Document of
The World Bank   FC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3020a-BsR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
November 11, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -       Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                 -      *Cr$43.68 (February 28, 1980)
Cr$1.00                 -       US$0.02289
Cr$1 million            -       US$22,894
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =           3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          =           0.62 mil2s
1 hectare (ha)        2  -            10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) =            100 ha = 247.1 acres = 0.386
sq. miles
1 cubic meter (i3)                    1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US
gallons
I kilogram (kg)           =           2.2 pounds
1 ton                    =            1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
*   Average Exchange Rates:
1975     1976     1977      1978     1979
US$1.00 : Cr$   8.128   10.786   14.138   18.317   27.581



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB              =    Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BEC            =    Banco do Estado do Ceara (Bank of the State of Ceara)
BNB             =    Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
BNCC           =    Banco Nacional do Credito Cooperativo (National
Cooperative Credit Bank)
CEPA-CE        =    Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Ceara
(Ceara-State Agricultural Planning Commission)
CIBRAZEM       =    Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento (Brazilian
Storage Company)
COBAL          =    Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian Food Company)
CODAGRO              Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuaria
(Ceara Agricultural Development Company)
DAER-CE         =    Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem do Ceara
(Ceara Highway Department)
DNOCS           =    Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra Secas (National
Department of Works Against Drought)
EMATER-CE       =    Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Ceara
(Ceara Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA         =    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brasilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER             Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPACE                Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara (Ceara Agricultural
Research Company)
FSESP          =    Fundacao Servicode Saude Publica (Foundation for
Public-Health Services)
FUNRURAL       =    Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural (Assistance Fund
for Rural Workers)
INCRA          =   -Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERCE         =    Instituto de Terras do Ceara (Ceara Land Institute)
PIASS           =    Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Interiorization of Health & Sanitation
Activities)
POLONORDESTE   =    Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
RPU                  Unidade Espacial de Planejamento (Regional Planning Unit)
SS                   Secretaria de Saude (State Secretariat of Health)
SOEC                 Superintendencia de Obras do Estado do Ceara (Ceara
Superintendency of Works)
SUDENE               Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN BRAZIL  ..........................     1
A.   The Sector in the Economy  nomy......... ..................  1
B.   Government Agricultural Policies ...       ...................  2
C.  Agriculture in Northeast Brazil .......................       2
D.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector .......... .    3
II.   THE STATE OF CEARA AND THE PLANNING SUB-REGIONS ....   ........   3
A.   The State .....       .......................................  3
Location and General Features ..............            3
Land Tenure and Use ..............................     4
Agricultural Production ...   .     .......................  4
Agricultural Services .....      ...................  *...  5
Social Infrastructure ............................     6
Physical Infrastructure        .........................  6
Rural  Development   . ............ .. . .   ..................  .  6
B.   Planning Sub-Regions .............. ...... ............. .   7
III.   THE EXECUTING AGENCIES ......    .......................          7
Institutions to be Engaged in the Project ........... .......     7
State Framework for Executing Special Programs in Ceara ....    8
IV.   THE PROJECT ................................................    9
A.   Origin .................. .................. ....................  9
B.   Brief Description .......................................    10
C.   Detailed Features    .....................................    11
Agricultural Services                .      .          11
Rural Extension        ....11
Agricultural Experimentation ......12
Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and
Purchase  .............    ....               13
Agricultural Cooperative Society Development     15
Social Infrastructure        .      . .16
Education and Vocational Training ..........    16
Health and Sanitation    ........     .......    18
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal and an appraisal mission
in December 1979 and February 1980, composed of Messrs. G. Ashkenazi, J. Coates,
P. Ram, Ms. D. M. Dowsett, Messrs. W. Matthey, B. Liese, Ms. J. de Regt (Bank)
and Messrs. E. Calderon, U. Dekel, E. Velez-Koppel, N. Fisher and Ms. M. Koch-Weser
(Consultants).



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Physical Infrastructure                         ........     20
Feeder and Access Roads                    ......       20
Small-scale Irrigation Schemes ......22
Marketing Activities .......23
Small-scale Non-agricultural Enterprises ........            24
Project Coordination and Management ..............           25
Activities Planned Parallel to the Project  .....            25
Credit .......0.....0.                                  25
Input Supply and Mechanization Services .....           26
Agroindustry Development   .................            27
Improved State Coordination of Special Rural
Development Programs                .. . . . ......        27
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING................................              28
Cos t Estimates ...................                                28
Financing                 .......  .                               28
Procurement ................&......                                30
Disbursements    ..       ........... ..*. .......... . . ..       31
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................                                31
Coordination and Management ..........................             31
Operating Agreements and Procedures ...................            33
Implementation Schedule ....                           ......      34
Accounts and Auditing ................ O- .............            34
VII.   PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES ...................    35
Production  - ..... . ...... . ... .......                         35
Demand .......  ...o...   ......   ...                             36
Marketing and Prices  ......           .....38
Small-scale Non-agricultural Enterprises
Production and Marketing  .................38
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS         ................   .........39
Illustrative Farm Types ..                                               39
On-farm Operations ........... .O..*. ................ ......            40
Producer   Income   ......... .................. . ....... **... O..     41
Non-farm Activities .............  .......                               42
IX.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS              .........      ..      43
Economic Rate of Return ...... ..............                            43
Employment .45
Project Risks ...........o.  ..*.  .......                               45
Fiscal Impact ......       ..       .............    46
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........    47



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 1:   Design Standards for Roads
ANNEX 2:   Annual Phasing of Project Costs
ANNEX 3:   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
ANNEX 4:   List of Executing amd Collaborating Agencies
ANNEX 5:   Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 6:   Project Coordination and Management Chart
ANNEX 7:   Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
ANNEX 8:   Agricultural Planning, Technical Coefficients and
Illustrative Farm Models
ANNEX 9:   Component Key Indicators
ANNEX 10: Planning Sub-Regions Main Characteristics
ANNEX 11: Related Documents Available in Project File
MAPS:  1.  Project Area and Existing Infrastructure No. 14875
2. Potential Land Use and Rainfall No. 14876
SUPPLEMENTARY STAFF WORKING PAPERS
1.     Project Area Summary Data
2.     Rural Extension
3.     Agricultural Experimentation
4.     Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Purchase
5.     Agricultural Credit
6.     Input Supply, Mechanization Services, and
Agroindustrial Development
7.     Cooperative Society Development
8.     Education and Vocational Training
9.     Health and Sanitation
10.    Feeder and Access Roads Development
11.    Small-scale Irrigation Schemes
12.    Marketing Facilities and Services
13.    Marketing Channels, Storage and Prices
14.    Small-scale Non-agricultural Enterprises
15.    Agricultural Development and Production Technology
16.    Producer Income, Cash Flow Analysis and Employment
17.    Economic Analysis
18.    Project Coordination and Management






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be a very
important sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force
numbers 12.8 million, or 39.5% of the economically active population, and
43.1 million ha (out of a national territory of 8.5 million km ) are in
agricultural use. About 56% of Brazil's merchandise exports are agricul-
tural and they account for more than 50% of the country's export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee, orange juice, and cane
sugar, and the third largest producer of soybeans. It is also a major
supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil and sisal.
1.02      The most important products for the domestic market include manioc,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy
products, poultry, beef and pork; coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton, and cocoa
are also important for the domestic market. With the exception of wheat,
Brazil is largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although some
staples such as beans are imported seasonally. More than half of the wheat
consumed in Brazil is still imported.
1.03      From 1967 to 1974, the agricultural sector performed well in meeting
domestic demand for food and fiber as well as in supplying a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse weather
conditions in three of the seven years. Farm output increased 4.2% over 1975/76,
an increase due more to productivity gains with livestock (12.2%) than crops
(0.4%, though 9% if coffee is excluded). Until 1978, the value of agricultural
output increased steadily, more as a result of an expansion of production area
than of improved productivity. In 1978, agricultural output declined by 2%,
largely due to a severe drought in the south resulting in substantial crop
losses. In 1979, the agricultural sector showed a 3.5% growth rate, compared
to 6.5% for the industrial sector and 6% for the economy as a whole. Despite
increased attention to productivity and increasing market integration, sub-
sistence and semi-commercial production and use of rudimentary technologies
continue to be widespread, particularly in the Northeast, North and Center-
West. Because of the large rural population (para. 1.05), the agricultural
sector remains a substantial source of labor for the other sectors of the
economy.



- 2 -
B.   Government Agricultural Policies
1.04      Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-84). Major policy objectives
include: (a) increased basic staple and export production, with special
emphasis on small and medium producers; (b) the creation of an integrated
system of production, storage, transport and marketing; (c) the expansion
of agricultural research activities and the increased use of modern inputs
and appropriate technology; and (d) the decentralization of agricultural
policy execution, increasing the participation of the private sector and
state and local governments. Recent measures have tended to confirm the
government's commitment toward stimulating agricultural production and
raising rural incomes, particularly among small producers. These measures
have included: (a) the strengthening of the research and extension services
with a new emphasis on the needs of small farmers; (b) the support of special
regional programs, such as the Development Program for Integrated Areas in
the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), that focus on poorer regions and small-scale
farmers; and (c) the announcement of a series of actions (pacote agricola)
in May 1979, which included increased access to institutional credit. How-
ever, Brazil's high inflation rate and large public sector deficit during
the late 1970s are forcing the government to restrain public expenditure and
interest rate subsidies. In December 1979, a new economic package was
announced, which lowered the interest rate subsidy on agricultural credit.
The package also removed export subsidies and included a 30% devaluation of
the cruzeiro. These measures, partially aimed at stimulating agricultural
export growth, and introduction of a large-scale alcohol production program
demanding increased cultivation of sugarcane, demonstrate new economic
priorities.
C. Agriculture in Northeast Brazil
1.05      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about 35
million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas. The population has recently
been growing at a net rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region
has a semi-arid climate with periodic serious droughts and is made up of exten-
sive areas of poor soils. Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agri-
cultural region, with 40% of Brazil's agriculturally employed population and a
major share of the national production of cocoa, cotton, manioc, beans and
sugar. In 1979, about 30% of the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast.
Though some crops such as sugarcane are grown predominantly on large farms,
virtually all food and industrial crops also are produced widely by small
farmers; many crops are mainly produced by small farmers. Their technology is
unsophisticated and yields are poor. The difficulties facing them include lack
of credit for working capital or investment, limited agricultural extension
services, market isolation and weak linkages with the regional economy, in-
security of land titles and, in some areas, a difficult physical environment.
These problems are compounded by a highly skewed pattern of land ownership.
For instance, less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account
for 40% of the area, whereas in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force
own no land at all. Among northeastern states, the proportion of land holders
who own less than 10 ha ranges from about 49% in Ceara to nearly 88% in Maranhao.



- 3 -
1.06      Various Government programs have been directed at speeding economic
development in the Northeast. The Government operates a special agency, the
Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE), and a special development bank
for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB). Substantial fiscal
and monetary incentives have been made available over the past two decades for
both industry and agriculture. Programs to generate jobs in the industrial
sector have not, however, kept pace with population increases, and continuous
population movement from rural to urban areas has been coupled with consider-
able movement to the more industrialized Center-South and to the Center-West
of Brazil. Prior to the mid-1970's Government programs directed to the rural
population of the Northeast concentrated on public works, with substantial
efforts in drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. More recently, how-
ever, efforts have also been initiated to strengthen the institutions offering
the support services required to develop more productive farming systems.
Such efforts are the POLONORDESTE program (which the Bank has helped finance),
Sertanejo, and DNOCS and CODEVASF programs. POLONORDESTE is a wide-ranging
program aimed at raising living standards through a series of area based inte-
grated development projects where a comprehensive range of measures is intro-
duced. The Sertanejo project operates in semi-arid zones with a view to reduc-
ing the vulnerability of specific areas to drought. DNOCS activities are intended
to create permanent employment in drought areas through irrigation systems
(see paras. 3.02-3.05 for further description of the programs as they operate
in the state of Ceara). CODEVASF, a government-owned company, is in charge of
the development of the Sao Francisco Valley, and does not operate in Ceara.
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 19 loans, totalling US$693.7 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$125.3 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million, for
livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for
US$40 million for agricultural research; one for US$100 million to improve
agricultural extension services; and twelve totalling US$349.7 million for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, nine of which
are located in the Northeast, including the Ibiapaba Rural Development Project
in Ceara. Five additional agricultural and rural development operations are
currently at a relatively advanced state of preparation: two rural development
projects and an agricultural credit project in the Northeast; a second agri-
cultural research project and a Northwest agricultural development project.
Additional agricultural and rural development projects are under consideration
for possible future Bank financing. Completion reports have been issued for
the grain storage and the two livestock development projects.
II. THE STATE OF CEARA AND THE PLANNING SUB-REGIONS
A. The State
Location and General Features
2.01      Ceara has a total population (1980) estimated at about 1.9 million
of which about 55% are rural, and a land area of about 146,800 km . It is the



third largest state in population and fourth in land area among Northeast
states. The metropolitan area of the capital city, Fortaleza, which is
situated on the coast, has a population of over one million and accounts for
the bulk of the state's light industry. The characteristics of the state's
various sub-regions are described in some detail in Annex 10. A great part of
the area of Ceara (about 37%) could be classified as flat to slightly undulat-
ing, 29% as slightly undulating to steeply undulating; 24% as steep slopes;
and the rest (10%) as having a variable topography. Average annual precipita-
tion ranges from more than 1,600 mm in the uplands to about 660 mm in the
semi-arid "sertao" regions; or from excessive, during the four wettest months
of the year, to very deficient (see Map No. 14876). A relatively wide range
of soil types are found in the state; these soils may be classified from
fertile in the southern, or Cariri Region to relatively infertile in the
coastal, or Litoral Region (see Map No. 14876).
2.02      Some 29% of the population live in small towns and cities and the
remaining urban population is concentrated in metropolitan Fortaleza on the
coast. The average per capita income in 1975 in the rural areas was estimated
at US$160, one of the lowest in the Northeast. The services sector accounts
for nearly 60% of the state GDP, agriculture for 27% and industry for the re-
maining 13%. The traditional industries include food processing, textiles
and clothing and the more recent ones include some non-metallic mineral, metal
and chemical processing. However, agriculture is still the main economic
activity in Ceara; in 1975, more than one million people worked in agriculture
(65% of the state labor force), and about 70% of them were temporary workers.
Land Tenure and Use
2.03      Distribution of agricultural land by farm size is similar to  the
average pattern found elsewhere in the Northeast. Of a total 304,000 farmers
in Ceara, about 278,000 (91%) have less than 100 ha, and only about 108,000
(39%) of these are land owners, while about 170,000 are nonowner producers.
Nevertheless, these small farmers are producing, on about 24% of the arable
land of the state, roughly 60% of the basic foods and 50% of the primary mate-
rials for industry, and they represent about 70% of the rural labor force.
Farms with less than 10 ha dedicate about 49% of their total area to agricul-
ture, these percentages falling sharply in larger farms.
Agricultural Production
2.04      While agricultural potential is reasonably good along the higher
rainfall sections of the coastal belt, in several humid highland areas and
in a few river valleys, more than half (51%) of the state's land area falls
within the drought-prone "sertao" or semi-arid zone. Fruits, beef, cotton,
manioc, beans, corn, and sugar, in that order, are presently the state's
most important agricultural products in terms of value. In recent years,
cashew nuts, coffee and various fruits have also been introduced on an in-
creasing scale, and the coastal fishing industry has expanded. Production
details, for 1979, are as follows:



-5-
Quantity of          Value of           % of
Area            Production         Production          Total
Crop        (ha '000)        (000' tons)        (Cr$ million)       Value
Cotton           1,181.8           191.4               3,217.0           12.7
Bananas             36.0           144.0                 541.4            2.1
Beans              342.0            104.8              1,691.5            6.7
Corn               408.1           172.2                 888.6            3.5
Manioc             176.0         1,760.0               2,428.8            9.6
Sugar Cane          54.1            41.3                  19.2            0.1
Fruit Trees        125.3           637.2               8,920.8           35.2
Beef                 -             100.0               7,608.1           30.1
TOTAL       2,323.3             -               25,315.4           100.0
Overall, the performance of the agricultural sector in Ceara during the last
decade has been weak. Although growth in food production exceeds slightly the
rate of population growth, the state is importing increasingly large quantities
of sugar, rice, meat, wheat flour, beans and other products. In addition,
yields of various important crops, such as cotton (which represents about
13% of the total value of agricultural production), have been declining.
Agricultural Services
2.05      Agricultural extension services are provided by the state Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Enterprise (EMATER-CE), which with a total
staff of about 830 is estimated to currently provide some form of assistance
to about 85,600 farmers. Three federal banks -- the Bank of Brazil (BB), the
Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB) and the National Cooperative Credit Bank
(BNCC) -- and one State bank, the Bank of Ceara (BEC), supply rural credit to
the state's farmers. In 1976-79, they supplied 95% of the total rural credit
in Ceara. About 33% of recent rural credit has been long term for investment
purposes and 67% was short-term production financing. About 43% of the credit
went for for crops, 26% for livestock, 31% for agroindustrial installations,
marketing and miscellaneous needs. Government operated input supply and
mechanization (through CODAGRO), marketing (through CEASA), and storage
(through CIBRAZEM), services are available scattered throughout the state, but
their total impact is relatively small.  Forty-seven agricultural cooperative
societies, of which 24 deal only with cotton processing and marketing, function
in the state; most of these cooperative societies are in poor condition
although they receive some technical assistance from EMATER-CE, the National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), the state Organization
of Cooperatives (OCEC) and the Central Cooperative Society (COCENTRAL).  The
state's newly founded Land Institute (ITERCE) is just beginning to get organized
in order to carry out land cadastral surveys, titling, and purchase for
subsequent redistribution. The State Agricultural Research Enterprise (EPACE)
is in charge of 12 well located agricultural research stations. Research work
is mainly concentrated in field crops but some experiments are also carried
out on fruit crops and animal husbandry. The National Agricultural Research
Enterprise (EMBRAPA) also operates part of its national research network in
the State and additional research is managed by the Federal University of
Ceara, the Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA) and the Brazilian Coffee Institute
(IBC).



-6-
Social Infrastructure
2.06      Health services are very poorly developed and are characterized by
a relatively high infant and child mortality rate (127/1,000), and a wide
incidence of endemic diseases. Health services are mainly available to the
urban population. The water supply system is also very unsatisfactory and
only about 35% of the urban population are connected to water supply services.
There are no sewerage facilities in small towns and cities, and only 5% of the
population of Fortaleza is connected to a central sewerage system. Education
facilities are still more readily available to the urban population than to
the rural population, and there is a shortage of schools and of qualified
teachers. Only 45% of the people over 15 years of age are literate. The
share of school age children (7-14 years old) actually attending school is
only 45%, and about 36% in rural areas.
Physical Infrastructure
2.07      The state system of main roads, secondary roads, access tracks and
federal paved highways totaled some 40,000 km in 1978. Most of the secondary
and tertiary roads are poorly maintained and, being without proper drainage,
many are impassable during the rainy season. Some 1,435 km of largely an-
tiquated railway lines are also in use in the State. Postal and telegraph
services exist in each municipality. Electrical transmission lines cross
the state and bring electricity to the municipal centers and a part of the
small towns in rural areas.
Rural Development
2.08      In the past, little attention was paid to the State's small farmers.
However, the worsening situation in the agricultural sector and the increase
in rural outmigration coupled with changing national policies emphasizing the
importance of small-scale agriculture, have recently focused more attention
on small farmers. The eight state's planning sub-regions have been included
as priority areas of the POLONORDESTE program. The Sertanejo program is
operating in six centers and DNOCS activities already encompass about 8,000
ha, with some 1,650 participating families. Todate, however, the Bank-financed
First Rural Development Project in Ceara, (Ibiapaba), initiated in 1976, is
the state's most comprehensive effort aimed specifically at improving economic
and social conditions for the rural poor. By the end of its implementation
period, it is hoped that the project will have benefitted some 5,800 small
farmers. Agricultural credit and cooperative society support components had
relatively slow starts, and the delays in Federal funding have been chronic.
However, implementation is presently advancing satisfactorily. Already some
4,150 farmers (of which about 2,950 are nonowners) are participating in rural
extension activities; 85 extension agents work in the area; some 26 new health
posts, 46 primary schools, 410 km of roads and 500 km of electricity distribu-
tion lines have been built in the project area. Overall, more farmers than
anticipated participate in several of the project activities, and substantial
progress is being made in the majority of the components. The impact of the
project is being felt all over the area. Yield improvements are, for some
crops, higher than expected, and farm management improvements are being
introduced by the agricultural extension service. The Project Coordination



-7-
- 7 -
Unit in CEPA-CE, and the Project Field Coordinator are leading project execu-
tion and are gradually becoming more effective in identifying and tackling
coordination and execution problems. Some officials are paying close attention
to project development, and they provide adequate support to the Technical
Unit.  Partially based on the experience with the Ibiapaba Projeci.  high
priority has been assigned to the proposed Ceara Rural Development Project.
Furthermore, special efforts were made in the design and preparation of the
proposed project to solve the main problems (such as project management
capacity and funding) encountered during the implementation of the Ibiapaba
project.
B. Planning Sub-Regions
2.09       The state government has divided Ceara into eight sub-regions, or
Regional Planning Units (RPU), to facilitate and better focus its rural devel-
opment programming. The physiographic and socio-economic characteristics that
distinguish the eight RPU's are briefly described in Annex -10, with a summary
of key comparative indicators following:
Regiona. nlLanAis Units, Comparative Indicators
Population        Farm Operators Average Annual
Area          No.  Z of   %    %      No.  % of Precip. Temp.
Ki2    % of State ('000) StateRPural Urban  ('000) State (mm)  (CO)
1. Litoral                26,000    18      2,362   40   32   68   76,310   25  1,080  27
2. Ibiapaba                4,800     3        207    3   81  19   17,740    6  1,210  18
3. Baturite                3,800     2        190    3   81   19   14,160    5  1,170  20
4. Baixo Jaguaribe        11,900     8        329    6   74  26   20,960    7    865  27
5. Sertoes Cearenses      33,800    23        918   16   68   32   50,820   17   805  28
6. Sertoes do QuiXeramobim
e Medio Jaguaribe    27,500    19        590   10   77   23  40,000   13    760  27
7. Sertoes dos Inhamuns
e Salgado            21,500    15        562   10   71   29   34,630   11    735  27
8. Cariri                 17,500    12        732   12   61   39  49,430   16   8$0  20
-_ SOTAL                146,800    100     5,890  100   55  45  304,050  100       _    _
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
Institutions to be Engaged in the Project
3.01       As the proposed project embodies a state-wide planning framework,
many existing agencies would be involved in yearly project planning and im-
plementation. Agencies providing development services in rural areas -- such



- 8 -
as the banks, BB, BNB and BNCC; the extension service, EMATER-CE; the research
company, EPACE; the Organization of Cooperatives (OCEC); and the State Secre-
tariat of Planning and Coordination (SEPLAN), Education (SE), and Health (SS);
and the State Highway Department (DAER) -- would be directly involved in the
project. Other agencies such as the State Input Supply Company (CODAGRO), the
Federal Storage Company (CIBRAZEM), the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC),
and the Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA), and many others would be indirectly
involved. The effectiveness of these agencies in rural development has been
hampered by limited resources and/or the fact that orientation toward inte-
grated rural development is just emerging in the state. The proposed proj-
ect is meant to strengthen these agencies and increase their effectiveness.
State Framework for Executing Special Programs in Ceara
3.02      The Federal Government has initiated a number of special rural
programs for the Northeast in recent years. The main programs which are being
executed in Ceara are concerned either with areas of high drought risk or
with areas of major agricultural development potential. They include the
POLONORDESTE (Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast);
Northeast Irrigation; Sertanejo and PRODECOR (Development for Rural Communi-
ties) programs.
3.03      The POLONORDESTE program is a wide ranging program aimed at raising
living standards through a series of area based integrated rural development
projects. Priority areas of special need or high agricultural potential were
selected and a variety of measures have begun to be introduced, encompassing
physical and social service infrastructure and agricultural development ser-
vices. The main target groups are the landless, small and medium landowners.
POLONORDESTE works through existing institutions with a view to creating the
conditions for self sustaining development activity. Prior to the initiation
of the proposed project, six regions, which cover about 70% of Ceara, had been
included as priority areas of POLONORDESTE. Projects have, however, been
initiated so far in only four of the areas. The projects receive general
guidance from a State Council involving all concerned agencies. Management
and day-to-day coordination, as well as monitoring and evaluation, are carried
out by a special Technical Unit within the State Agricultural Planning Com-
mission (CEPA-CE). In 1979, over 9,000 small farmers received agricultural
extension and about 6,500 received credit or advances against production in
the POLONORDESTE projects in Ceara. This was significantly below planned
levels, as was the development of health and education facilities. In 1979-80,
some US$16.0 million equivalent were spent, and from January 1976 to September
1979, less than 40% of planned expenditure was applied. Overall, the relatively
scarce human resources and limited institutional coordination and capacity
have been important constraints for such an innovative program.
3.04      The Northeast Irrigation Program is intended to raise production and
incomes and create permanent employment in drought affected areas. Irrigation
systems from dams are developed and family production units organized. Such
units typically have 2-5 hectares of irrigated land and, on average, 3.5 per-
manent jobs are created, including 2.5 taken by family labor. Nine areas have
so far been covered by this program in Ceara, and overall irrigated area was
about 8,000 ha with some 1,650 families participating in 1977. The program
is being executed by the National Department for Work Against Droughts (DNOCS).



- 9 -
The irrigated area is still only a fraction of the almost 56,000 hectares ori-
ginally planned for construction by 1979. In financial terms it has been the
largest of the special programs, and in 1978 about US$18.9 million equivalent
were allocated for activities in Ceara.
3.05      The Sertanejo Program is operating in 6 centers in the semi-arid
zone, with a view to raising agricultural production and incomes, and reducing
the vulnerability of the area to drought. In addition to supporting irrigated
production, it encourages the production of existing and new drought resistant
crops, including fodder; the introduction of soil and water conservation mea-
sures; and the improvement of the commercial and cooperative systems. The
main target groups are small and medium landowners. Each project center has
a team of technicians responsible either to DNOCS or to the state Government.
A special Sertanejo credit line has been available to individual farmers for
investment and production purposes. In the two years to March 1979, less than
US$0.5 million had been applied, about half the planned expenditure.
3.06      The PRODECO0  program is also concerned with the improvement of
living conditions in rural areas. It has more of a community development bias
than the other special programs, but is still concerned with the promotion of
productive activities in crop, small livestock and fish production. The main
target groups are the landless and small landowners, and every development
proposal must originally be put forward by a community, and then be implemented
with guidance from the PRODECOR technical team of the Ministry of Agriculture,
which works in close collaboration with the community. In 1978, about US$1.3
million equivalent was spent on 319 projects throughout Ceara involving 21,865
families -- about 36% of the funding provided by PRODECOR and 64% by the com-
munities themselves.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
4.01      Ceara, which is the fourth largest state in the Northeast, has about
6.9% of Ehis region's area and 16.1% of its population with almost 35 inhabi-
tants/km . Its annual rate of population increase is higher than the North-
eastern and Brazilian averages. The state is relatively underdeveloped, lack-
ing adequate physical and service infrastructure. However, large areas have
natural advantages and related development potential. For example: (a) Ceara
is bordered by four states (Piaui, Pernambuco, Paraiba and Rio Grande do Norte)
which with Ceara's own urban and rural population provide a large market for
Ceara produce; (b) the state's road system is, relative to other neighboring
states, well developed; (c) the state has several areas with still undeveloped
potential for cash crops such as fruit and annual cotton; and (d) there are a
large number of small farmers. Therefore, in its search for ways to expand
food supply and raw materials for industrial use, the new state government,
which came to office in March 1979, concluded that agricultural development
programs should focus mainly on small farmers. Accordingly, II PLAMEG, the
State Development Plan for 1979-83 was prepared with predominant attention
aimed at raising the output and incomes of the small farmer segment of the



- 10 -
rural population. After the new Government came to office, the state requested
Bank collaboration in project identification, preparation and financing.
Several Bank preparation assistance missions followed and the project was
appraised in January 1980.
B. Brief Description
4.02      What distinguishes the proposed Ceara Rural Development Project from
its predecessors in Ceara and other Bank-financed projects in Northeast Brazil
is the fact that it has been prepared within the framework of a statewide plan-
ning exercise. In Ceara, as in all other Northeastern states, various federal
and state programs have been planned and implemented without an overall longer
term perspective or strategy, or without a clear definition of each state's
relative assets and constraints. The Bank agreed to the state-wide planning
approach for the proposed project in order to try to: (i) assure that Special
Programs are devised within a general framework of state-wide needs and
priorities; (ii) better assure that the limited natural, human and financial
resources be used for top priority tasks; (iii) avoid competition between
programs for scarce managerial skills; and (iv) assure that these programs
complement each other instead of overlap. The some 278,000 small farmers of
the state would provide the potential "target population" for the project.
It is estimated that about 20% of them (or about 60,000 farmers) would benefit
directly from the production oriented components of the project over a five-year
period. These direct participants would be limited to operators of farms of
less than 50 ha in the areas of Ibiapaba, Baturite, Litoral, Cariri, and Baixo
Jaguaribe and to farms of less than 100 ha in the agriculturally less attractive
regions of the Sertoes Cearenses, Quixeramobim e Medio Jaguaribe, and Inhamuns
e Salgado. Most of the rural population of the state, or more than two
million people, would benefit in some way through the project improved physical
infrastructure, and about half a million people through the social infrastruc-
ture and other services that would be provided. The proposed project would
begin by concentrating activities in areas with the highest development
potential of the state, often where sufficient basic infrastructure already
exists and especially where the spill-over effect would be higher. Because of
existing limiting factors, the project would mainly include activities designed
to set in motion specific actions meant to break rural development bottlenecks
and resolve difficulties that impede rural development, rather than providing
the entire range of production and social services and infrastructure in every
part of the state. The approach used has been to define broad (though clear)
development targets for a five-year period, with greater detail by component
for at least the first year of the project (though some components have been
planned in detail for the entire five year project). Subsequent detailing of
the broad development targets would be taken into consideration yearly, and
the program should be able to adapt itself to changing necessities.
4.03      Overall, the project aims at:
(a) increasing productivity and incomes, broadening employment oppor-
tunities and generally improving the standard of living of 60,000
farm families and of about 1,100 operators of small-scale non-
agricultural enterprises these being the estimated direct
beneficiaries of the project;



- 11 -
(b) raising agricultural and rural industry production in Ceara to cater
for local and export markets;
(c) developing further the technical and administrative capacity of
institutions involved in agriculture and rural development in the
state, and encouraging the development of distinct small farmer
orientation within these institutions; and
(d) serve as a "pilot" operation to test possibilities of planning
and implementing state-wide rural development programs in other
states of the Northeast.
4.04      The proposed project would seek to achieve these objectives, over a
five-year implementation period, by providing:
(a) agricultural extension, experimentation, and land surveying, titling
and purchase services;
(b) cooperative society development for about 12 cooperative societies;
(c) social infrastructure, with expansion of education and vocational
training services and health and sanitation facilities and services;
(d)  physical infrastructure, through an expansion of the o intenance
and upgrading of feeder and access roads, the development of
marketing facilities and of small irrigation schemes;
(e) technical assistance to small-scale non-agricultural enterprises; and
(f) project coordination and management, including administration,
monitoring and evaluation and special studies.
4.05      A Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) would be responsi-
ble for project management, monitoring and evaluation. Individual project
components would be executed by existing line agencies under the general
guidance and coordination of the PCMU. Federal, state and private agencies
and municipal governments would be involved as direct executors or major col-
laborators in execution. Where implementation/management skills of executing
agencies are weak, they would be boosted by the project, the institutional
strengthening thus having significance beyond the project. Each executing
agency would have a project liaison officer responsible for project matters
and relations with the PCMU. The project's main objective of increasing the
incomes of the 60,000 direct farmer beneficiaries and small-scale non-
agricultural enterprises would be achieved through an increase in productivity
supported by the provision of improved services.
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Services
4.06      Rural Extension.  Since rural extension is essential for the pro-
motion of improved technology and credit, EMATER-CE, the state Technical



- 12 -
Assistance and Rural Extension Agency, would be expanded and strengthened
under the project by increasing the number of field offices and the number of
extension agents who would maintain direct contacts with the project partici-
pants. The number of local extension offices would be increased from the
current 99 to about 130 during the project, and the extension staff serving
small farmers would expand from 79 agricultural technicians to 331, and from
39 social extensionists to 165. Activities to be carried out under the proj-
ect are incremental to and within the overall national rural extension policy
defined in the Bank-assisted Agricultural Extension Project financed with Loan
1568-BR. The proceeds of that loan are being used to finance some incremental
staff, vehicles and other materials and equipment, all of which were taken
into consideration while planning the additional rural extension component
activities of the proposed project.
4.07      Based on the previous EMATER-CE experience, and especially that
gained in the Bank supported Ibiapaba project, some modification in the struc-
ture and methodology of the local extension system would be introduced. For
example, a state-wide specialization of function would be gradually developed.
Agricultural extensionists (middle level agricultural technicians) would be
trained to provide, on a fixed schedule of periodic visits, agronomic advice
to groups of 15-25 project farmers organized around contact farmers and demon-
stration fields. Through these visits and demonstrations, agricultural exten-
sionists would promote the adoption of improved production techniques (tech-
nical packages) developed by the extension and research services. The agri-
cultural extensionists would work with lower-level field assistants, on an
experimental basis, in two regions (RPUs) only, and in all regions would be
backed by subject matter specialists (higher level agronomists with specialized
expertise) who would also supervise and coordinate the diffusion of new produc-
tion technology. Farm management and credit extensionists would assist farmers
in farm management, and in preparing and processing credit proposals. Social
extensionists would also work with contact families in close collaboration with
the agricultural extensionists, but would focus primarily on nutrition, health,
education and community development. Each agricultural extensionist would
eventually work with 8 to 10 contact farmers, (through whom he or she would
contact 180-220 farmers); each farm management and credit extensionist would
work with about 300 farmers, while each social extensionist would work with
about 6 groups of 40 farm families each, or a total of 240 families. In their
group work approach, extensionists would get the support of a sociologist who
would help them take local social factors and leadership patterns into account
to enhance the effectiveness of their work. Intensive staff pre- and in-service
training and farmers' short courses would also be included in the agricultural
extension program.
4.08      Items to be financed under the project include salaries and expenses
for incremental staff, equipment and vehicles, incremental operating costs
(transportation, materials and supplies); establishment and operating costs
of demonstration plots on selected farms; staff training costs and costs of
farmers' short courses. Total project agricultural extension costs for five
years would amount to about US$25.7 million (21.5% of project's baseline costs).
This would be over and above the maintenance of funding from other sources
(including Loan 1568-BR) for existing extension services, such funding amount-
ing to an estimated US$8.7 million equivalent per year.
4.09      Agricultural Experimentation.  The state Agricultural Research Company,
EPACE, would be the component executing agency. It would, under the project,



- 13 -
reorient and enlarge its on-going agricultural research and experimentation
program in order to support and guide proposed agricultural development. The
research would concentrate on the testing and adapting of improved agronomic
practices for individual crops and trees and for different farming systems
involving crops grown in consortia. During the five year project, some 150
additional experiments would be carried out on 40 different production systems.
Some of the new experiments would be implemented on the existing four experi-
mental stations (see map 14875); others would be sited on land owned by
project participating farmers, and carried out in close cooperation with the
agricultural extension staff. EPACE and EMATER-CE will jointly provide
training to the extension agents for planning and implementation of the
extension service demonstration fields. These activities would be over and
above those planned and being implemented under the Agriculture Research I
Project being supported from Loan 1249-BR, which include civil works, farm
and laboratory equipment, consultants' services, fellowships and partial
financing of more basic agriculture research at selected national and state
research station. In Ceara, these include the National Center for Research on
Sheep and Goats at Sobral and the state stations doing adaptive research at
Quixada and Barbalha.
4.10      The Litoral research station, located in Pacajus, and serving also
the RPUs of Baturite and Baixo Jaguaribe, would carry out experiments with
sugar cane, bananas, manioc, vegetables, corn, beans, sorghum, fruits and
cashew. The Ibiapaba research station located in Tiangua will carry out expe-
riments with peanuts, sugar cane, manioc, vegetables, beans, fruits and coffee.
The Central Sertao research station located in Quixada and serving the RPUs of
Sertoes Cearenses, Sertoes de Quixeramobim e Medio Jaguaribe, and Sertoes dos
Inhamuns e Salgado, would carry out additional experiments with cotton, corn,
beans, sorghum, sheep, goats and cows. The experiments related to livestock
would focus on some small animals suitable to local mixed production family
farms. The Cariri research station located in Barbalha, would carry out addi-
tional experiments with cotton, sugar cane, corn, manioc, beans and sorghum.
Also, some of the research stations would provide high quality fruit crop
material for propagation, and would assist the Secretariat of Agriculture in
establishing an efficient nursery inspection program. A central nursery, would
also be established by EPACE in the Litoral research station and would produce
during the project's first five years some 272,000 high quality, disease and
pest free, saplings of citrus, coconuts, and soursop. The saplings would be
supplied to project participants intending to expand their fruit plantations.
Returns from sale of saplings would commence in the third year, and from year
six income would be sufficient to fully cover operating costs as well as to
begin to recuperate investment costs.
4.11      Items to be financed under the project include construction of two
storage units of 2,000 t. each, equipment for sorting and cleaning of seeds,
materials, and incremental salaries and operating costs for carrying out the
incremental research work and for producing saplings. Total component costs
during project life amount to about US$1.9 million (1.6% of project's baseline
costs). This would be over and above the maintenance of funding for on-going
agricultural research in Ceara, such funding amounting to an estimated US$1.5
million equivalent.
4.12      Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Purchase.  The pro-
posed cadastral and land surveys and land titling subcomponents would aim at



- 14 -
clarifying the occupancy situation of about 300,000 ha of public lands and at
legalizing the land tenure situation by providing land titles to about 6,550
farmers, each occupying less than 100 ha. Since current cadastral data, a key
input in the titling process, are scant in much of the state, and in order to
enable the initiation of titling activities, the cadastral review would be
carried out prior to land surveying and titling. Lack of definitive title is
a serious constraint to farmers in developing permanent increases in their
income. Especially for small farmers, who have little political or economic
power, security of tenure increases the incentive to invest, and facilitates
access to production services, particularly credit. The component field work
would also enable ITERCE to advise the Project Coordination and Management
Unit (PCMU) on problems encountered by landless farmers in their rental
or sharecropping arrangements, and on possible improvements which the project
might subsequently promote. The titling activity would include the promotion
of this service among small farmers, the identification and listing of target
farmers, the measuring and mapping of the occupied lands, and the undertaking
of the legal and administrative steps necessary to grant titles. For the
execution of this subcomponent, the present staff of ITERCE would be gradually
expanded and trained, but specific tasks such as topographical surveys would
be contracted with specialized firms.
4.13      The other important activity to be carried out under this component
would be land purchase by INCRA in collaboration with ITERCE and subsequent
settlement of these lands by non-owners or very small owners, often counting on
the active participation of cooperatives or project-organized groups of small
farmers. Some 100,000 ha would be acquired over the five-year project life,
benefitting an estimated 3,700 farming families living already in the area of,
or actually on, the land purchased. The target, through quite significant in
absolute terms, is a relatively modest first step in a state of over 14
million ha. Overall coordination and supervision of the land distribution
settlement scheme would be done by the PCMU through its Field Operations
Section. The detailed planning and design would be done by the state Agricul-
tural Planning Commission, CEPA-CE. Because the actual execution of the
settlement component would be the responsibility mainly of the existing
cooperative societies, a Settlement Coordination Unit would be established in
each cooperative. The settlement program requires the participation of
several institutions such as ITERCE, INCRA, CEPA-CE, the cooperative societies
and EMATER-CE. Therefore, to avoid delays during the planning and implementa-
tion process, the participating institutions would enter into agreements
clearly setting out respective responsibilities and component procedures.
Specific lands for settlement have not yet been selected and, consequently,
particular settlement schemes have not been identified. However, general
settlement policies have been agreed upon. INCRA has been carrying out
settlement projects in Ceara during recent years and detailed settlement
procedures exist. Also, general settlement policies for project participants
have been agreed upon.
4.14      Total component costs during project life would amount to about
US$21.9 million (18.4% of baseline costs) of which about US$8.5 million for
land purchase (not subject to Bank disbursement). The project would finance
the incremental staffing, operating and maintenance costs of the component
including costs of establishing field offices, of contracted surveying services,



- 15 -
and of vehicles and materials needed. In the case of the settlement subcompon-
ent, the project costs include the purchase of land (financed with local funds),
and the settlement design, coordination and supervision costs. On-farm develop-
ment (including land clearing costs and purchase of light farm equipment and
materials for housing) would be financed with the credit which, though not
part of the project, would be extended to project participants (para 4.40-
4.43). During negotiations, assurances were received that sufficient resources
(about US$8.5 million during the five-year project period) would be made
available for land purchase. The provision to the Bank of the signed agree-
ment between the state, ITERCE, INCRA, and other agencies participating in the
component is a condition for disbursement for the component.
4.15      Agricultural Cooperative Society Development.  There are 66 coop-
erative societies in Ceara, of which 47 are agricultural cooperatives with a
relatively wide range of activities including onlending of credit, marketing
of produce and input supply. Most of the cooperative societies specialize in
one or two activities and only a very few are active in all fields. Coop-
eratives receive promotion, organization, and accounting advice from specia-
lized agents of EMATER-CE, INCRA, COCENTRAL and OCEC. As part of the project,
the state intends to reinforce this support, and through this help increase
the small farmer participation in about 12 of the 47 agricultural cooperative
societies. The three cooperative societies to participate in this activity
during the first year have already been selected. The final objectives of
project support would be to develop greater financial and managerial self-
sufficiency in the cooperatives as a mechanism for improving services to small
farmers and, where cooperative society strength and demand warrant, to expand
the range of their services such as participating in the coordination of land
purchase and settlement activities.
4.16      OCEC will act as the executing agency and will also coordinate
activities of other institutions participating in this component. Execution
of the component would be accompanied by intensified coordination by the
Secretariat of Agriculture of the activities of the various agencies currently
associated with cooperative development, seed production and marketing of
inputs and produce including (in addition to OCEC and EMATER-CE), the National
Cooperative Credit Bank (BNCC), INCRA, COCENTRAL, CODAGRO, and others. The
proposed development plan will consist of the following distinct activities:
(a) Field study and preparation of detailed development plans, this
work to be undertaken during the first year of project implemen-
tation to confirm criteria and select cooperatives to benefit under
the project and to formulate the cooperative-specific development
plans. A specialized local or foreign consulting firm would be
contracted to carry out this work;
(b) Technical and managerial assistance to be provided to a selected
group of 12 agricultural cooperative societies. Assistance would
concentrate in the areas of general and financial management (in-
cluding accounting), and co perative education to farmer members,
geared to promote their active participation in cooperative acti-
vities. Four teams consisting each of a field cooperative exten-
sionist, a management consultant and a financial (accounting)
advisor will help strengthen these cooperatives over a period
of 2 to 3 years each;



- 16 -
(c) Production of improved seeds by cooperative members who demonstrate
willingness and capacity to introduce improved production techno-
logies. EMATER-CE and OCEC would provide intensive technical
assistance to farmers in the agronomic and managerial aspects of
seed production, processing and marketing. Farmers would finance
production costs with credit, while the project would provide the
necessary sorting machinery and storage facilities. About 8,300
hectares of crops would be planted and seed production in the
fifth year of the project is estimated at some 7,565 tons; and
(d) Produce marketing and input supply facilities to cooperatives
having a predominance of small farmer members and willing and
able to establish and manage communal storage and warehousing
facilities. The main purpose of this activity would be to reduce
the dependence on existing market middlemen and to help increase
the share of the final product price going to the small farmers.
A total of 20 marketing posts (costing around US$7,000 each)
would be established by 12 cooperative societies and 3 to 6
farmer groups.
4.17      Total component costs during project life would amount to about
US$1.5 million (1.3% of baseline costs). The project would finance consultants
services; salaries and travel costs, during the project period, for the incre-
mental field staff working with the selected cooperatives (some of this staff
would be seconded to the cooperative society and gradually paid for, according
to a pre-arranged schedule, by the society concerned); construction, minor
equipment and vehicle purchase; costs of pre- and in-service training for
cooperative society staff; and miscellaneous operating and materials costs.
Assurances were received at negotiations that the field study, to be carried
out by the consultants satisfactory to the Bank, and the subsequent preparation
of the cooperative society development plans would be completed and provided
to the Bank for comment by April 1, 1981. Conditions for disbursement for
this component are the provision to the Bank of the signed agreements between
the state and the agencies participating in the component.
Social Infrastructure
4.18      Education and Vocational Training.  The project would expand educa-
tion and vocational training activities in the 76 municipalities not covered
by activities being carried out under the Ibiapaba Rural Development Project and
the Northeast Basic Education Project being financed by the Bank. This compo-
nent would mainly bring qualitative improvements to the basic rural primary
education system, as well as help develop more relevant, employment-oriented
second level agricultural education, and expand vocational training. It would
also help expand the non-formal adult education programs and strengthen the
state's education planning and management capacity. The project would finance
the: (a) construction, furnishing and equipping of: (i) 110 new and 450 remodeled
classrooms in primary rural schools for a total of 7,700 new and 31,500 improved
places for students assuming two shifts; (ii) 17 rural education centers, with
34 classrooms for a total of 2,380 student places in two shifts; and (iii) two



- 17 -
Regional Education Offices (DEREs); (b) remodelling and equipping of 3 second-
ary agricultural schools for 720 student places; (c) provision of canteen
equipment for school meals at 380 existing schools; (d) printing and distribu-
tion of about 132,000 student textbooks, about 319,000 student workbooks and
4,000 teacher manuals; (e) acquisition of about 350,000 student learning
packages and 15,000 teacher instructional packages; (f) training/upgrading of
3,000 currently unqualified teachers, about 20 coordinators for the rural
education centers, about 110 municipal school supervisors and about 110
technical/administrative personnel for project related duties at the DEREs and
the Municipal Education Office (OME) levels and 330 rural health education
tutors; (g) provision of training courses for artisans and workers in small-scale
non-agricultural enterprises assisted under the project; (h) salaries, opera-
tional costs and material expenditures for the teacher/administrator upgrading
programs and for project administration and supervision at SEC, DERE and OME
levels; and (i) technical assistance in education management to help identify
further constraints and elaborate proposals for overcoming these constraints.
Direct beneficiaries of the component would include some 78,000 basic education
students, 720 secondary level agricultural students, 3,000 basic education
teachers, and about 100 school supervisors and 110 administrative personnel.
The estimated total cost of the component amounts to about US$6.9 million
(5.8% of the project baseline costs) over the five year implementation period.
4.19      The component would be managed by PRORURAL 1/ within the state
Secretariat of Education and executed by the technical divisions of the
Secretariat in collaboration with the nine DEREs, which exercise supervisory
functions for municipal education in their respective areas, and the OMEs in
the 76 target municipalities, all of which would be reinforced and provided
with appropriate financial support and technical assistance. School designs
would conform to prototypes satisfactory to the Bank to be developed by SE
and CEBRACE (the Brazilian Center for School Construction and Equipment).
Primary schools, in accordance with criteria evolved for the Northeast Basic
Education Project, would be located in areas where the school age population
justifies the construction and double shift operation of a one or two classroom
school; and the Rural Education Centers in nodal population zones of ready
access to a group of existing basic education schools over which each Center
would exercise supervisory, advisory and course validation functions. Final
year students in secondary agricultural schools would be provided with a
satisfactory field experience program. During negotiation assurances were
obtained that: (i) before initiating education component activities in a
particular municipality, the state will have entered into an appropriate
component execution agreement with the municipality concerned; and (ii) by
September 30, each year, satisfactory site plans and justification of the
proposed location of project schools and rural education centers would be
provided to the Bank prior to their respective construction as part of the
next year's annual operating plan.
1/   The unit in SE responsible for the implementation of Rural Education
Programs.



- 18 -
4.20      Since a key element in the qualitative improvement of education
would be the retention in the project schools of the teachers whose training/
upgrading would be financed from the proceeds of the loan, it is of critical
importance that changes be introduced into the present teaching service system
whereby rural teachers may be hired and fired at the discretion of the munici-
pal authority, and are paid salaries significantly below the legal minimum.
The Federal Government is aware that this constitutes a major issue which,
because of financial constraints, not all states are able to resolve. The
Government is therefore planning to supplement from 1980 onward the salaries
of full time municipal teachers in the Northeast. Hence, the component
execution agreements to be entered into between the state and respective
municipalities (see para 4.19) would specify, inter alia, that the heads of
the 76 Municipal Governments would by December 31, 1983, present to their
respective legislative bodies bills to establish teachers' charters (Estatuto
do Magisterio) to define teachers' rights and duties, privileges and obligations.
4.21      The project would also finance the training of artisans for tertiary
sector occupations as well as for the small-scale non-agricultural enterpri-
ses assisted by the state Center for the Support of Small and Medium Enter-
prises (CEAG-CE). Funds are included for courses and follow-up activities
to promote associations of artisans, cooperative societies and other promotion
activities. The courses would include technical and legal information, would
be administered by the state Foundation for Social Activities (FUNSESCE),
which would also be responsible for coordinating the manpower demand studies
and the training programs, and would provide with its own staff training in
handicrafts and tertiary sector occupations, and would contract other institu-
tions such as the Fundacao Padre Ibiapina in the Cariri Region to provide
training in the secondary sector occupations. Training for small-scale
non-agricultural enterprises would be undertaken in close coordination with
CEAG-CE.
4.22      Conditions for disbursement under the education component are
that: (a) the Bank had been provided with agreements between the state and
agencies participating in the component (SE, FUNSESCE, and other institutions
to be sub-contracted for occupational training); and (b) with respect to
disbursement for individual project schools or centers, that the Bank had been
provided with satisfactory evidence that the respective sites had been legally
acquired. Assurances were given by the state that consultants hired to pro-
vide technical assistance in education management (para 4.18) would be hired
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.23      Health and Sanitation.  The health sub-component would provide at
full development, a wide coverage low cost health delivery system to serve
directly about 400,000 people and indirectly another 800,000 -- 100% of the
beneficiaries of the project's production components and about 30% of the re-
maining rural population. The health component would be administered by the
Secretariat of Health (SS) and would include the following: (a) the construc-
tion and equipment of about 200 rural health posts and of 3 health centers;
(b) the upgrading of existing rural health posts (80) and health centers
(29); (c) the training of 500 rural health attendants, 150 traditional midwives
and 180 outreach health auxiliaries and the organization of public health
seminars for the project staff; (d) the strengthening and better equipping of
the regional health administration network; and (e) 24 months of technical



- 19 -
assistance in health administration, to help identify constraints in the state
and regional health systems and elaborate and implement proposals for overcoming
these constraints. The project would finance construction and equipment costs;
training participant travel and boarding, and materials costs of the training
program; technical assistance; and equipment and operating costs (including
limited salary complements for key supervisory positions) for health component
supervision.
4.24      The proposed sanitation sub-component would provide for:  (a) the
design and construction of about 100 rural water supply systems providing
potable water to some 125,000 people; (b) the construction of some 14,000 pit
latrines; (c) the strengthening of state and local capacity to maintain the
water systems; and (d) the training of village water system operators. The
water systems would range in complexity from very simple systems (deep well,
pump, storage tank, public hydrants) in villages with up to 500 inhabitants,
to systems including elevated storage tanks, more extended distribution and
some house connections in towns with up to 2,000 people. Water systems design
would be carried out directly, or in some cases, contracted out by a special
unit in SS. Construction of the systems would be carried out by local
contractors or agencies (para. 4.25). SS would be responsible for providing,
through regional offices, supervision and maintenance backstopping.
4.25      Overall, SS would manage the health sub-component (establishment
of rural health posts, staff training, and technical assistance) and the
construction of rural water supply systems and of pit latrines. However, the
foundation for Public Health Services (FSESP) would continue to manage health
services in the municipalities in which it operates. Therefore, an agreement
defining respective execution responsibilities and implementation of project
activities, would be reached between SS and FSESP. SS would appoint a high
ranking fulltime component coordinator, with direct access to the Secretary
of Health who would be responsible for supervision and coordination of health
and sanitation activities. SS would also establish a Coordination Committee,
chaired by the component coordinator, in which the department heads of SS
line departments will be members. A new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Unit will be set up in SS, under the component coordinator, and will be
responsible for the planning, design, construction, and operation and
maintenance back-stopping for this subcomponent.
4.26      The execution of the component would be built upon village or com-
munity health associations which would: (i) contribute land, funds, labor
and/or local materials to help finance construction of the health posts and
water systems; (ii) operate and manage the water systems through locally
hired operators; (iii) collect user charges -- and, as necessary, enter into
agreements with the municipal governments for complementary funding -- to
offset operating costs; and (iv) in some cases, provide a basis for greater
community involvement in other project development activities. Each local
health post would be staffed with a paid health attendant. Local health
services would be simple, focusing on the provision of pre-natal care, vacci-
nations, health and nutrition education, and selected curative treatments.
The hea'th post would also provide a valuable mechanism for executing paral-
lel Government endemic disease and nutrition programs. Project training



- 20 -
would be directed toward the rural health attendants, regional health service
supervisors, health center attendants, and rural water supply operators. To-
tal component costs would amount during project life to about US$12.6 million
(10.6% of project baseline costs), of which US$5.0 million would be for health
activities and US$7.6 million for rural water supply and sanitation.
4.27      The details of the state's proposed new definition of the attributions
of the Regional Health Offices were discussed during negotiations. Assurances
were received from the state during negotiations that: (i) the pre-investment
studies of the water supply systems to be implemented during the following
year would be provided to the Bank by September 30 of each year; (ii) prior to
starting construction of a particular water system, the recipient community
would have already established its health society, and agreed formally to
assume the responsibility for financing the operating and maintenance costs of
the systems; and (iii) consultants hired to provide technical assistance in
health administration (para 4.23) and the execution of the sanitation sub-
component, would be hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. A condition for disbursement is that the Bank has been provided
with satisfactory agreements between agencies and foundations participating
in the implementation of the component.
Physical Infrastructure
4.28      Feeder and Access Roads.  The project would seek to:  (a) carry out
spot improvements on about 2,250 km of high priority municipal access roads
and improve their all-weather serviceability; (b) provide for the improved
maintenance of the extensive municipal road network; and (c) identify collector
feeder roads for which improvement to a high standard would be justified. The
component would include: (a) engineering, design and construction of essential
spot improvements (mostly drainage works) on the priority municipal access
roads, to Class F standard (Annex 1); (b) purchase of road maintenance equipment
and spare parts needed to reinforce DAER-CE's mechanized maintenance assistance
to municipalities; the provision for 2-3 years of an additional maintenance
specialist engineer at each DAER-CE regional office to assist in maintenance
training and the initiation of the maintenance program; and provision of training
for municipal foremen in planning and executing manual road maintenance tasks;
and (c) consulting services to identify and present collector feeder roads for
possible BNDE/DNER financing. DAER-CE would be responsible for overall
execution of the component through its 10 field maintenance offices. Total
costs of the component would amount to about US$32.9 million (27.5% of project
baseline costs).
4.29      Assurances were provided at negotiations that DAER-CE would contract
consultants for the preparation of engineering designs and supervision of
construction for spot road improvements under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. There are sufficient consulting firms in Ceara and neighboring
states to carry out this work, and past experience in preparing similar
designs for the Ibiapaba project area has been satisfactory. Construction of
the road improvements would be contracted annually in a number of lots indi-
vidually suitable for small local contractors or, in aggregate, interesting to
road contractors already operating in the area on state or national road
improvement projects. Local road contractors, aware of the growing volume



- 21 -
of such works, have expressed interest in entering this field of smaller
road works. Assurances were received during negotiations that by April 1,
1981, the Bank would be provided with the plan for contracting consultants
for preparation of designs and supervision of construction for the roads in the
first year's program. Such plans would be specified for each year thereafter
as part of the annual operation plans provided to the Bank (para. 6.09).
4.30      Maintenance of municipal roads is the responsibility of each muni-
cipality, only few of which own a grader or dump-truck to undertake such
work. DAER-CE furnishes some sporadic assistance by providing motorgraders to
municipalities from its regional offices, if available, and charges at least
for fuel consumption. Most of the small amount of funds that the municipalities
receive from the national road fund, as well as some other municipal taxes are
generally programmed for minor road improvements rather than road maintenance
and only a few roads receive any regular care. Both the municipal road
maintenance efforts and DAER-CE's capacity to support municipalities need to
be reinforced. The state gives high priority to this. The project would,
therefore, finance the purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts
sufficient to support maintenance of the municipal road network. The equipment
would be operated and maintained by DAER-CE. The project would also finance
an initial stock of hand tools for each municipality which would become
responsible for their replacement as part of their agreement for state assist-
ance in road maintenance. Since releases of municipal shares of national road
funds by DNER are frequently irregular, the state would, through the Ceara
Development Fund, advance money to the municipalities when needed to help them
meet their immediate costs under the agreed municipal road maintenance program,
until their national road fund shares are received. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the state that: (a) all equipment procured under
the project would be used solely for the maintenance of municipal and state
roads in the project area, in accordance with a maintenance program acceptable
to the PCMU; (b) DAER-CE would post one technical assistant to each of its
regional operations to participate in organizing DAER-CE's increased support
to municipalities and to provide the long-term technical assistance which the
municipalities would need in implementing a system of improved maintenance;
(c) it would enter into contractual arrangements with each municipality, before
the start of any project-financed road improvements, whereby such municipali-
ties would undertake to submit annually and execute (with defined DAER-CE's
assistance), a program for maintaining at least the improved access and feeder
roads and would allocate sufficient funds for this purpose from the municipal
share of the national road fund; and (d) by April 1, 1981, the state would
provide, for Bank comment, a five-year plan for advancing to and recuperating
from the municipalities funds for road maintenance
4.31      Municipal road maintenance foremen, trained by the project, would
be responsible for supervising execution of the municipal share of agreed
road maintenance programs. Training would be provided by a contracted team,
which would be organized and supported by the Federal Training School in For-
taleza, but who would actually conduct the training, together with DAER-CE
staff, at the various regional residences and in the municipalities. In



- 22 -
addition to the technical assistants to be posted at each field maintenance
office to assist municipalities with road maintenance (para 4.30), DAER-CE
would contract a road maintenance engineer for each residence, for a period of
2-3 years, to assist in initial training and to provide subsequent supervision
and assistance to the DAER-CE resident staff and to municipal foremen in
implementing their programs.  Consultants would be contracted -c help DAER-CE
identify and evaluate higher standard collector roads (para 4.28) for improve-
ment to Class D or E standards according to the requirements of the BNDE/DNER
feeder road manual (Annex 1). During negotiations, assurances were received
from the state that: (i) not later than December 31, 1981 and December 31,
1982, it would furnish the Bank for review and comment the results of the
consultants' studies on the improvement of collector roads for each respective
year; and (ii) by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1984 respectively, it would have
completed improvements on those roads studied.
4.32      Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes.  The project would seek to introduce
and foster improved irrigation and would include the studies and technical
assistance for some 83 small supplementary irrigation schemes, with 5-20 small
farmers each irrigating 1-3 ha, who are willing and able to organize to-
gether for the implementation, operation and maintenance of the systems. Water
sources will be deep wells, small earth dams or existing public dams built and
operated by DNOCS. The potential schemes would be identified by EMATER-CE
extension agents, and would be limited to those for which any probable new com-
munal off-farm works or investments could be readily financed through credit
to small, organized farmers' water associations or groups or for which other
financing was already available. On-farm works would also be financed by
banks, through either individual or group loans, depending on the situation.
Operation and maintenance of these systems will be fully borne by the farmers.
A recently created unit within the Secretariat of Planning and Coordination,
the CRH (Coordenaduria de Recursos Hidricos) will coordinate and supervise com-
ponent activities, prepare preinvestment studies and take part in preparation
of basic studies and design, together with other agencies such as the Ceara
Superintendency of Civil Works (SOEC), the Ceara Development Superintendency
(SUDEC), EMATER-CE and CEPA-CE. Total irrigated area under this component
would be about 2,500 ha and about 1,120 families are expected to benefit from
it. Per family cost will be about US$5,000 and total cost about US$5.7
million, of which US$1.3 million (1.1% of baseline costs) would be for tech-
nical assistance and US$4.4 million for off- and on-farm investments to be
financed by long term agricultural credit (see paras 4.40-4.43).
4.33      Agreement was reached during negotiations that prior to the
initiation of detailed studies and technical assistance for any small-scale
irrigation scheme with estimated off-farm and on-farm investments totalling
more than US$100,000, a preliminary analysis of the scheme would be pro-
vided to the Bank for agreement prior to inclusion in the project. Details
of other smaller schemes prepared under the project would be made available
to the Bank for review during the course of project supervision. Assurances
were also received that prior to starting detailed engineering assistance
for any particular scheme, the recipients would have already been established



- 23 -
as a group, and demonstrated interest and willingness to assume the respon-
sibility for financing the construction, operation and maintenance costs of
the systems during and after project execution. Assurances were also given
that consultants hired to assist CRH in project execution would be contracted
on terms and condition satisfactory to the Bank.
4.34      Marketing Activities.  In addition to the establishment of district
level marketing posts in cooperative societies (paras 4.15 - 4.17), marketing
activities would also include: (a) expansion of the guaranteed crop purchasing
mechanism (Compra Anticipada da Producao - CAP) into several areas not presently
covered (the project would finance incremental costs including salaries of two
regional supervisors, 9 field agents, and 2 auxiliaries phased in over five
years and the maintenance of 9 small operations centers); (b) expansion and
strengthening of the produce classification system (the project would finance
the installation and maintenance of 2 product analysis centers and 5 product
classification posts, the recuperation and maintenance of 5 centers and 25
classification posts, and the establishment of two mobile supervision and
classification units); and (c) establishment of 3 central wholesale market-
ing warehouses to supply retail outlets in rural areas with competitively
priced foodstuffs and basic consumer goods. Total component costs would
amount to about US$2.4 million (2.0% of baseline costs).
4.35      The CAP program is already administered by CODAGRO within the exist-
ing POLONORDESTE projects. It provides small farmers with advances for tra-
ditional crops and a guaranteed market for their output, at no less than the
official minimum price. Results of the first two years of CAP's implementa-
tion in Ceara have been fair.  Coordination problems between EMATER-CE and
CODAGRO, and delays in the arrival of funds have demonstrated weaknesses
in the program. Under the project, administrative procedures would be decen-
tralized and the management structure of CODAGRO would be strengthened. The
product classification system is directly managed by the Secretariat of Agricul-
ture and Supply which maintains classifying teams at key locations around the
state where high volumes of production and processing of agricultural products
are expected. Identification of product grade and quality is a precondition
to warehousing and obtaining financing under the official minimum price scheme.
The inadequate equipping and distribution of classification services have
hampered small farmers' use of minimum price financing in the past. The rural
wholesale marketing of basic consumer goods would be implemented by the
federally administered Brazilian Food Company (COBAL). Under the scheme,
COBAL would expand its program to ensure the availability of a balanced supply
of staple food products in remote areas at reasonable prices. Support would
be given to community and cooperatively owned stores established under the
cooperative development component, in an attempt to offer alternatives to
current retail services which in some rural areas, are monopolistic and linked
to marketing and credit services. In parallel with rural social extension,
health and nutrition education efforts, products would be supplied to a series
of small rural outlets which would sell them at predetermined prices. COBAL,
which would select the outlets and provide managerial assistance and control
the prices, would also, prior to the construction of the first warehouse,
carry out pilot activities in the area to be supplied, using rented facilities.
4.36      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that satisfactory
location and construction plans for the wholesale marketing warehouses
would be provided to the Bank prior to the initiation of construction.



- 24 -
Conditions for disbursement under this component are: (i) the Bank had been
provided with operating agreements between the state and participating
agencies in the component (such as CODAGRO and COBAL); and (ii) for marketing
warehouses the Bank had been provided with satisfactory evidence of the
acquisition of the respective sites.
Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises
4.37      The project would support the development of small non-agricultural
enterprises performing a variety of activities including food processing,
carpentry, sewing and leather work, and services such as those provided by
mechanics, electricians, stone masons and small retailers. Development of
these micro-enterprises would provide employment options for persons not
absorbed by the agricultural sector, and respond to increased demand for agri-
cultural inputs and services and consumption items resulting from project-
initiated growth. The executing agency would be the Center for Assistance
to Small and Medium Enterprises in Ceara (CEAG-CE), which is part of the Fede-
ral level Brazilian Center of Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
(CEBRAE). The component would provide: (a) equipment and staffing during
the project period for two regional offices and four local offices in areas
of concentration of small non-agricultural enterprises; and (b) training for
field staff providing assistance to small enterprises. Skill training and
remedial education for entrepreneurs and potential small-scale non-farm enter-
prise employees would be provided under the vocational training subcomponent
(para 4.21). The costs to be financed include equipment, materials and incre-
mental salaries for the local technical assistance offices. The component
would provide for the phased establishment of regional CEAG-CE offices in
Crato and Sobral, and four local offices in smaller cities. Some 16 addi-
tional technical assistance staff would be hired over the life of the project.
Staff would identify those enterprises to be assisted, provide guidance in
managerial and production matters, assist in the preparation of investment
proposals for the banks, and serve as a link between the entrepreneur and
sources of information and expertise, such as CEAG-CE and other research and
technical institutions. Staff would be trained by CEAG-CE, which maintains
an acceptable training program. Training for the entrepreneurs and their
employees would be coordinated by FUNSESCE under the vocational training sub-
component and executed by the Fundacao Padre Ibiapina in the Cariri RPU, the
National Services for Apprenticeship in Commerce and Industry (SENAC and SENAI
respectively), and other existing specialized agencies.
4.38      It is expected that around 1,100 small non-farm enterprises would
benefit directly from support provided under this component. Half of these
enterprises would be located in the perifery of the larger towns in the area
of assistance of a particular CEAG-CE office. The other half would be loca-
ted in smaller villages in the interior of the municipalities, with activi-
ties tied much more closely to the agricultural sector, but more difficult
to assist. Credit requirements (not financed under the project), estimated at
around US$2.3 million, would be provided by local branches of BNB, BB and BEC,
with which CEAG-CE already maintains a close working relationship. Total
technical assistance component costs are estimated at about US$1.3 million
(1.1% of baseline costs). Assurances were obtained that project financed
assistance by CEAG-CE would be provided only to small enterprises with less
than 10 employees, fixed assets of under 200 MVR (about US$9,000), monthly



- 25 -
sales under 85 MVR (about US$3,820) and a maximum monthly owner income, from
other sources of under 8 MVR (about US$360). During negotiations, assurances
were also obtained that the state would enter into such agreement with local
banks as necessary to ensure the availability of credit for the development of
the small enterprises assisted under the project. A condition of disbursement
for this component would be the provision to the Bank of a signed agreement
between the state and the executing agencies involved.
Project Coordination and Management
4.39      A new Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) is being
created within CEPA-CE. The PCMU would be in charge of coordinating project
planning and implementation, and of carrying out project monitoring, evalua-
tion and control (paras 6.01 to 6.08). This unit would include a headquarters
staff in Fortaleza and eight Regional Coordination Offices, one in each
project region (RPU). The project would cover the costs of equipping, staff-
ing and providing necessary materials and contract services to maintain the
PCMU during the five-year project period. A state government decree formaliz-
ing the project coordination and management set-up has been published and the
selection of qualified key personnel for the PCMU completed. Assurances were
received during negotiations that the terms and conditions of employment of
consultants, which will be contracted by the PCMU for various studies on
either technical or evaluation issues, would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Total component costs would amount to about US$10.9 million (9.1% of project
baseline costs) of which about US$3.0 million are for special studies to be
carried out on such subjects as soil conservation, the state water balance
(especially ground water potential in arid and semi-arid areas), produce
marketing, baseline agro-economic information, and sociological matters
related to project implementation.
Activities Parallel to the Project 1/
4.40      Credit.  The 60,000 small farmers expected to receive direct exten-
sion under the project would be eligible for agricultural credit. As only a
part of extension participants normally apply for and receive bank credit, it
is estimated that credit would be used by about 36,150 small farmers by the
fifth year of the project. Agricultural credit would include:
(i) Seasonal Short-term Credit to help cover costs of inputs and other
seasonal costs for the production of short cycle crops; the estab-
lishment of semi-permanent crops; and the maintenance and improve-
ment of established permanent crops (under present credit regulations
up to an estimated average of 75% of total production costs, including
labor can be financed by credit granted by official banks); and
(ii)  Medium and Long-term Credit for land clearing, storage facilities,
small irrigation schemes, traction animals, small farm tools,
equipment, and other on-farm development costs.
Credit would be made available either by the Federal Government under its
current POLONORDESTE credit line or under its "normal" rural credit program
for Northeast Brazil (para 4.42), without Bank participation in financing.
Funding for this component could be included in the future under a modified
region-wide Northeast/POLONORDESTE credit project which the government is
preparing for possible Bank financing.
1/   These activities would not be financed under the project, but are
complementary to it.



- 26 -
4.41      The delivery of credit will be linked to a strengthened agricul-
tural extension and technical assistance service provided by EMATER-CE. Spe-
cial farm management and credit extensionists will assist farmers in the pre-
paration of loan applications and in the development and implementation of
the farm plans. Funds will be channeled to the farmers by two federal banks,
Banco do Brasil (BB) and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), ari possibly the
state bank, Banco do Estado do Ceara (BEC). Plans already exist to increase
the current network of 97 bank branch offices to 110 agencies, these to be
complemented with 73 new credit "mini-branches". Banco Nacional do Credito
Cooperativo (BNCC) would also contribute mainly with short-term credit to the
cooperative societies. Total incremental agricultural credit requirements for
the first five years of project are estimated to be a total of some US$44.9
million equivalent, of which 42% would be incremental seasonal short-term
credit and 58% medium and long-term investment credit.
4.42      At present, POLONORDESTE credit carries an interest rate to the
farmer of 10% per annum, unindexed. The repayment period for working capital
credit varies with the crop cycle; for investment credits the term can be up
to 12 years (though usually less for small loans). Considering Brazil's high
inflation rates, the prevailing interest rates for POLONORDESTE credit are highly
negative in real terms. Although the Government moved, in December 1979, to
begin to reduce agricultural interest rate subsidies in Brazil, it did not
change rates for POLONORDESTE or other "special program" lines. The gap bet-
ween POLONORDESTE rates at 10% and the "normal" rural credit rates for small
farmers in the Northeast (now 21-26% compared to 13-15% previously) has in-
creased. Hence, in addition to the general undesirability of the highly
subsidized rates, the new situation adds the difficulty of assuring that the
more highly subsidized credit line actually goes mainly to small farmers new
to the banking system. The establishment of additional control and supervi-
sion mechanisms to control access to the POLONORDESTE line could well prove
counter-productive and offset efforts to simplify procedures and make lending
to small farmers less costly and more attractive to local bankers. The agri-
cultural credit required for this project would, therefore, be considered for
Bank financing only if and when the POLONORDESTE line can be brought into the
Government's overall program to gradually reduce interest rate subsidies and
unify the rate structure.
4.43      During negotiations, assurances were received from the Government
that it would take all necessary steps to ensure the annual availability of
adequate seasonal and investment crop credit to the small-scale farmers
(including share-croppers and tenants) participating in the project. Assur-
ances were also received that a Project Credit Statistics and Monitoring
System would be set up not later than June 30, 1981, and that the Project
Evaluation Unit would, on a yearly basis, evaluate the implementation of the
credit component.
4.44      Input Supply and Mechanization Services.  Agricultural development
activities under the project should result in increased demand for input
supplies, especially fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, and improved disease-
free planting material for various fruit crops. Moreover, some project bene-
ficiaries will also need mechanization services for land clearing and prepa-
ration. These inputs would be supplied by the state's Agricultural Develop-
ment Company (CODAGRO) and some of the cooperative societies. CODAGRO
has 120 sale post outlets and 15 tractor stations throughout the state, but
does not monopolize (nor is likely to) the provision of farm inputs and
mechanization services. Its presence is viewed by the state as an important



- 27 -
means to assure that at least the inputs and mechanization services required
for state-supported development efforts are available when and where needed
and that, where there are other suppliers, prices remain competitive. For
this project and the rest of the state agricultural development program,
existing CODAGRO machinery (192 chain tractors and 87 wheel tractors) will
probably be sufficient, especially since the tendency among farmers is to
shift from manual labor to the use of animal traction before shiftahg to
mechanization. However, the situation is a dynamic one and in order to
assure mechanization services are available when needed and justified, the
PCMU would review the situation annually and recommend appropriate measures to
the state. The state policy is for the provision of inputs to be self-financing,
so the Bank would not finance input supply, except for the construction of 20
supply miniposts as part of new marketing facilities provided under the
cooperative societies component (para 4.16).
4.45      Agro-Industrial Development.  Agro-industrial development is an
integral part of the Ceara rural development program, especially as cotton,
sugar cane and manioc are major agricultural products, and as fruits, mainly
for processing, are being introduced. In order to ensure sufficient processing
capacity is available for the project's produce, a survey on agro-industrial
production and installed capacity was conducted. The findings revealed
that existing agro-industries are, for the time being, operating with excess
capacity (the cotton industry operates at 49% of its capacity of cotton lint
production and only 23% of its capacity of oil-extraction, and the sugar
industry operates at 63% of its capacity). However, the PCMU would review
annually the project-generated agro-industrial processing needs, and inform
the state authorities in charge of industrial planning and development where
and when new installations are needed.
4.46      Improved State Coordination of Special Rural Development Programs.
The State Rural Development Council intends to establish the broad objectives,
strategies and interventions for rural development in the state, includ-
ing specific targets for the 60,000 small farmers who will be direct benefi-
ciaries of the proposed project. For that reason, all special federal and
state-financed rural development activities oriented towards small farmers
would be planned and programmed in collaboration with the proposed project,
even though those special programs may continue to maintain separate financial
and, in some cases, administrative identities. This effort to fully coordinate
planning and programming of the Special Rural Development Programs will, how-
ever, take several years to accomplish, given the multiplicity of sources of
finance and institutions involved. Starting with the planning/programming
exercise for 1981/82, CEPA-CE will concentrate on fine-tuning coordination
among the proposed project and the other main special programs in the state
(e.g., previously initiated POLONORDESTE, Sertanejo, Water Resources and
Irrigation projects). The following year (1982/83), other special programs
will be incorporated into the overall coordination process (e.g., Coloniza-
tion, PRODECOR, Zona Canaviera, etc.), and so on.
4.47      Specifically, with regard to the POLONORDESTE Program for 1980/81,
separate Plans of Operations were prepared for the proposed project and the
previously existing POLONORDESTE project because, as a practical matter, the
POLONORDESTE planning/programming exercise preceded completion of prepara-
tion of the proposed project. However, for 1981/82 and subsequent years, one
combined set of Plans of Operations would be prepared, with the source of
financing for each activity clearly specified. POLONORDESTE program method-
ology would be used in elaborating the Annual Plans of Operations, quarterly



- 28 -
and annual reports. Those regions not previously part of POLONORDESTE
(Litoral and Baixo Jaguaribe) would enter the program with the same planning/
programming and supervision procedures used. Mloreover, from 1980/81 onward,
the administrative system for POLONORDESTE and the proposed Ceara Second
Rural Development Project would be one and the same. The same Technical
Unit would coordinate activities, both at the level of the CEPA-CE and the
executing agencies. The only distinction made between POLONORDESTE and the
proposed project would be of an accounting nature, since not all activities
(i.e., those previously initiated and to be maintained with other financing)
in all municipalities would be eligible for Bank reimbursement under the
proposed Ceara Rural Development Project.
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs over the five-year project period (mid-1980 to
mid-1985) are estimated at US$163.1 million, including a foreign exchange cost
of US$29.6 million or about 18%, and taxes of about US$3.21 million. Physical
contingencies totalled an equivalent of 8.8% of baseline costs, and price
contingencies are equivalent to 27.6% of baseline costs. Physical contingencies
of 7% have been added to the rural extension, agricultural experimentation,
cadastral and land surveys, land titling and purchase, cooperative societies
development, and project administration components; 10% to feeder roads (in
addition to a roughly 10% physical allowance already built into baseline
costs), education and vocational training components; and 15% to the health
and sanitation, small-scale irrigation technical assistance and non-agricultural
enterprise assistance components. Price contingencies have been calculated in
US dollar terms as follows: for equipment and civil works, 10.5% in 1980,
9.0% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% per year thereafter; for other materials and
supplies, salaries and such (including land and this in addition to roughly a
20% allowance already built into the baseline cost estimate of land), 8% per
year. A summary cost table is given overleaf, and the annual phasing of
project costs is shown in Annex 2.
Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$56.0 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of project costs net of taxes or about 34% of
project costs including taxes. The balance would be provided by the Federal
Government, mainly through the POLONORDESTE program, by the State Govern-
ment, and by IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development). Nego-
tiations for a US$25 million loan are being conducted by IFAD and the Brazilian
Government in November 1980. Assurances have been received from the Federal
and State Governments that adequate funds would be made available promptly and
in order to reasonably maintain previously initiated rural development activi-
ties in the state and for effective and timely execution of the project, and
adequate operation and maintenance of the facilities and services provided
under the project. Assurances were received from the state that it would
arrange for the timely acquisition and necessary financing of any additional
land or rights-of-way which are needed for project works. The loan would be
for 15 years, including three years of grace, and would cover 66% of the
project's foreign exchange costs of US$30 million equivalent (with the balance
to be financed by IFAD), as well as US$36 million of the local costs.



- 29 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Costs 1/
(US$ 000')
Project Activit-'                                                   % of Total       %
Baseline    Foreign
1.   Agricultural Services             Local   Foreign    Total         Cost     Exchange
1.1  Rural Extension              22,664    3,090   25,754        21.5         12
1.2  Agri. Experimentation         1,751       194    1,945        1.6         10
1.3 Land Cadastral Surveys,
Titling and Purchase 2/  20,584    1,376   21,960          18.4          6
1.4 Cooperative Society
Development                 1,339       149    1,488        1.3         10
Sub-total              46,338    4,809   51,147         42.8          9
2.   Social Infrastructure
2.1 Education and Vocational
Training                    5,932    1,047    6,979         5.8         15
2.2  Health and Sanitation         9,490    3,163   12,653        10.6         25
Sub-total              15,422    4,210   19,632         16.4         21
3.   Physical Infrastructure
3.1  Feeder and Access Roads    22,016   10,844   32,860          27.5         33
3.2 Small-Scale Irrigation
Schemes                     1,208       134    1,342        1.1         10
3.3 Marketing and Storage
Facilities                  1,930      482    2,412         2.0         20
Sub-Total              25,154   11,460   36,614         30.6         31
4.   Small-Scale Non-Agricultural
Enterprises                        1,189       162    1,351         1.1        12
5.   Coordination, Management and
Studies                            9,814    1,090   10,904         9.1         10
6.   Baseline Costs                     97,917   21,731  119,648       100.0         18
7.   Contingencies
7.1  Physical                      8,632    1,895   10,527         8.8         18
7.2  Price                        27,074    5,943   33,017        27.6         18
Sub-Total              35,705    7,838   43,544         36.4         18
Total Project Costs         133,623   29,569  163,192 3/  136.4           18
1/   Excluding credit for agricultural development and small-scale non-agri-
cultural enterprises.
2/   Costs of state purchases of land for redistribution to small farmers
would be counted as a "project cost" but would not be elegible for Bank
disbursements.
3/   Including about US$3.25 million of local taxes.



- 30 -
5.03      Since Brazil is still making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic
resources, it would be appropriate for the Bank to give assistance in finan-
cing a part of the local currency expenditures in projects such as the pro-
posed, which have high priority and yet have a relatively low foreign exchange
content. The situation typically arises in agriculture and rural development
projects in Brazil in view of the high capability of the Brazilian economy to
produce a relatively high percentage of the inputs required for investments of
the type involved. If the Bank is to be effective in supporting a project of
this kind, it seems reasonable for it to finance at least 35% of the costs
even though this entails financing a part of the local currency expenditures.
It is also worth noting that the state of Ceara is highly committed to the project
and it is participating in project financing with at least US$4.5 million (about
3% of total project costs). Moreover, the State and the Federal Governments
would continue to finance essential complementary activities not included in
project costs co-financed by the Bank (such as electrification trunklines,
telecommunications, rural credit and credit to small-scale non agricultural
enterprises) at a cost of about US$72.0 million over the project period.
5.04      To help assure the prompt start of the project, various activities
will commence during the second half of 1980, such as the recruitment and
training of staff for the project management and coordination unit and exten-
sion service, engineering design of feeder roads, and the initial activities
of various other components. For this reason, retroactive financing of up to
US$2.0 million equivalent is proposed to help cover eligible expenditures
after June 30, 1980, but before the loan is signed.
Procurement
5.05      The equipment, materials and vehicles required over the project
execution period by the numerous agencies responsible for the different
project components (totalling about US$10.0 million) are locally produced and
readily available. Such items would be procured in accordance with local
procurement and bidding procedures, which are acceptable. Construction works
(totalling US$22.0 million without contingencies) for the feeder roads would
be grouped into appropriate construction lots. The Bank would review the
standard construction bidding and contract documents before the first round of
bidding, but awards would be reviewed on an ex-post basis. Contracts for these
works and for any civil works required for the village water supply, coopera-
tive society development, marketing, and education facilities (an additional
US$9.0 million) would be awarded to prequalified bidders on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
which are satisfactory. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry
capable of carrying out the project works. Since the individual construction
works are relatively small and quite dispersed, foreign contractors are not
expected to be interested, though they would not be excluded from bidding.
All of the other construction works included in the project (for health posts,
and the like, totalling some US$0.7 million) would be small and of varied
design as well as geographically dispersed. Consequently, they would be
carried out through a combination of self-help, force account and local
bidding. Consultancy services, most of which are expected to be local, would
have a total cost of approximately US$3.3 million equivalent (about US$3,850
per man-month).



- 31 -
Disbursements
5.06      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against 55% of
expenditures for each project component, excluding the land purchase sub-
component, through June 30, 1983, after which date the disbursement per-
centage would be adjusted to result in an overall rate of 36% of total
expenditures for those components disbursed against over the project execu-
tion period. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of Brazil,
against withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditures initiated
by the various implementing agencies under the project and certified by the
PCMU. The incremental staff positions for which project financing of salaries
is planned were specifically defined at appraisal. Supporting documentation
for salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction under force
account would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the PCMU
and made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works, vehicles
and equipment and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Details of the documents required were reviewed during negotiations. Dis-
bursements are expected to occur over about five years. The estimated dis-
bursement schedule is given in Annex 3.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Coordination and Management
6.01      The various components of the proposed project, would be executed
by existing agencies traditionally responsible for the respective activity--
e.g., EMATER-CE for extension, EPACE for agricultural research, and the like.
A detailed list of these agencies is given, by project component, in Annex 4.
In order to coordinate and guide rural development activities in Ceara, a
State Rural Development Council is being created. This Council is composed
of the Secretaries of those state Secretariats involved in rural development,
representatives of the principal executive agencies of the Special Programs
being implemented in the state and of state and federal banks, and headed by
the Governor of the state. This Council would give overall guidance to rural
development activities, while day-to-day coordination, administration, evalua-
tion and monitoring of the project would be undertaken by a Project Coordina-
tion and Management Unit (PCMU) in the CEPA-CE (para 4.39). Assurances were
received from the state during negotiations that it would maintain, for the
implementation period of the project, the PCMU with appropriate staff and
resources and would fully support other state agencies participating in the
project.
6.02      The PCMU would have four sections.  The first would be responsible
for planning, the second for field operations, the third for monitoring,
evaluation and studies, and the fourth for administration and finance, which
will also render services to the other units of CEPA-CE.  The PCMU staff would
comprise, at full development in year 5, an executive coordinator, 48 tech-
nical specialists (an increment of 29), in the Fortaleza headquarters,
16 regional field coordinators of technical specialist standing, 2 each for
every RPU (an increment of 10), and administrative support personnel. Though
this may appear to be a rather large staff, it should be noted that the unit
will gradually replace several existing region-specific POLONORDESTE project
units and coordination staff. Also, the unit would, in effect, assume primary



- 32 -
coordination responsibilities for all state rural development activities. An
organization chart of the PCMU is provided in Annex 5. The proposed staff,
allocation of staff responsibilities and management organization structure
would be such that the headquarters technical staff would not be overburdened
with administrative tasks at the expense of more valuable troubleshooting,
decision-making and innovative activities in the field.
6.03      The planning section staff would:  (a) assist project executing
agencies in the preparation of their annual state-wide rural action plans and
of the specific project component operating plans, in order to link project
feedback effectively to state-wide planning, and to avoid overlapping of
activities and waste of resources; (b) cooperate with and/or sub-contract
CEPA-CE staff in carrying out the annual overall state agricultural
planning; and (c) consolidate, in cooperation with CEPA-CE and the executing
agencies, the yearly plans into a continually adjusted state-wide five-year
rural development plan, including specifically the elements of that plan to
be financed under this project.
6.04      Operations staff would help promote and coordinate implementation
activities of the numerous executing agencies. To achieve this, there would
be three sub-divisions of function within the operations section: (a) produc-
tion and marketing (agricultural extension and experimentation, land tenure
restructuring, input supply, credit and advance purchase of production, seed
and sapling production, and produce sorting and marketing); (b) physical
infrastructure and engineering (roads, small-scale irrigation, and construc-
tion of buildings); and (c) non-agricultural services (health, sanitation,
education and vocational training, non-agricultural enterprises, social
organization and community development). The staff assigned to each function
would assist the relevant executing agencies to coordinate project activities
and supervise the progress of the respective component. In order to provide
administrative continuity and a communication link between the PCMU, the
executing agencies, and beneficiaries, and to ensure speed and efficiency
in project execution, the regional field coordinators would be a part of
the operations staff. Their role as a two-way communication channel should
provide "grass-roots" feedback to project administration and executing agen-
cies on yearly project planning and on implementation progress and problems.
6.05      The monitoring, evaluation and studies section would, at full
development, include 8 technical specialists supplemented by temporary student
interns. This section would have three main tasks. Firstly, staff would
monitor the results of each component and advise the project executive coor-
dinator of achievements as well as short-falls relative to expectations.
Standardized forms would be completed quarterly by executing agencies and
forwarded to the monitoring group for synthesis into quarterly project reports
that would be distributed to the PCMU management and operational staff, the
State Rural Development Council, Regional and Federal officials and the Bank.
Assurances were received during negotiations that: (a) the PCMU would
standardize data requirements among participating agencies, establish coding
and analysis procedures and provide a report on the recommended procedures
to the Bank for review and comment prior to their implementation, but not
later than April 1, 1981; and (b) the quarterly project reports would
be provided to the Bank promptly upon their completion. The monitoring
staff would also organize, administer, process, and analyze in the first,



- 33 -
third and fifth project years, a farm productivity survey.  The farm survey
would cover a small sample of participant and non-participant farmers in the
state. It would be conducted with a fixed format, pre-coded questionnaire
centered on production technology, farm inputs, institutional contact and
support, and produce marketing. The PCtGU would require assistance from
consultants in initiating this work. During negotiations, assurances were
received that the recommended survey design and analysis procedures would be
communicated to the Bank, for review and comment prior to implementation but
no later than April 1, 1981.
6.06      The second main task of the monitoring, evaluation and studies
unit would be project evaluation, which would complement and draw on project
monitoring results and would involve a continuous advising of project manage-
ment of the extent and quality of project progress and implementation dif-
ficulties. On-going evaluation "products" would comprise reports of topic-
specific evaluation studies, evaluations of PCMU monitoring and farm survey
results, and a major mid-project evaluation report (during project year 3).
The evaluation team would also prepare and contract uninvolved third-party
institutions for a post-facto evaluation report of the project to supplement
the project completion report. Assurances were received during negotia-
tions that the project mid-term evaluation report, and the project completion
report would be provided to the Bank, the former not later than June 30, 1983,
and the latter within six months of project completion.
6.07      The third main task of this section of the PCMU would be to plan,
contract and interpret technical and social studies relevant to project
implementation, and to resolve unforseen bottlenecks. To fulfill these
functions, the group will also establish a project data bank and keep track
of completed and ongoing research of potential value to rural development
project implementation in the state. The main studies already defined,
to be carried during the first years of the project, are: soil conservation,
state water balance (especially ground water potential of arid and semi-arid
areas), and sociological studies meant to help guide project implementation.
Assurances were received during negotiations that the detailed terms of
reference of these studies would be approved by the Bank, and that these
reports should be provided to the Bank, within three months of their completion.
6.08      The administration and finance section, with two professionals and
appropriate support staff, will perform administrative and accounting tasks
for the PCMU and the other units of CEPA-CE.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
6.09      The project covers a broad range of related activities.  Since the
timing and scope of some would undoubtedly require adjustment as experience
is gained, flexibility in project yearly planning and execution would need
to be maintained. For this reason, and to help assure continued timely
budgetary support, the state plans to furnish to the regional and federal
authorities by May 1 each year, its preliminary estimates for budget
requirements of the Special Programs to be implemented in the following
year. By June 15 each year the Federal authorities would notify the state
on the amounts allocated to those Programs. Each participating agency
would subsequently prepare jointly with the PCMtU an annual plan detailing
the activities and expected expenditures under the project for the next



- 34 -
year; the annual plans would coincide with the POLONORDESTE's April 1 to
March 31 fiscal year. The integrated package of annual plans, as reviewed
and approved by the State Rural Development Council would be submitted to
the regional and federal authorities and serve as a basis for yearly budget
allocations. Assurances were received at negotiations that the Federal and
State Government would take all necessary steps to ensure the compatibility
and coordination of rural development activities in the state. Assurances
were also received that the proposed project annual operating plans would be
submitted to the Bank no later than September 30 each year for review and
comment, and that the Bank would be advised of the approved plan by the
beginning of the applicable POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
6.10      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, the state Govern-
ment would enter into written agreements (convenios) with certain executing
agencies to specify their respective responsibilities under the project and
help assure timely project completion. Such agreements are normally employed
when: (a) the executing entity concerned is not directly part of, or respon-
sible to, the state Government; (b) the executing agency is largely auto-
nomous; or (c) special responsibilities (e.g., counterpart funding, adoption
of new procedures) need to be spelled out. In the proposed project, agree-
ments would be particularly useful in assuring adequate participation of, and
coordination among, the agencies involved in cadastral surveying, titling and
land purchase, cooperative society development, education and vocational train-
ing, sanitation and health, marketing, and non-agricultural enterprise components.
Each project executing agency has nominated a qualified staff member to be
responsible for providing liaison with the PCMU and for coordinating execution
of the agency's project activities. During negotiations, assurances were
received from the state that it would enter into and maintain during the
project execution period all such agreements as are necessary to assure active
cooperation of the various agencies participating in the above mentioned
components. The signing of the agreements would be a condition of disbursement
for each of these components (paras. 4.14, 4.17, 4.22, 4.27,4.36 and 4.38).
Implementation Schedule
6.11      A chronogram of the main project activities is given in Annex 5.
Accounts and Auditing
6.12      Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of its
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government auditors
according to standard Government practice for POLONORDESTE projects, which
is satisfactory.  The PMCU would maintain accounts of its own project expen-
ditures as well as statements of expenditures by each participating agency.
Assurances were received during negotiations that copies of the audited
statements of project accounts of the various participating agencies would
be provided to the Bank through the PMCU within six months of the end of
their fiscal year. Assurances were also received that these reports would
include specific reference to the adequacy of procedures used for the verifi-
cation and preparation of statements of expenditure for disbursement requests.



- 35 -
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING, AND PRICES
Production
7.01      The estimates of project-generated production increases are closely
related to the agro-ecological conditions of the various regions in the state,
which vary considerably in productivity and potential. In the semi-arid
Sertao areas, where about 75% of the proposed beneficiaries live, the impact
of the project would be to substitute gradually higher yielding annual varie-
ties for existing varieties of perennial cotton; raise yields on traditional
crops through improved inputs and management; and increase the area of
cultivation where possible, especially of higher value crops such as rice.
In the highland Serra regions, with some 15% of project beneficiaries, the
project would promote expansion of the area planted in high value crops
(vegetables, sugar cane, rice), irrigated where feasible; and improvement
and expansion of stands of fruit trees (urucu, oranges, soursop), raising
existing yields through the use of improved seeds, planting stocks and fertil-
izers, and improved management. In the Litoral or coastal region, with 10% of
project beneficiaries, the thrust of the proposed project would be to improve
and expand existing stands of fruit trees (cashews, coconuts) as well as
increase productivity in traditional crops (mainly manioc) through improved
management and inputs. Generally, it was assumed that yield increases under
the project would be quite modest and gradually achieved in up to six or seven
years. Unnecessary crop losses would be reduced principally through better
farm management, coupled with improved seeds, disease and pest control methods,
and use of fertilizers and other inputs. Estimated yields at full development
are still below levels attained by the most progressive farmers in the project
area; however, they reflect best estimates of what could be achieved, on
average, within the constraints imposed by climatic and soil conditions.
7.02      A summary of expected production and productivity derived from
assumptions contained in about 33 farm models is given in para 8.05. The
project would build on development already initiated in POLONORDESTE projects
and by progressive farmers and would assist more small farmers to participate
in these trends. At estimated February 1980 farmgate prices, incremental
annual production at full development is expected to amount to US$70.6
million. Approximately 29% of the value of incremental production would come
from cotton, 9% from vegetables, 21% from fruits, and 40% from traditional
subsistence crops. Because of the "demonstration effect" of project extension
activities and infrastructure development production increases are also
probable from other farmers in the project area.
7.03      The most important crop produced in the state is cotton.  This is
followed in importance by manioc, beans, cashew and corn, which together with
cotton account for some 70% of the total value of state agricultural produc-
tion (excluding animal products). The project would support the expansion
of cotton production, and attempt to stem and reverse the long term trend
in falling yields which has resulted from degeneration of types grown and
poor crop management. Adopting existing trends, project farmers would
gradually begin to reduce their dependence on the traditional cropping system
of perennial cotton, corn, and beans, and, wherever possible, crops such as
rice, vegetables, and fruit trees would be introduced.



- 36 -
Demand
7.04      Ceara has traditionally been a net exporter of cotton and various
fruits (bananas, cashew) and a net importer of sugar, rice, meat, beans and
other foodstuffs. Cotton, the principal agricultural crop, is absorbed by
the local textile industry, and cotton importing states of which Sao Paulo,
Pernambuco, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro are the most important. Of an
estimated 1979 cotton production of 196,500 tons, some 52,000 tons was pro-
cessed within the state, the remainder being shipped to other parts of the
country after ginning. Little cotton has been exported in recent years,
due to unfavorable international prices. These are expected to increase
some 35% over the next 10 years, however, improving the possibilities for
exports. Nevertheless, it is expected that incremental project production
could in any case be absorbed by the national textile industry.
7.05      Vegetables and fruits, produced principally in the more humid hilly
micro regions in the state, are marketed in the main urban centers of Ceara
and neighboring states. Depending on absorption capacity, vegetables and
fruits are channelled to Fortaleza, Teresina, Natal or Joao Pessoa. These
goods are marketed through Government-operated (CEASA) wholesale fruit and
vegetable markets outside the various cities which maintain a price and
quantity information system run by the Agricultural Market Information System
(SIMA). The availability of this type of service helps direct the flow of
produce to the urban areas with shortages. An estimated 19,000 tons of
vegetables were produced and consumed in the state in 1979. It is expected
that the incremental annual project production of 9,500 tons of vegetables
in 1990 will be easily absorbed by the increase in demand from the expanding
urban centers in the region. Fruit produced in the state is either consumed
within the state, shipped fresh to other Northeastern cities for consumption,
or processed in the various fruit packing industries located in Ceara,
Pernambuco and other neighboring states. The state produces only 30% of its
current annual consumption of 30,000 tons of oranges. Incremental project
production of 5,400 tons is expected to be easily absorbed. Cashew nuts
are processed in the state for a nation-wide and export market, and incre-
mental project production of 8,400 tons will be absorbed by this industry.
Pineapples and bananas produced in Ceara are among the most important fruits
exported to other states, and it is expected that the approximately 100,000
additional tons of these fruits produced annually as a result of the project
will be absorbed in the fresh fruit and processing markets in Ceara and nearby
states.
7.06      Traditional foodcrops--beans, corn, rice and manioc--are consumed
principally on the farm, with excess production sold for urban consumption.
The current state consumption of corn (about 313,000 tons) is expected to
continue to exceed production in the 1980's, and incremental project produc-
tion of 74,000 tons will be easily absorbed. Production of manioc, about 1.8
million tons in 1979, exceeds local demand, and the excess is processed into
flour and exported to other states though wheat flour continues to be imported.
Incremental production of 160,000 tons will be used in this fashion. State
bean production, of some 105,000 tons currently, lags behind consumption.
State production is projected, however, to cover internal consumption require-
ments by the late 1980's, and excess production would be exported to deficitary



- 37 -
regions in other states. Beans are one of the main staples of the Brazilian
diet and no problems are expected with the marketing of incremental production
of 36,100 tons. Current state rice production of some 50,000 tons is well
below demand projections in constant prices, and is expected to remain that
way into the 1980's. Incremental project production of 5,000 tons would be
consumed within the state. The table below summarizes agricultural production
forecasts.
Estimated Ceara Production, Demand in 1979 and 1988 and
Incremental Project Production at Full Development
Expected Value
Estimated State       Estimated 1/               Incremental   of Incremental
Production         State Demand   Balance       Project         Project
1979        1988         1988          1988      Production       Production
Crop              (tons)       (tons)       (tons)        (tons)        (tons)     (US$ million)
Cotton             196,500    267,100         96,800       170,300     53,900            20.2
Corn               172,200    440,000        681,400      (241,400)    71,300             8.4
Beans              104,800    180,000        162,900        17,100     35,300            13.1
Manioc           1,760,000  2,470,000    1,893,100         576,900    172,100             5.4
Rice                49,500    112,000        436,300      (324,300)     9,000             1.7
Bananas            144,000    270,000        178,300        91,700     22,800             2.0
Vegetables          18,500      28,800        47,100      ( 18,300)      9,500            6.5
Oranges              8,200      12,500        50,600      ( 38,100)      5,400             .7
Soursop              n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        4,900              .7
Urucu                n.a.        n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          830             .8
Coconuts            78,700    131,000         15,100       115,900      5,700             1.0
Pineapples           n.a.        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         7,300             .8
Guava                n.a.        n.a.          n.a.          n.a.       10,000             .7
Passion Fruit        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         1,400            0.2
Cashew Nuts        516,800    973,000          n.a.         n.a.        8,500             2.8
Castor Beans        15,000      20,000         n.a.          n.a.       - 500             -.1
Coffee               n.a.        n.a.         63,600        n.a.           600             .7
Sugar Cane           n.a.   2,600,000    6,236,100   (3,636,100)    32,500                 .3
Other Fruits         n.a.       n.a.           n.a.         n.a.       37,000             4.7
TOTAL                      -            -                     -          -               70.6
1/   The growth rate of demand for the various products is based on (i) pro-
jected average annual population growth rates of between 1.8 and 4.3%
between 1979 and 1988; and (ii) an average yearly income growth rate
of between 6 and 12%; growth rates vary depending on whether metro-
politan Fortaleza, other urban areas, or the rural areas in the state
are considered.



- 38 -
Marketing and Prices
7.07      Marketing mechanisms differ between the Sertao and the Serra areas
due to the different nature of the crops involved. Channels for the sale
of cotton, and excess production of corn and beans in the Sertao are closely
tied to traditional financing agents (local store owners) and usually con-
trolled by the large local landowners. Produce is usually owed to the local
store or landowner)for consumption financing received before harvest. Collec-
tion and transportation to urban markets are usually done by trucker/inter-
mediaries. These procedures often do not provide the farmer with an equitable
share of the value of production. The project would attempt to provide
farmers with more options for both production finance and marketing of pro-
duce. It would help increase farmers' bargaining power and prices by assisting
cooperative societies to intervene in marketing and by providing the option
of institutional crop financing. In the small, densely settled Serra regions,
where the principal products sold are fruits, vegetables, and sugar cane, the
Government has established a system of producers' wholesale markets, served
by a market information system, and aimed at channelling production to the
large population centers in the Northeast region. Collection, transportation,
and distribution are fairly efficient, with intermediaries responding quickly
to price differentials. The system should be able to absorb incremental
project production without major bottlenecks or decreases in farmgate prices
beyond normal seasonal fluctuations. This centralization of marketing activi-
ties has permitted a certain concentration of intermediaries, with the market-
ing of a given product dominated by three or four wholesalers for each whole-
sale market. Monopsonist power has often forced the farmers to accept a
rather low proportion of the final consumer price in return for a guaranteed
market for perishable goods for which farmers have so far no alternative use,
marketing organization or storage possibilities.
7.08      Small farmers have virtually no participation in the minimum price
purchase scheme, and direct Government involvement started only recently with
the Advance Crop Purchase Mechanism (CAP). Administered by CODAGRO, in
conjunction with E4ATER-CE, the program provided some thousand farmers with
working capital financing and a guaranteed market for traditional subsistence
crops during the 1978/79 season. This program is aimed especially at assist-
ing sharecroppers in the sertao and will be supported under the project
(para 4.35).
Small-Scale Non-Farm Enterprise Production and Marketing
7.09      Non-farm enterprises in the project area are engaged in (a) the
production of simple items such as furniture, tinware, manioc flour, jams
and preserves, signs, shoes, and clothing; (b) retail activities on a small
scale; and (c) services such as those provided by mechanics, welders and
electricians. It is estimated that the impact of the project would be to
increase output from these types of enterprises by 25% to 30%. Principal
outlets for production are the local, usually weekly, open markets held in
municipalities, and the large regional centers such as Crato-Juazeiro, Sobral,
Limoeiro do Norte - Tabuleiros do Norte. The market for artesan goods (wood
and leather work, embroidery) is nationwide. Increased demand for small non-
farm enterprise products is also expected to result from the growth in farmer
incomes resulting from the investment activities of the overall rural develop-
ment project.



- 39 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Types
8.01             The project area is suited for a wide variety of crops and cropping
patterns, reflecting the broad range of ecological, physical and socio-economic
conditions. Based on field surveys and information gathered by INCRA, CEPA-CE
EMATER-CE and EPACE, 33 illustrative farm types were studied representing
seven of the eight project regions. Some 8 illustrative farm types had pre-
viously been analysed for the Ibiapaba region, financed by Loan 1488-BR, and
for which the proposed statewide project would carry on certain activities
after completion of the Ibiapaba project. The assumed distribution of farm
types, and their cropped areas for the pre-project and with project situltions
are giveur in the following:
Ttatl, Cron4Aa
l*1O~1                                          C,god  Amu Per Par* (ooo  ha)
Pl                                                                                  Ihnbgr of
unit                     rw    Troe            Pro-Proj.    With Proi.            Farmers       Pre-Prol.   With tral.
r.  Litoral             Non-owner (Litoral)           1.7            3.0                5.971         10.1           17.t
Non-owner (Sertao)            2.3            3.0                3,043          7.0            9.1-
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Litoral)                   7.0             6.5               1,885         13.2           12.2
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Sortso)                    5.7             7.0                  883          5.0
Sub-total  11.782           35.3           45..
U.  BetuLite             l;on-owuer (Serra)             3.4            4.0                1,116          3.6            4.9
Non-owner (Sertao)            5.0            6.5                2,190         10.9           14.2
owner 0.1 - 10 he
(Serre)                     3.8             3.5                  592          2.2            2.1
Owner 10.1 - 50 ha
(Serra)                     8.4             9.9                  262          2.2            2.4
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Sertao)                    8.7           11.0                   543         4.7             4.0
Sub-totel   4,703           23.8           29.
II1. Baizo
J.tuavribe         Son-owner (Sertao)            4.5             6.0               1.776           8.0           10.7
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Sertao)                    6.0             6.0               1,398           8.4             4
Owner 0.1 - 10 ha
(Aluviao)                    5.0            5.0                  705          3.5            3.5
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Litoral)                   6.3             7.0                  407          2.5            2.1
Sub-total   4,286           22.4           25.4
IV    Sertoem
Coarenses          N1on-owirr (Sertao)           3.3             4.0                5,536        1B.3             A
N--   on- er (.ertao)         3.0            4.0                  157          0.5            0.6
Owner 0.1 -0 ha
(Sortao)                    3.6             *L.S              2,352           8.5           10.6
Owner 20.1 - 50 ha
(Sertao)                     5.0            5.0                  196          1 .0           1.0
Sub-total   8,241           28.3           34.3
V.  Sertoes do          Non-owner                      6.3            7.0                5,504         34 7           38.5
Quixera:obin e   Owner 0.1 - 25 ha                3.2            4.0                2,063          6.6            8.2
Medlo Jaguarlbe  Owner 25.1 - 100 ha            11.2            14.0                1.306         14.6           18.3
Sub-total   8,873           55.9           65.0
VI.  Sertoes do           az-owner                      7.8            9.0                  369          2.9            3.3
Inhaurrs e         Non-owner                      5.2            8.0                3,389         17.6           27.1
Salgado            Owner 0.1 - 25 ha              4.6            5.5                2,337         10.7           12.8
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha             5.0            6.0                  197          1.0            1.2
Owner 25.1 - 100 ha          12.5           15.0                1,330         16.6           20.0
Owner 25.1 - 100 ha          11.9           15.0                  103          1.2            1.5
Sub-total   7.725           50.0           65.9



_ 40 -
Total Croo,ed Area
CropCed Area Per Fare (ha)                  (000' ha)
nitc                ?sr. ?IW               J    With PT*_ I     Tn..      t_?. *aWith ,I,.
stZ. Cartit           KOU-4wn  (V41e)          3.7          6.2             1,755       6..          7.5
lion-owr (Chapada)       6.2          4.5              9eo        6.0          4.4
%on-owner (Sert.a)       5.2          6.0            2,696       16.0         16.2
Ow0e 0. 1 - 25 1,4 (Vale) 535         5.0              240        1.3          1.2
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha (Vale)  4.6         5.7              237        1.1          1,4
Ownet 0.1 - 25 ha
(Set*"e)                7.7        10.0             1,982       15.3         19.8
Owner 25.1  50 he
(Chzapa)               1.5.0        9.1               35'        3.3          3.2
Sub-totai  8,243       49.6         33.7
771.  bhiapeb          Nutid Zone                5.1         5.1 I/          2,220       11.3        11.3
Carreaco Zone            6.1          4.1 IX         4,1eo       17.0         17.0
Sub-total  6,400       28.3         28.3
Grand total 60,253      293.6        347.4
D Data Is a* average for the 2.220 farmers Ltr the hurtd zon, and the 4,180 farmers
i  irn the terTsaco. The ipact ef this project vould be to achieve a modest itcrease
in the vields atrained in the previous project in Ibiapaba (Loan 1488-3R), for project
farmers and some additional farmcrs of the cyp* assisted La Che previous project (sa.
Repert We. 1580-a Bit *o Anut 22. 1977), bet _C n.e.eaarily further incroa,e ta the
On-farm Operations
8.02          It  is estimated  that  the financial  rates  of  return to the farmers
participating in the project could range from about 10% in the case of a small
non-owner farm type in the difficult Sertao area to 50%. The higher returns
appear in farm types which include high value crops such as fruit and vegeta-
bles, for which good prospective markets exist (paras 7.02 to 7.06). The
details of the agrotechnical assumptions for the farm models, as well as farm
operating results and cash flows for three representative examples of the
farm types, are provided in Annex 8.
8.03          Considered  as  costs  in all the analyses  are  the on-farm  investments
(such things as initial land preparation, establishment of permanent tree
crops and purchase of minor tools and equipment) and the expected operating
costs of farming activities. Prices for inputs, labor and production were
assumed to be at levels prevailing on local markets, averaged over the past
three years. No price differential was included at the farmgate level between
perennial and annual cotton, because the only distinctions made here are based
on the quantity of roughage and general presentation of the product. Expected
financial rates of return on incremental net farm benefits are summarized as
follows:
latsns.sl                          Croyyed Ares Per Farr (ha)
Planning                                                      Fnctl1
Unit             Fars Type        Prm-Prof.  Wtth Troi. Patc of Fe!urn
I.  Litoral      Non-owner Litoaral)      1.7        3.0            41
Non-owner (Sertc)       2.3        3.0            24
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Litoral)            7.0        6.5           2t
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Sertao)            3.7         7.0            20
TI. Baturite     Non-o.ner (Serra)        3.4        4.0            18
Non-owner (Sortao)       5.0        6.5            24
Owner 0.1 - 10 ha
(Serra)              3.8        3.5            17
Owner 10.1 - 50 ha
(3erra)              8.4        9.9            37
Owner 0.1 -- 25 ha
(Sertao)            8.7        11.0            ;s
11T. 8aixo
Jituaribe    Xon-o'ner (Sertao)      4.5         6.0           43
ONer 0. I - 25 ha
(Sertao)             6.0        G.a            13
Owner 0.1 - 10 ha
(Aluviao)            5.0        5.0            30
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
*1.ttral)           6.3        7.0            32



- 41 -
Regional                                Cropped Area Per Farm (ha)
Planning                                                              Financial
Unit               Farm Type          Pre-Prol.   With Proj.  Rate of Return
(%)
IV. Sertoes
Cearenses       Non-owner (Sertao)        3.3           4.0            24
Non-owner (Sertao)        3.0           4.0            10
Owner 0.1 - 20 ha
(Sertao)             3.6           4.5            21
Owner 20.1 - 50 ha
(Sertao)             5.0           5.0            19
V.   Sertoes do      Non-owner                 6.3           7.0            28
Quixeramobim e Owner  0.1 - 25 ha         3.2           4.0            28
Medio
Jaguaribe    Owner 25.1 - 100 ha    11.2             14.0            30
VI.  Sertoes do      Non-owner                 7.8           9.0            22
Inhamuns e      Non-owner                 5.2           8.0            19
Salgao          Owner 0.1 - 25 ha         4.6           5.5            28
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha         5.0           6.0            21
Owner 25.1 - 100 ha    12.5            15.0            27
Owner 25.1 - 100 ha    11.9            15.0            25
VII. Cariri          Non-owner (Vale)          3.7           4.2            46
Non-owner (Chapada)       6.2           4.5            18
Non-owner (Sertao)        5.2           6.0            33
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Vale)               5.5           5.0            50
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Vale)               4.6           5.7            36
Owner 0.1 - 25 ha
(Sertao)             7.7          10.0            48
Owner 25.1 - 50 ha
(Chapada)           15.0           9.1            41
VIII. Ibiapaba 1/   8 Models                   -   1/         _  1/          -  1!
1/   See Report No. 1580a-BR of August 2, 1977 for the analysis of 8 farm
models for the Ibiapaba project.  The estimated returns presented for
that project would be further enhanced by the various continued improve-
ments in off-farm services and infrastructure planned for the proposed
state-wide project.
Producer Income
8.04      As a result of the project, the estimated income from agricultural
activities could increase from a weighted average, in US$ of 1980, of about
US$900 equivalent per family before the project to about US$1,595 equivalent
at full development or within roughly 8 to 12 years. All of the expected
participants are estimated to have incomes currently below the rural relative
poverty cut-off line in Brazil, that is, about US$330 per capita, or US$1,650



- 42 -
per family. An estimated 45% of project participants families would have at
full development, incomes over the current poverty level. However, the income
estimates cover only the principal activity of the farm operation and represent
averages by farm type and size; obviously, some farmers in each type or size
group will have incomes above the average. Also, some of the smaller scale
farmers in particular are likely to have some additional incom' from share-
cropping, renting or laboring on other farms, mainly before the project but
also to a lesser extent after project inception. Because these supplementary
incomes could not be easily measured, the difference in estimated incomes
between the "without project" and "full development" situations of the smaller
scale farmers may overstate in some cases, the overall net income increase.
On the other hand, the estimated income increases projected under the project
would be underestimated to the extent that the real debt service burden to the
farmer would be deflated since credit is not indexed to offset inflation. It
should be stressed that the cases analyzed are purely illustrative examples.
8.05      "Without project" and "full development" income levels, including
the inputed value of family labor and value of on-farm consumption, as income
are as follows:
Estimated Weighted Farm
Income _           Expected Participants
Without      At Full
Regional Planning         Project      Development   Number       % of Total
(US$ equivalent rounded)
I. Litoral                      470          1,115       11,782          19.7
II. Ibiapaba                   2,295          2,610        6,400          10.6
III. Baturite                   1,470          2,600        4,703            7.8
IV. Baixo Jaguaribe              845          1,610        4,286            7.1
V. Sertoes Cearenses            365            670        8,241          13.7
VI. Sertoes do Quixeramobim
e Medio Jaguaribe           745          1,455         8,241          14.7
VII. Sertoes do Inhamuns
e Salgado                   790          1,635         7,725          12.8
VIII. Cariri                       950          1,950         8,243          13.6
Weighted Average/Total       900         1,595        60,253         100.0
Non-Farm Activities
8.06      Many farmers supplement their income by working as laborers on other
farms or in small-scale industrial or commercial activities in the region.
These many small operations include the processing of manioc root into flour,
the production of cheese and butter, and of jams and preserves. Also, some
family members work in artesan activities, such as embroidery, leather work and



- 43 -
lace making. The project seeks to support the development of these off-farm
activities with technical assistance training. Rates of return from various
illustrative small-scale enterprises analyzed under this component varied
from 28 to 55%, with the net income of the small-scale enterprises increasing
at least 50% over five years.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects of
the project has been estimated at about 19%. For various aspects of the pro-
ject, such as improved health and sanitation and education and vocational
training components which would have significant benefits which are not readily
quantifiable (para 9.06), no economic rate of return was calculated. The
details of the cost and benefit streams used in the economic analysis are
given in Annex 7. Other details of the economic analysis are available in
the Project File.
9.02      The cost stream used in the economic evaluation of productive acti-
vities included: (a) all investment and incremental operating costs on farms
and in small non-farm enterprises (based on the phased aggregate of the dif-
ferent types of participants); (b) the off-farm investment and incremental
operating costs directly related to agricultural and small non-farm enterprise
development during the project period; and (c) recurrent costs of services
after the 5 years of project implementation, necessary to sustain projected
development. The cost stream thus includes 100% of project costs for research,
marketing, cooperative society development, land purchase and titling, small-
scale irrigation, feeder roads and small non-farm enterprise development; 90%
of rural extension costs (excluding social extension costs); 65% of administra-
tion, monitoring and evaluation costs; and 50% of the cost of studies. The
cost stream excludes costs of education and vocational training and health and
sanitation. Overall, about 77.0% of total project costs were included in the
cost stream.
9.03      It should be noted that some of the project investments would have
significant benefits not measured by the incremental production of the 60,000
direct farm family participants and some 1,100 non-farm enterprises. For
example, the extension and research activities are certain to have demonstra-
tion effects on other farmers in the state, particularly since the direct
participants represent only about 20% of the total number of small farmers
in Ceara and will be located in almost all the municipalities of the state,
thereby multiplying the chances of diffusion of successful new production
techniques. Additionally, project roads could be expected to benefit not only
other farmers, but also other economic activity in the state and lead to bet-
ter access to improved social services. The roads would also have an impact
on production by helping improve the penetration of extension services, the
farmers' access to markets and credit and production inputs and, hence, the
likelihood of adoption of improved farming techniques.
9.04      The benefit stream used in the rate of return analysis included all
of the incremental production of the project participants, such estimates
being derived from the aggregate of the phased incorporation into the project,



- 44 -
over five years, of the various participant farmers and non-farm enterprises
and phased increases in production by the different types of participants. The
prices used in the economic analysis were based on projected farmgate prices
adjusted to reflect, among other things, the impact of project transport and
marketing components.  These projected farmgate prices were compared to
border prices (discounted to take into account transport, handling and insu-
rance costs) and were adjusted in the case of cotton, coffee, oranges, rice,
sugar cane, corn and bananas which are traded goods. Labor was priced--at the
market wage rate, a conservative assumption, made to reflect possible labor
shortages at periods of peak demand in an area in which seasonal underemploy-
ment is prevalent. The foreign exchange costs and benefits were adjusted up-
ward by 15% to reflect trade-distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance import
deposits, export taxes and quantitative restrictions. Of the products pro-
duced under the project, Brazil is net exporter of cotton, orange juice,
coffee, sugar and bananas. Price differentials between short and medium
staple cotton were taken into consideration in the economic analysis.
9.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic environ-
ment on the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensitivity tests
were made, the results of the most significant are as follows:
Internal Economic Rate of Return
(%)
Best Estimate           :   19             Costs up by 20% and
Costs up by 20%             16               benefits down by 20%            :  13
Benefits down by 20%        15             Delay of one year in
Costs up by 10% and                          farmers' participation          :  16
benefits down by 20%      14             Inclusion of demonstration
benefits                       :  22
The estimated return of the project is enhanced by its expected contribution
to export earnings. Brazil is a net exporter of cotton, coffee, oranges, sugar
and bananas and it is expected that in the years of project maturity the in-
cremental annual value of these products will be substantial, on the order of
US$23.0 million equivalent. On the other hand, the foreign exchange component
of project costs is relatively small. With regard to the sensitivity of project
returns, even if costs were increased and benefits reduced by 20%, the inter-
nal economic rate of return would still be an acceptable 13%. If demonstration
benefits are included, the "best estimate" rate of return would increase to
about 22% (i.e., reflecting incremental production derived indirectly from
demonstration effects and use of the project-improved services and infra-
structure by farmers other than the "direct participants".)
9.06      In addition to direct benefits accruing to the estimated 60,000 pro-
ject farm family participants and 1,100 small scale enterprises, and to demons-
tration benefits (para 9.05), the benefits of the social infrastructure com-
ponents (education and vocational training and health and sanitation services)
would have a wide coverage and would accrue to some 1.2 million of the
rural population living in the micro-regions selected for project activities.



- 45 -
Though impossible to quantify, the benefits of the improved health and educa-
tion services would be reflected in the improved capacity of project partici-
pants to achieve project production targets, and also in the improved income
prospects and social welfare of the state's rural population.
Employment
9.07      A survey of the present situation and patterns of employment in
Ceara shows that, similar to most other Northeastern states, there is a sub-
stantial flow of migration from rural to urban areas. In the case of Ceara,
much of this flow is to the metropolitan area of Fortaleza. Furthermore,
while unemployment of off-farm workers occurs in many areas, there is a
general shortage of available workers on most farms during peak season. How-
ever, the farm labor force is generally utilized inefficiently, and the pro-
posed project activities would improve in the first instance the family em-
ployment situation. Expansion of agricultural activities and-better utili-
zation of on-farm labor resources by most participating farmers, would create
new agricultural employment opportunities equivalent to some 46,000 worker-
years annually; this amount would almost totally (96%) be met by family labor.
In addition, the development by the project of 1,100 small non-farm'enterpri-
ses would create employment opportunities for some 2,200 workers (about 2
additional employment opportunities per enterprise). Additional employment
opportunities in services and commerce are also expected to be generated as
the project develops.
9.08      The project aims to improve farm family income, and considers the
whole family as a productive unit. In addition to providing additional work
opportunities on the farm for the women and children, the small-scale non-
agricultural enterprises component would enable family members, and especially
women, to engage in remunerative activities not necessarily tied to the
farm, such as embroidery, lace making, and production of preserves. The ex-
tension service and health programs focus on the needs of the whole family,
with the social extensionist dealing principally with non-agricultural aspects
of village life. Women participated at all levels of the preparation team and
will be actively included in the implementation team, ensuring that continued
attention will be given to the role of women.
Project Risks
9.09      The proposed project is complex, and there are clearly risks asso-
ciated with the large number of agencies and activities involved and the
varying and difficult socio-economic and ecological conditions within the
state. However, these risks were recognized during project preparation and
the state has taken special care to analyze the proposals from technical,
economic, institutional and policy points of view. The risk of not achieving
adequate coordination among and active participation by participating agen-
cies should be lessened by the arrangements being made by the state to use
existing agencies for project planning and implementation, to involve direct-
ly high level officials of the principal participating agencies in-the State
Rural Development Council, and to establish a special Project Coordination
and Management Unit. The state views the project as an important-part of its
intermediate and long-term development strategies and it has very strong
political commitment to it. Another project risk is that the execution



- 46 -
of this state-wide rural development project will depend on the annual detail-
ing of plans of operations for each component, and the annual updating of a
moving state-wide five-year rural development plan. While for some activities
this should not represent serious problems, for others, which are new, signi-
ficant upgrading of the execution and planning capacity of the institutions
involved will be required. Another problem which may contribute to delays in
project implementation is the present situation of the POLONORDESTE program,
through which most project financing will be channelled. As noted in para
3.03, this program suffers from a number of administrative weaknesses, par-
ticularly at the regional and federal levels. Although key officials have
committed themselves to improving management of the program, the speed with
which necessary corrective measures are adopted will affect the quality and
rate of implementation of all POLONORDESTE-financed projects, including that
now proposed. There is also, for some crops, the additional risk that expected
yields (and hence expected producers' incomes) would not be attained because
of unusually adverse natural conditions or unforeseen technical problems.
However, the highly diversified agricultural plans, the various alternative
farm types, the project experimentation and extension services, and the mar-
keting arrangements made should help alleviate risks and resolve problems of
these types. Overall, the potential of the project to benefit some 400,000
lower income people with its directly productive components, as well as an
even larger number with improved health and education services, and the steps
being taken to strengthen the project-execution capacity of executing insti-
tutions, make the risks acceptable.
Fiscal Impact
9.10      Existing Government agricultural development policies do not call
for low-income farmers to pay for costs in agricultural services or social
infrastructure, though villages often do contribute to the maintenance of
such facilities once infrastructure is developed. The costs of the roads
are recovered indirectly through various taxes and license fees on road users.
Many of the costs associated with the project -- i.e., on-farm development,
land clearing and development for the settlement schemes, small non-
agricultural enterprises -- would be partially recovered through the credit
system. The extent to which these costs will be recovered in real terms is
difficult to estimate because of the current inflationary environment in
Brazil and the Government's policy of providing heavily subsidized agricul-
tural credit. Assuming continuing inflation, real recovery of on-farm costs
related to the project could well be low. On the other hand, either a more
rapid decline in inflation or a continuation of the gradual reduction in the
size of agricultural credit subsidies -- linked to a gradual dismantling of
control over agricultural prices -- would result in higher real cost reco-
very. Although the increased production of the beneficiaries of the project
would probably enable them to bear the burden of positive real interest rates
for credit received, the Government has so far chosen, particularly in view
of the relatively low incomes of the target beneficiaries for special rural
development programs, to maintain a considerable subsidy in agricultural
credit.
9.11      Following the project disbursement period, project activities would
give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government in order of about
US$4.3 million per annum. These expenses would be incurred principally for



- 47 -
agricultural extension and experimentation, but would also include some
residual project administration costs as well as the continued operating costs
of the improved health system and the training and formal education facilities.
The additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however, to be totally
offset by additional revenues of roughly US$5.8 million annually generated
as a result of a value added tax, the Tax on Product Circulation (ICM), and
the Assistance Fund for Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) which would apply to most
incremental production from direct participants in the agricultural components
of the project.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were received from the Federal
Government that:
(a) it would take all necessary steps to ensure the annual availability
of adequate seasonal and investment crop credit to project bene-
ficiaries (para 4.43);
(b) it would provide adequate funding to assure maintenance of current-
ly on-going rural development activities in the project area, and
timely and effective execution of the project and adequate operation
and maintenance of the facilities and services developed under the
project (para 5.02);
(c) it would provide the Bank with quarterly project progress reports
promptly upon their preparation (para 6.05);
(d) it would provide the Bank with a project mid-term evaluation report
by June 30, 1983, and with a project completion report within six
months of project completion (para 6.06);
(e) it would take all necessary steps to ensure the compatibility and
coordination of rural development activities in the state (para
6.09);
(f) it would advise the Bank of the approved project work program by the
beginning of the applicable POLONORDESTE fiscal year (para 6.09);
and
(g) it would provide appropriate periodic audit statements satisfactory
to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para
6.12).



- 48 -
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were received from the state
of Ceara that:
(a) consultants for assisting in the field study and development plan
of cooperative societies, education and vocational training, health
and sanitation, feeder and access roads, small irrigation schemes
and project coordination and administration components would be
contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras
4.17, 4.22, 4.27, 4.29, 4.33 and 4.39);
(b) the PCMU would furnish to the Bank the cooperative society develop-
ment plans by April 1, 1981 (para 4.17);
(c) by September 30 each year, it would send to the Bank for approval
the site plans for the schools and rural education centers to
be built in the next project year, including the justification for
the location (para 4.19);
(d) prior to initiating component execution in a project municipality,
it would enter into appropriate agreement with the municipality
providing, inter alia, that the head of Municipal Government
would, by December 31, 1983, present to the respective legisla-
tive body a bill to establish a teachers' charter (Estatuto do
Magisterio) to define teachers' rights and duties, privileges
and obligations (paras 4.19 and 4.20);
(e)  by August 31 each year, pre-investment studies of the rural water
supply systems to be implemented during the coming year, would be
presented to the Bank, and that prior to starting construction of
a particular system, the recipient community would have established
its society or group, and agreed to finance the operation and
maintenance costs of the system during and after project life
(para 4.27);
(f)  the PCMU would provide for Bank comments, by April 1, 1981 for
the first year and subsequently by September 30 each year in the
annual plan of operations, the plan for contracting consultants
for design and supervision of construction of the roads to be
designed and built in the coming year (para 4.29);
(g) all road maintenance equipment procured under the project would
be run and maintained by DAER-CE and used solely for maintenance
of municipal and state roads in the project area (para 4.30);
(h) by April 1, 1981, the state would provide, for Bank comment, a
five-year plan for advancing to and recuperating from the munici-
palities funds for road maintenance (para 4.30);



- 49 -
(i) an agreement would be signed between DAER-CE and each municipality
before the start of any project-financed road improvements, where-
by such municipalities would undertake to submit annually and exe-
cute (with defined DAER-CE's assistance), a program for maintaining
at least the improved access and feeder roads and would allocate
sufficient funds for this purpose (para 4.30);
(j) by December 31, 1981, and December 31, 1982 the state would
provide, for Bank comments, the results of the consultants' studies
on improvement of collector roads for each respective year; and
by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1984 respectively, it would have
completed improvements in those roads studied (para 4.31);
(k) required personnel would be contracted and posted in each DAER-CE
office (paras 4.30 and 4.31);
(1) prior to preparation of detailed plans for any small-scale
irrigation scheme requiring more than a total of US$100,000 in
off-farm and on-farm investments, the Bank would be provided
with a preliminary analysis of the scheme for comment (para 4.33);
(m)  prior to starting engineering assistance for a particular small-
scale irrigation scheme, the recipients would have already been
organized as a group, and agreed formally to assume the responsibility
for financing the construction, operation and maintenance costs
of the system during and after project execution (para 4.33);
(n) the location and construction plans for the 3 central wholesale
marketing warehouses would be provided to the Bank for agreement
prior to the initiation of construction (para 4.36);
(o) the state would assure, through agreements with local banks,
adequate credit to non-farm enterprises assisted under the
project; and assistance by CEAG-CE under the project would be
provided only to small-scale non-agricultural enterprises with
less than 10 employees, fixed assets of under 200 MVR, monthly
sales under 85 MVR and a maximum monthly owner income, from other
sources, of under 8 MVR (para 4.38);
(p) by June 30, 1981, a project Credit Statistics and Monitoring
System would be established (para 4.43);
(q) it would provide adequate funding to assure maintenance of on-going
state-funded rural development activities in the project area and it
would arrange for timely acquisition and necessary financing of any
additional land or rights-of-way needed for project works (para
5.02);
(r) it would adequately maintain the PCMU and support the other state
agencies participating in the project (para 6.01);



- 50 -
(s) it would standardize data requirements among participating agencies
and would provide the Bank, for review and comment, with the details
of monitoring/data analysis and farm survey plans prior to their
implemintation but no later than April 1, 1981 (para 6.05);
(t) the terms of reference of the studies carried out aned/or contracted
by the PCMU should be approved by the Bank and that these studies
would be provided to the Bank within three months of their com-
pletion (para 6.07);
(u) it would take all necessary steps to ensure the compatibility
and coordination of rural development activities in the state
(para 6.09); and
(v) it would enter into and maintain all such special agreements as are
necessary to assure full and active cooperation of the various
agencies participating in the project components (para 6.10).
10.03     Conditions of disbursement for schools and education centers in the
education and vocational training component would be that the Bank had been
provided with satisfactory evidence that the respective sites had been legally
acquired (para 4.22); and for the warehouses in the marketing component
that the respective sites had been legally acquired (para 4.36). Conditions
of disbursement for the land cadastral surveys, titling and purchase; agricul-
tural cooperative society development, education and vocational training,
health and sanitation, marketing and small non-agricultural enterprises
components would also be the provision to the Bank of the agreements between
the state and agencies participating in the respective component (paras 4.14,
4.17, 4.22, 4.27, 4.36 and 4.38).
10.04     With the above assurances and conditions the project is recommended
for a Bank loan of US$56 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years with
a grace period of three years.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards - Municipal Roads
BNDE/DNER FINANCED FEEDER ROADS -t       PROJECT FINANCED
Cross-Slope
of Natural  Full Length Road Improvements           Spot Improvements
Description                  Cround        Ciass D              Class E             Class F
Design Speed                      50%         60                    50          Not
(km/h)                         20X          40                   40           applicable
70%         30                   30
Min. Radius for                    5%        110                    70          no improvement unless
Horizontal Curves (m)             20%         50                   45           exceptional conditions
70%         30                   40           require widening at curve
Max. Grade (%)                     5%          6                     8          no improvement unless roadbed material
20%          8                   10           and grade combine to make ascent
70%         10                   12           impossible during the rains.
Minimum Stopping Sight             5%         75               
Distance (m)                    20%          50
70%         50                    -
Min. Platform                      5%          7.0*                  6.0*       3.50m plus ditches 3/
Width (mi)                      20%           7.0*                 6.0*        3.50m plus ditches 3/
70%          7.0*                  6.0*       3.50m plus ditches 31
Stream Crossings                  -       Culverts &        Culverts and        Culverts and paved fords unless depth and
Bridges           Bridges or Fords   duration of high water dictates a bridge.
Surfacing                                 C Gravel          Gravel or se-       Spot selected material where essential
lected material    for vehicular passage
Approximate ADT (v.p.d.)          -       50-100                 0-75                  > 0
1/ To be applied for collector road improvements
2/ Priority on water crossing, drainage improvements and steep grades.
3/ Passing bays as required
* Includes ditches



- 52 -                                           -    iUANN   2
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Phasing of Project: Costs-
(US$ 000')
,Baseline   Foreign
Project Activity                       Year I Year II Year III  Year IV  Year V   Total  Cost X   Exchange Z
1.  Agricultural Services
1.1  Agric. Extension                   1,494   3,149    5,141       7,150  *8,820   25.754    21.5    12
1.2  Agric. ExperimentatiOn               303     426       416        405     395    1,945      1.6    10
1.3 Land Cadastral Surveys,
Titling and Purchase             2,114   3,429    6,516        6,275   3,626   21,960    18.4      6
1.4  Cooperative Society Development      233     308       328        358     261    1,488      1.3    10
Sub-total                         4,142   7,312   12,402      14,188  13,102  51,147    42.8       9
2. Social Infrastructure
2.1 Education and Vocational
Training                          1,583   1,543    1,499       1,270   1,084    6,979      5.8    15
2.2  Health and Sanitation              2,580   2,631    2,619       2.620   2,203   12,653    10.6    25
Sub-total                         4,163   4,174    4,118       3,890   3,287   19,632    16.4    21
3. Physical Infrastructure
3.1  Feeder & Access Roads              6:018   7,091    9,386       5,422   4,943   32,860    27.5    33
3.2  Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes       230     244       239        308     321    1,342      1.1    10
3.3  Marketing and Storage Facilities   .260      710       653        639     150    2,412      2.0    20
Sub-total                        6,508   8,045   10,278       6,369   5,414'  36,614    30.6    31
4.  Small-Scale Non-Agric. Enterprises        159     133       245        396     418    1,351      1.1    12
5.  Coordination, Management and Studies   1,196   2,219    2,446        2,374   2,669   j0,904      9.1    1.
Total Baseline Costs                   16,170  21,883   29,488      27,217  24,890  119,648   lo.O    18
6. Contingencies
6.1  Physical                           1,438   1,955    2,653       2,371   2,110   10,527      8.8    18
6.2  Price                                930   3,401    7,476       9,653  11,557   33,017    27.6    18
Sub-total                       2,368   5,356   10,129       12,0Z4  13,667   43,544    36.4    18
Total Project Costs                    18,538  27,239   39,617      39,241  38,557  163,192   136.4    18
1/  Including local taxes but excluding agricultural credit and credit for small-scale non-agricultural enterprises.



- 53 _                               ANNEX 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
Calendar         Quarter            Disbursed        Amount          Balance of
Year           Ending           During Quarter   Disbursed            Loan
1980           Sept. 30               0.0              0.0            56.0'
Dec. 31               0.0              0.0            56.0'
1981           March 31               1.5              1.5            54.5
June 30               2.0              3.5            52.5
Sept. 30              2.5              6.0            50.0
Dec. 31               2.5              8.5            47.5
1982           March 31               2.5             11.0            45.0
June 30               2.5             13.5            42.5
Sept. 30              2.6             16.1            39.9
Dec. 31               3.4             19.5            36.5
1983           March 31               3.4            22.9             33.1
June 30               3.4             26.3            29.7
Sept. 30              3.4             29.7            26.3
Dec. 31               3.4             33.1            22.9
1984           March 31               3.4             36.5            19.5
June 30               3.4             39.9            16.1
Sept. 30              3.4             43.3            12.7
Dec. 31               3.2            46.5              9.5
1985           March 31              3.2             49.7              6.3
June 30              3.2             52.9              3.1
Sept. 30             3.1             56.0              0.0'



- 54 -                        ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Executing      Main Collaborating
Activity/Component                     Agencies            Agencies
1. Agricultural Services
-  Agricultural Extension             EMATER-CE           EMBRATER
-  Agricultural Experimentatian       EPACE               EMBRAPA
-  Land Surveying, Titling and        ITERCE              INCRA, CEPA-CE,
Purchase                                              EMATER-CE
-  Input Supply                       CODAGRO             EMATER-CE
-  Agricultural Credit                BB, BNB, BNCC       EMATER-CE
-  Cooperative Society Development   OCEC                 INCRA, EMATER-CE
-  Seeds and Sappling Production      OCEC, EPACE         EMATER-CE
-  Produce Sorting and Marketing      SAAB                OCEC
2. Social Infrastructure
-  Education & Vocational Training   SEC, FUNSESCE        Municipalities
-  Health and Sanitation              SES                 SOEC
3. Physical Infrastructure
-  Feeder and Access Roads            DAER-CE             Municipalities
-  Small-scale Irrigation Schemes    CRH                  SOEC, SUDEC
-  Marketing and Storage Facilities  CODAGRO, COBAL       EMATER-CE
4. Small-scale Non-agricultural
Enterprises                          CEAG-CE             FUNSESCE
5.  Project Coordination & Management    PCMU in SEPLAN



-55-                                                ANNEX 5
NORTHIEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PROJECT YEAR
Component/Activity                                                                             IV
1. Aricultural Services
11  Agricultural Extension
- Recruitment and Training of Agents
- Provision of Extension Services                         _
- Training of Farmers
1.2 Aaricultural Experimentation
- Experimentation
- Establishment of Observation/
Demonstration siteas on farmers plots
1.3 Land Cadastral Surveys, Titlins and
Purchase
- Establishment of Pield Units and
Implementation of Cadastral Surveys                                |_|
- Surveying and Titling of Parmers Holdings
- Land Purchase and Planning of Settlments                          _                        _
1.4 Cooperative Society Development
- Field Study and Coop. Society
Development Plan
- Technical and Managerial Assistance                                _
- Production of Improved Seeds                                       ___
- Setting up and Operation of Production
Marketing and Input Supply Facilities                -
2. Social Infrastructure
2.1  Education & Vocational Training
- Construction and tquipping of Schools and
Learning Centers
- Training and Upgrading of Personnel
- Training of Farmers
2.2 Health and Sanitation
- Upgrading and Construction of
Physical Infrastructure                                                                     -
- Training of Personnel                                         -
3. Physical Infrastructure
3.1 Roads
- Planning                                                  ____
- Building and constructing
3.2  Small-scale Irrigstion Schemes
-Planning|_
- Construction                                            _   _                      _    _
3.3 Markatinat Activities
- Expansion of the Guaranteed
Crop Purchasing Mechanism
- Planning and Construction of the
Expansion of the Produce Classi-
fication System_____
- Planning and Construction of the
Wholesale Marketing System
4.  Small-scale Non-agricultural Enterprises
- Recruitment and Training of Staff
- Training of Entrepreneurs
5.  Pro1ect Coordination and Management
- Setting up of the PCMU
- Carrying out Planning                                    |          |          |           _
-Supervision and Monitoring of
Implementation                                  _       |_____|                        _
- Carrying out of Evaluation Studies                       |          |--____
- Carrying out of Mid-term and Post-
Proj ect Evaluation
- Carrying out of Special Studies                          | __ __   _            _



-56 -
tortheast StarfI                                                           ZIF 
Projeclt Uortr.tcn C     rd KanJ3erar'r Char:t
Stacte Council .for trCotrs    of 1 State
Integrarad Rural                       -
LDevLopazen
_-_______-_-         _                             ._   . _. _._. _. _.~~~~~~~~~~~. -_.  _.        < t           _         1
Secretary for P1a=L3a3
r Coo7Cl1tica
CEPA-CE                1
Cowxultativ* Cotacil for
1tt3c  ted Rural                                Co?rdinator for Integrated
D&vdlop=&c for S.ajL                                 Rural Development
Thdt for Integraced Eu-Ll                                                                     Unlt_for_Monitoring_  Evalu-
lopa a t Planningi -t r_                                                                    t ation and Special Studies
State Planning aucr
Coordiratioi La,s.,
Couulitrive ?eglowa          1                 Ragion"  Covordinstcr for
Coaueil for Iutegratad                         In -    Itegrated RuraL DOewlopuatI
1=21 Develcpm.t             J|
tRagionial Technical Planning    l
and Coordiuatioe  Utit         In
Regional Plannfcg and
field IMp,anrarSE100
g                       P~~~~~~ield l cpletm-rtatian



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
(in USS '000 - efficiency prices)
------------------------------------------YEARS ---------------------------------------------------------------
I/          1         2         3        4         5         6        7          8          9       10        11        12      13-25
Incremental Benefit Streams
Net Farm Benefits                        -18,160  -5,035   5,070    13,363   22,460   27,038   30,607    32,190    33,882   35,242   35,532   35,657  35,726
Net Small-Scale Non-agricultural
Enterprises Benefits                  .   117  -  122   - 192    -  310   -  521    1,197    1,482           1,640     1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640   1,640
TOTAL                            -18,277  -5,157   4,878    13,053   22,338   28,235   32,089    33,830    35,522   36,882   37,172   37,297  37,366
Cost Streams
Rural Entension                            1,435   3,026    4,941    6,872    8,477    5,934    5,637          5,356     5,088    4,833       -         -        -
Agricultural Experimentation                 322     453       443       431       421     -         -          -          -         -        -         -        -
Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land
Titling and Purchase                      2,320   3,765    7,143    6,889    3,974        -         -          -          -        -         _         -        _
Agri.-Cooperative Society Development        248     328       350       382       378     -         -          -          -         -        -         -        -
Feeder and Access Roads                    6,812   8,025   10,623    6,137    5,594    2,238    2,238          2,238     2,238    2,238    2,238    2,238   2,238
Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes               267     283       277       357      373      -         -          -         -         -         -         -        -
Marketing Activities                         413     737       717       738      160       112       104       104        104      104       -         -        -
Small-Scale Non Agri. Enterprises            207     168       296       457      484       315       315      315        315       315       -         -        -
Coordination, Management and Studies    1,048   1,720    1,869    1,u22    2,016    1,613    1,210              806       403       202       -         -        -
TOTAL                               13,072   18,505   26,659   24,085   21,877   10,212    9,504          8,819      8 ,148    7,692    2,238    2,238   2,238  
Net Benefit Stream                    - 31,349  -23,662  -21,780  -11,032         461   18,023   22,585    25,011    27,374   29,190   34,934   35,059  35,128  a
Internal Rate of Return                   19%                                                                                                                             .
1/ Net of Taxes
SOURCE: WORLD BANK Mission, June 1980



- 58 -
Annex 8
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                          Page 1
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
U,ricultural Planning, Technical Coefficients and
Illustrative Farm Models
Planning Process
1.      Comprehensive planning for the various types of agriculture practiced
within the state was accomplished by dividing the state into eight Regional
Planning Units (RPUs), according to agroecologic characteristics, (see Annex 10)
and developing a special development strategy for each region. Agricultural diff-
erences within regions remain very wide, however. Characterization of existing
cropping patterns and cultivation techniques was based on an on-farm survey of 600
farms, executed by CEPA-CE in 1978 in the four RPUs of Inhamuns e Salgado, Quixer-
amobim e Medio Jaguaribe, Cariri and Baturite. This survey was updated and
amplified during project preparation. Within each RPU, the area of greatest
agricultural potential was identified and activities in this area were planned
to start in the initial years of project implementation. There are three basic
systems of agriculture being practiced in the state: (a) Sertao systems, in
which perennial cotton is intercropped with various annual crops, usually corn
and beans, livestock is grazed on an extensive basis, and development is constrained
by lack of moisture. Rainfall is usually around 600 mm/year. Where water is
available, due to proximity to a river or lake, rice is cultivated in the 'vazante',
the moist region that remains around the edge of a lake as waters recede; (b) Serra
systems, located in the various hilly regions of Baturite, Ibiapaba and Cariri, which
have higher rainfall (higher than 1,000 mm/annum) and more streams, are based on the
intensive cultivation of high value vegetable crops, bananas and some fruit such as
urucu and oranges. Sugar cane is grown in the flat areas, contiguous to the hills,
where streams flowing from the higher rainfall areas permit irrigation; and (c)
Litoral/Vale and Aluviao systems, in areas where soils and rainfall are more favorable
than the sertao products, but climatic and soil conditions also permit extensive
cultivation of fruit trees (coconut, carnauba, cashew, soursop, and oranges).
Crop Selection and Farm Model Development
2.     Crops to be developed within a given RPU, and their relative weights
within a farm model, were selected with the aid of linear programming techniques.
Crop budgets were developed for the various potentially attractive crops and
intercropping systems, with technological options and yields set at levels to
reflect five years of on-farm development, and differentiated by farm size,
ownership status, and micro-regions. Farm models were then defined with maximum
constraints on family and hired labor availability, total area under cultivation,
and area suitable for a crop with critical soil and water requirements (rice,
vegetables). Minimum constraints were placed on areas under certain traditional
intercropping systems, which are unlikely to disappear due to their drought resis-
tant characteristics (perennial cotton/corn/beans is the main example). Within
these boundaries, the linear program maximized the revenue obtained by the farmer
in the fifth year of the development of his farm. This planning was then adjusted
to fit into a natnra'i development trend for farms, evolving from those characterized in
survey results to the proposed system.



-59-                            Annex 8
Page 2
3.      Some 33 illustrative farm models were defined in order to represent
potential agricultural development in the eight RPUs of the state . Within
a given-planning region, models were developed in order to reflect different
agricultural potential as limited by climate and soils; tenancy differences
between sharecroppers and. owners; the impact of land purchase on development;
and farm size differences. All regions have one or more representative share-
cropper models, and various sizes of farm owner models where different cropping
patterns warranted them.
Expected Development Impact
4.      The agricultural impact of the proposed project would vary within each
of the three agricultural systems: (a) in the appropriate areas of the sertao
farmers would be encouraged to plant certain annual cotton varieties which have
shown drought risistance and much higher yields than the tree cotton varieties,
using improved seeds, better management techniques including diseases and pest
control, and fertilizers whaere appropriate; in other sertao areas tree cotton
would continue to be grown, attempts to stem and reverse the long-term trend in
falling y-ields would be made, improved seeds will be produced and research in
adequate farming practices will be strengthened; rice would be encouraged where
moisture is available; (b) in the serra regions, the project would promote expansion
of fruit trees, vegetables and sugar cane, using irrigation where water is available;
use of improved planting stock for fruit trees would be encouraged, as would use
of improved seed, organic and chemical fertilizers and other chemical inputs; and
(c) in the litoral, vale and aluviao regions, the emphasis would be on the expansion
of fruit crops and substitution of perennial cotton varieties with herbaceous (annual)
varieties. Existing stands of cashew, urucu, soursop, oranges and coconuts would be
improved, with support provided for fruit tree diversification within the farm, a
trend which already exists. Improved fruit tree maintenance techniques and fertili-
zation. would also be introduced. Detailed input-output data are given in Table 1
of this Annex.
5.    Rates of return to on-farm investment were calculated on the farmer benefit
from incremental production, net of family labor costs imputed at the market wage.
These rates of return varied between 15 and 50% with the highest returns going to
farms in the serra and litoral regions, with fruit and vegetable potential, as
could be expected. A review of the financial and income results of the analysis
is presented in Chapter VII of the main report. The type of analysis used is shown
for three of the models, in tables 2, 3 and 4, as are summary tables for all the
models, and crop budget data for the project. The three models chosen represent
the results of: (i) a sharecropper purchasing land in the high plains in Cariri;
(ii) a small owner-operator in the cotton producing sertao of Quixeramobim, the
center of cotton production for the state; and (iii) a small owner-operator in
the Litoral , diversifying into the production of fruit trees.



COV7ECOCaCC                                                  j  Ca 
-- 000   flOft  flOflCOOft                                                              000.0 C
5Q700C=    * COO    ftftp*ft ft 000  ft   - * ft                  oft ft  ft - ft 0   ft 00CC           CC
00000CC  ft SCCOCO    0                   CCC       0000  ft 000000             0
w                         CCC                   ft =   CC
=   -   0.0.00.   0.00    0
'                     em:    *                                     0.0        '0
C   0:ft0  005
"rWOCCW  ftft                                                OW  WWZ.,W J
                                       CCCCCA   0CO00C'ftOO0O 0CC
O1CCJ        ft  C,    ft rr  C"                   'a
CO  CC      rrrr'                     0.           ftCC 0       -'--  o                  S  CC
oCft                                                0
CC                                           S
.1  .1
- SC C C C  *;2      . ":   . . ..
--  .Ca  C                       CCCCCCCCC  CCC *
L                                                F
I.'-
ft            j                                                 C
[C
*          Is .1   Ca
COCO I
* C C CC  C C *                                                                                   Oft C
CCCCCCCCCC.CCC CU' 0010
I#.                                            CA    '   00
5                                           [
I                                                                 N CO CCCCCCCC   CCC 20   C..
r                              CO
5. CCCC  C. CC                                         @C
Ii                                                 -                                                   '0'0 I
00                                             -.                                                     no
*1                                  C  C   C  C  C  C    -  Cl
*  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C                                                                     I
Ca 00    C CCCCCCCCCCC   CCC Ca U' 00
3"  C C Ca CCCCCC   CftOC                                - C C  CCCCCCCC                       C
0.  --  -                           ..  e                  -       0                                     V0
2.                               C  C  C   C  C   C             C  C      C                C   C  C  C   C
Sn                                                 *           C C   C C C C C C                      00

I
* CCC* CC                       C    .CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCAC
a   :
*  C  C    C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C    C    C      CC
Os                                                  C                                                  II
*5                                                                                                     I       -
CO.                                              III                                                   j       0
I       0
L1                                                           CC
3 C C CCC CC               C Ca    C                .CCCCCCCCCCCC   CCC CO    I 00
-                     Ca    Ca                        Ca
S
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC                                  Ca                                            '0'0
ft    CCCCCCC   C CCC  CC    CC  Ca C *A C1C                 ICC
F=
CaM    C  -   C   C  C  Ca  Ca  !       C                                                      -J     0
-                                                           *C
'IC0  Ca   C   CO   C   C   C   C   ft   C   Ca   C    C   C  C   C  C   C  (ft
C                                                   CA ft ft
C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  I     Ca                                 Ca  .C  Oft
C    -                                               C
F
C C   CCCCCC   CCC  C   C C C CU' 00
Ca C CSC  C C C C         C      CC  C C        r        Ca                                           0
CaC      CA           C        C C ftC    C C Ca   CN            jft
Ca                               -        COFI'    -   CaftCO
Can                    I, OCI  Ca                          Ca  %CCC
COCCI
II                                                  ""
C. CCCC    C C C               CCCCCC   C C C C C C C  C C C C C 0CC I ft
C                                                            IC,
Ii                           ft C C     CO
Ca                                          LC.CI      CO    CC
ft   C  C  C  C  C  C                   C    Ca  C  Ca  C  ft  C       Ca    2  C
C    C    C    C    C    C    C   C    C    C    C    C    C  C    C    C    Ca  C    CC  C    C    C    C    C    C    C  C    C   C    IIr
I Ii
  I           Ca C C C ft C Ca C   2   B  C Ca   IF
SC  CS  C C C C C Ca C C   38C            3    -                                                 I-Il
C  C    C  C    C    C    C  C    C    C    C    C    C  C    C    C    C    oaoI  C    C    C    C    C    C  C    C    C  C    C    C    C  C    C  C  C    ICCIC'O
CI[
r IF                                                 0
Ca C CS  C C C - C Ca - C CO  CO@C  C                                                -        p II
C    CA  CO        Ca  ftC  CC          0                -   *        - IiII
Ca                  Is OCI   CC  CCOCC   CACCaU   00  C COO  10.1
*09



Annex 8
- 61 -                           Table 2
Page 1 of 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Region 8 -; Cariri
Farm Model Two
(Non-owner, Chapada)
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern
(ha)
Development Years
Crops                     Base Year   1        2        3       4        5
Moco Cotton, Corn, Beans       .7      .7       .6      .5       .4      .4
2nd/3rd year Moco Cotton    1.5       1.3     1.2     1.0       .9       .8
Manioc, Beans                2.0      1.9     1.8      1.6     1.5      1.5
2nd year Manioc              2.0      1.9     1.8     1.7      1.6     1.5
Pineapples                    -        .1      .2       .3      .3       .3
Total Cropped Area           6.2     9.9      5.6     5.1      4.7     4.5
Farm Size: 6.2 ha



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RURAt DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION 8 (CA*1RX
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL TWO (LNDLS CHAP)
(TN  CR)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1986      1989      1994
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT-
S            E                                 4    8   43        4    8   4     8   4     8   4     8 _3          4     8   4
GRTOS VALUlE                                41,358   41.358   41,358   41.358   41.358   41.358   41.358   41.358   41.358
-tOTAL TNrLOW                                  4i,358   41,358   41,358   41,358   41,358   41,358   4i,358   41.358   4t,358
-   ON-rARM CONSUMPTION                          5,161    5,161    5.161    5,161    5.161    5.161    5.t61    5.16t    5.161
- NET INFLOW                                    36,197   36.197   36.197   36,197   36,197   36.197   36.197   36.197   36.197
DIRECT PRODUJCTION COST                      1.803    1,803    1.803    1,803    1.803    1.803    1.803    1,803    1.803               I
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                   1,803    1,803    1,803    1.803    1,803    1.803    1.803    1.803    1.803              C'
NtT FARM CASN FLOW                            34,394   34,394   34,394   34,394   34.394   34,394   34.394   34.394   34.394               
ON-FARM CONSUMP7ION                          5,161    5.161    5,161    5,J61    5.161    5.161    5.161    5.161    5.161
* NON-PROOUCTION OUTFLOW                         5,161    5.161    5,161    5.161    5.161    5.161    5.161    5.161    5,161-
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                24.908   24,908   24,908   24.908   24,908   24.908   24.908   24.908   24.908
NEr FARM BENEFIT                               14.647   14,647   14,647   14.647   14.647   14.647   14.647   14.647   14.647
1/ A static ...... wlthout project situation implies that the long-term trend of                            N ^
slowly declining agricultural yields would have been halted by improvements
in overall agricultural services that would have occurred without the project.
o



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION 8 (CARIRI
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL TWO (LNOLS CHAP)
(IN CRI
----------------------------------- ------------- ----------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1979     19BO     1981     1982      1983     1984      1986     1989     1994
(BASE YR)
WITII PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                               41.358   40.654   55.099   68.435   67.631   68.377   68.377   68.377   68.377
TOTAL INFLOW                                41,358   40,654   55.099   68.435   67.63t   68.377   68,377   68.377   68.377
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        5.161    4.619    4,770    4.770    4.770    4.770    4.770    4.770    4.770
- NFT INFLOW                                  36.197   36.035   50.330   63.665   62.862   63.607   63.607   63,607   63,607
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                     1,803    4.048    4.764    5.655    5.949    6.168    6 294    6.294    6.294          t
INVESTMENTS                                    0   57.786   47,461    9.961    9.961    9.961    9.961    9.961    9.961         0
- I07AL OUTFLOW                                1,803   61.834   52,225   15.616   15.910   16.129   16.255   16.255   16.255          w
-NrT FARM CASH FLOW                         34,394  -25,799   -1.896   48.049   46,952   47,478   47;352   47.352   47.352
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        5,161    4.619    4.770    4.770    4,770    4,770    4.770    4.770    4.770
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       5,161    4.619    4.770    4.770    4,770    4.770    4.770    4.770    4.770
-tFSS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST             24.908   22.716   20.868   18.999   18.166   18.115   18.115   18.115   18.115
NET FARM BENEFIT                            14.647  -43,895  -17.994   33,820   33.556   34.133   34.007   34.007   34.007
't lb P
OQ a- c
ID ~4fl5
m
0
Fh



NORThEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWInE RURAL DFVFI.nPMFNT PPODECT - REGION 8 (CARIRI
* FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL TWO (LNOLS CHAP)
(IN  CR)
--------------  ----------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1986       1989      1994
(BASE YR)
INCRFMFNTAI
GROSS VALUE                                        0      -703   13,742   27.078   26,274   27.019   27,0t9   27.019   27.019
TOTAL INFLOW                                         0      -703   13,742   27.078   26.274   27,019   27.019   27.019   27,019
ON-rARM CONSuMPTION                                0      -542      -391       -391      -391      -391      -391      -391       -391
NET INrLOW                                            0      -162   14.133   27,469   26.665   27.411    27.411   27.411   27.411
DIRECT PRODlJCTIUN COST                            0    2.245    2,962    3.852    4,146    4.365           4.491     4.491     4,491
INVESTMENTS                                        0   57.786   47.461    9.961    9.961    9.961           9.961     9,961    9,961
- tOTAL OUTFLOW                                        0   60.031   50,423   13,813   14.107    14,326    14.452    14.452    14.452
= NFF FARM CASI FLOW                                    0  -60,193  -36,290   13.655   12.558    13.084    12,958    12.958   12.958
ON-rARM CONSUIMPTION                               0      -542      -391       -391      -391      -391      -391      -391       -391
* NON-PROflL)CTION OlUTFLOW                             0      -542      -391      -391      -391      -391      -391       -391      -391
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                       0   -2.193   -4.041   -5,909   -6.742   -6,793   -6,793   -6.793   -6,793
NET FARM BENEFIT                                      0  -58.542  -32,641    19.173   18,909   19.486    19,360   19,360   19.360
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 17.98 %.
>
Cl m
oQ I oo
I) 0)
0
1-h



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CARIRI MODEL TWO (LANDLESS CHAPADA)
-----------------------------------
DEBT SERVICES AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
-------------------------------..------
(IN CR$'000)
YEAR         W-0 PROJ         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984         1985         1986          1987
(i} CASH TNFLrjCW
________________
YAL`'E OF PRODUCTION              36-2         36.0          50.3         63.7         62.9         63.8         63.6          63.6         63.6
INYEST4ENT LOAN                    0-0         57.8         47.5          10.*0        10.0         10.0         10.0          10.0         10.0
.HYrT TERM LCAN                   0.0         20.0          19,3         18.5         18.1         18.2         18.3          18.3         18.3
I3TAl INFLOW                      36.2        113.8         117.1         92.2         91.0         91.8         91.9          91.9         91.9
(II) CASH OUTFlOW
INVESTMENT COSTS                   0.0         5?.8          47.5         10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0          10.0         10.0
OFERATING COSTS                     1.8          4.0          4.8          5.7          5.9          6.2          6.3           6.3          6.3
___________ ----------- ---______ ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------                                      O
TOTAL OUTFLOQ                      1.8         61.8         52.3          15.7         15.9         16.2         16.3          16.3         16.3 ui
(iTT) N-T CASH FLOW
____________________
NE' CASH FLOW                     34.4         52.0          64.8         76.5         75.1         75.6         75.6          75.6         75.6
(IV) DEBT SERVICES'
IN,LlOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.            0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          8.3         15.0         16.5          17.9         19.3
1NVFS TTMENT LOAN INTEREST         0.0          5,.8         10.5         11.5         12.5         12.7         12.2          11.6         10.8
5H T,LOAN P:RINCIPAL PMT.          0.0         20.0          19.3         18.5         18.1         18,2         18.3          18.3         18.3
SF'ORT TERM LOAN INTEREST          0.0          i.0           1.0          0,9          0.9          0.9          0.9           0.9          0.9
TOTAL DEBT SERVICES                0.0         26.8          30.8         31.0         39.8         46.9         47.9          48.7         49.3
(V) CASH BALANCE
CASH BALANCE                      34.4         25.2          34.0         45.5         35.3         28.7         27,7          26.9         26.3
ANNUAL INIDEPTErNESS               0.0         77.8         124.6        133.8        143.4        145.3        140.3         133.8        125.9
INTEREST RATE ON SHORT TERM LOAN IO  PA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTFREST RATE ON INVESTMENT LOAN 10% PA
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAID AT END OF SEASON
INVESTMENT LOAN REPAID OVER 10 YEARS WITH 3 YEARS GRACE                                                                                     wIwI>
1/ Short-term loan covers cash operating costs and a proportion of family-labor costs.                                                      U m z
va-ily la,or is financed from cash balance items, reflecting proceeds from short-                                                        0 N 0
term loan and cash generated from farm activities.
UL



- 66 -                         ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 1 of 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Region 6 Quixeramobim
Farm Model Two
(Owner, 0-25 Category)
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and
Cash Flow Projections
Development Years
Base Year  1       2      3      4       5
Moco Cotton, Corn, Beans:       .5     .5     .6      .7     .7      .7
Moco Cotton, Corn, Beans,
Broad Beans                    .5     .3     .1     -       -      -
Moco Cotton 2nd Year          2.0    1.8    1.7   .1.5    1.4    1.3
Corn, Beans                     .2     .1     -       -      -      -
Herb Cotton, Corn, Beans:      -      1.0    1.1    1.3    1.4    l.5S,
Manioc, Beans                  -       .25    .25    .25    .25    .25
Manioc 2nd year                -       -       .25    .25    .25    .25
Total Cropped Area            3.2    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Farm Size: 16 ha



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDF RURAL DFVFIOPMENT PROJECT - REGION 6 (O/MJ)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL TWO '(0-25)
(IN CR)
----------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
t979     1980      198t     1982      1983     1984      1986     1989      1994
(BASE YR)
11
WI THOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                                14.872   14.872   14,872   14.872   14,872   14.872   14.872   14.872   14.872
TOTAL TNFLOW                                 14.872   14.872   14,872   14.872   14.872   14,872   14.872   14.872   14.872
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          3.248    3,248    3.248    3.248    3.248    3.248    3.248    3.248    3,248
' NEl INFLOW                                 11.624   11,624   11.624   11.624   11.624   11.624   11.624   11.624   11.624
olRECT PRODUCTION COST                        674       674      674       674      674       674      674       674       674
- TOTAL OUIFLOW                                   674       674      674       674      674       674      674       674       674
= NET FARM CASI FLOW                           10,950   10.950   10,950   10.950   10,950   10,950   10.950   10.950   10.950              a
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         3,248    3.248    3.248    3,248    3,248    3.248    3,248    3.248    3,248               S
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        3.248    3,248    3.248    3,248    3,248    3.248    3,248    3.248    3.248
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                6.229    6.229    6,229    6.229    6,229    6.229    6.229    6.229    6.229
NET FARM BENEFIT                              7.969    7,969    7.969    7,969    7,969    7,969    7.969    7.969    7.969
1/ A tatic without project situation implies tlbat the long-term trend of
slowly declining agricultural yields would have been halted by improvements
in overall agricultural services that would have occurred without the project.
CD x 
Li 0 O
0 t X
O n a



NORThIEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION 6 (O/MJ)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM1 BUDGET
MODEL TWO (0-25)
(IN CR)
------------------ -__ 7            ---- _- ------------------------------ CALENDAR YEAR -------------------------------
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1986      1989      1994
(BASE YP)
WI714 PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                                  14.872   22.734   29,403   34,963   39.376   43.707   43,818   43.818   43.818
T TOTAL INFLOW                                   14,872   22.734   29.403   34.963   39,376   43.707   43.818   43.818   43.818
DN-FARM CONSUMPTION                           3,248    4,645    4,645    4.645    4,645    4,645    4,645    4.645    4.645
NET INFLOW                                     11,624   18.089   24,758   30,319   34.731   39.062   39,173   39.173   39.173
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                          674    1.723    3,083    4,588    5,432    6,267    6,323    6.323    6.323
INVESTMENFS                                       0   15,942    5,294    5.294    5.294    5,294    5.294    5.294    5.294
- TOIAL OUTFLOW                                     674   17.665    8,377    9.882   10,726   11.561    11.617   11.617   11.617
- NET FARM CASII FLOW                            10.950       424   16,381   20,437   24,005   27.502   27.556   27.556   27,556
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                           3,248    4,645    4,645    4,645    4,645    4.645    4,645    4.645    4.645
* NON-PRODllCTION OUTFLOW                         3.248    4,645    4.645    4,645    4,645    4,645    4.645    4.645    4,645
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                  6.229   10,506   13,042   14,916   16,537   18.072    17.950   17.950   17.950
-NET FARM BENErIT                               7.969    5,438    7,984   10,166   12,112   14,075   14.251    14.251   14.251
P0 LaI
OR (D 
O    c



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RURAL DFVELOPMENT PRO-ECT - REGION 6 (O/MJ)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL TWO (0-25)
(IN  CR)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984       1986      1989      1994
(BASE YR)
INCREMFNTAL
GROSS VALUE                                        0    7,862   14.531   20.092   24.504   28.835   28.946   28.946   28.946
TOTAL INFLOW                                          0    7.862   14,531   20.092   24.504   28.835   28.946   28.946   28.946
ON-FARM CONSUJMPTION                               0     1,397    1.397       1,397     1.397     1.397     1,397      1.397     1,397
NFT INFLOW                                            0    6,4fi4   13,134   18.694   23.107   27.438   27.549   27.549   27.549
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                             0      1.049    2,409    3,914    4.758    5.592    5.649    5.649    5.649
INVFSTMFNTS                                        0   15,942    5.294    5,294    5.294    5.294    5.294    5.294    5.294                 0
- TOTAL OUtFLOW                                         0   16.991    7.703    9.208    10.052    10.886    10.943   10.943    10.943
NFT FArM CASH FLOW                                    0  -10.526    5,431       9.487    13.054    16.552    16.605   16.605   16.605
ON FARM CONSUMPTION                                 0     1.397    1.397      1.397     1.397     1.397      1.397     1,397     1.397
4 NON-PRODuCTlON OUTFLOW                                0     1.397     1,397     1,397     1,397      1.397     1.397     1.397     1.397
- tESS IMPUIED FAMILY LABOR COST                        0    4,278    6.814    8,687    10.308   11.843   11.721    11.721    11.721
- NET FARM BENEFIT                                      0  -13,407         15    2,197    4,143    6.106    6.282    6,282    6,282
INIERNAL RATE OF RETURN 28.54 ^/
OQ O :
M(DX
0
U,t3 



NORTHEAST PRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
O.MEDIO JAGUARIlBE MODEL TWO (0-25)
TIWhT SERVYCFES AND CASH F1,OW PPniVFCTrnN
-----------------------------------..--
(IN CR$'000)
YEAR         W-O PROJ         1980         1961         1982         1993         1984          1985         if"          1987
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-------------------------_--------------------_---_-.-
(I) CASH INFLOW
VALUE OF PRODUCTION               11.8          18.1         24.8         30.3         34.7         39.1         39.1         39.2          39.2
INVESTMENT LOAN                    0.0         15.9           5.3          5.3          5.3          5.3.                      5.3           5.3
SHORT TERM LOAN 1,                  0.0          9.2         12.1         14.6         16.4         18.3         18.2         18.2          1E.2
TOTAL INFLOW                      11.6         43.2         42.2          50.2         56.4         62.7         62.6         62.7         62.7
(II) CASH OUTFLOW
INVESTMENT COSTS                   0.0         15.9           5.3          5.3          5.3          5.3          5.3          5-3           5.3
OPERATING COSTS   1/               0.7           1.7          3.1          4.6          5.4          6.3         ..3           4.3           6-3
ICTAL OUTFLOW                      0.7         17.6           8.4          9.9         10.7         11.6         11.6         11.4         -11.6
(III) NET CASH FLOW
____._______________
NET CASH FLOW                     10.9         25.6          33.8         40.3         45.7         51.1         51.0         51.1         51.1
(IV) DEBT SFRRVICES
INY.LOAN FRINCIPAL FMT.            0.0          0-0           0.0          0.0          2.3          3.0          3.8          4.5            .3
INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST           0.0          1.6          2.1           2.7          3.2          3.5          3.7          3.9           3.9
SH,T.LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.           0.0          9.2          12.1         14.6         16.4         18.3         19.2         18.2          18.2
SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST           0.0          0.5           0.6          0.7          0.8          0.9          0.9          0.9           0.9
TOTAL DEPT SERVICES                0.0         11.2          14.8         18.9         22.7         25.7         26.6         27.5         25.4
(V) CASH BALANCE
________________
CASH VALANCE  1/                  10.9         14.4          19.0        22.3          23.0         25.4         24.4         23.6         22.8
ANNUAL INDEBTEDNESS                0.0         25.1          33.3         41.1         48.2         53.1         55.3         58.8         57.6
INTEREST RATE ON SHORT TERM LOAN 10% PA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTEREST RATE ON INVESTMENT LOAN 10% PA
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAID AT END OF SEASON
INVESTMENT LOAN REPAIB OVER 10 YEARS WITH 3 YEARS GRACE
1/ Short-tern loans covers cash operating costs and a proportion of family labor costs.
PT'milv lall-  4- f4-anced from cash halance it"'n, reflcctino nrncepds from short-term
loan and cash generated from farm activities.
In



-71-
ANNEX 8
Taoe 4
Page 1 of 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Region 1 (Litoral)
(Owner, 10-25 category)
Cropping Pattern, Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
Cropping Pattern
(ha)
Development Years
Crops                   Base Year   1         2        3       4        5
Manioc, Beans               2.0     1.8      1.6      1.4     1.2      1.0
Manioc 2ndByear             2.0     1.8      1.6      1.4     1.2      1.0
Cashew (old)                3.0     3.0      2.0      1.0      -        -
Corn, Beans                  -        .5      .6       .7      .9      1.0
Guava                        -       -        .25      .5       .5      .5
Coconut                      -       -        .25      .5       .5      .5
Soursop                      -       -        -      1.0  _ 2.0        2.0
Total Cropped Area          7.0     7.1      6.3      6.75    6.8      6.5
Farm Size: 18 ha



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RORAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION I (LIT)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL FIVE (10-25 LIT)
(IN CR)
-----------'-------- ----------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR YEAR ---------------------------------
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1986      1989      1994
(BASE YR)
WITMOlUt PROJECT -
GROSS VALUE                                 53,300   53,300   53,300   53,300   53.300   53.300   53.300   53.300   53.300
IOTAL INFrlOW                                53.300   53,300   53.300   53.300   53.300   53.300   53.30b   53,300   53.300
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          4.972    4,972    4.972    4.9'2    4.972    4.972    4.972    4.972    4.972
- NET INFLOW                                    48.329   48,329   48.329   48.329   48.329   48.329   48,329   48,329   48.329
DIRECI PRODUCTION COST                       1.468    1,468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.468 . 1,468    1.468    1,468
- TOTAL OUIFLOW                                  1,468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.468    1.46&  
- NFT rARM CASH FLOW                            46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861   46.861
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          4.972    4,972    4.972   .4.972    4.972   .4.972   *4.972    4.972    4.972
+ NON-PROOUCTION OUTFLOW                        ,4,972    4,972    4,972    4.972    4.972    4.972    4.972    4.972    4.972
- LESS IMPUTFD FAMILY LABOR COST                17,712   17,712   17.712   17,712   17.712   17.712   17.712   17.712   17.712
* NEr FARM BENEFIT                              34,121   34,121   34,121   34.121   34.121   34.121   34,121   34,121   34.t2t
1/ A static without project situation Implies that the-long-term trend of
slowly declining agricultural yields would have been halted by improvements
in overall agricultural services that would have occurred without the project
*o:



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION 1 (LIT)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL FIVE (10-25 LIT)
(IN CR)
-CALENDAR--YEA---R------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR YEAR --------------------------------
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1986      1989     1994
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJFCT
GROSS VALlJE                               53,300   55,752   49.277   41.970   59.486   97,038  156,456  189,386  189.386
- TOTAL INFLOW                                 53,300   55,752   49.277   41,970   59.486   97.038  156,456  189,386  189.396
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         4.972    4,972    4,972    4,972    5,369    5.440    5,918    6,003    6.003
NET INFLOW                                   48.329   50.781   44,306   36.999   54.117   91.598  150,537  183.382  183.382
DIRECT PROODUCTION COST                     1,468    3.444    3.683    4,020   10.704   17,138   21,375   23.640   23,640
INVESTMENTS                                     0   16,447   31,614   48.315   36,142   15.873    5,222    5,222    5.222
rOTAL OLJTFLOW                                1,468   19,891   35,297   52.335   46.846   33,011   26,597   28,862   28,862
NET FARM CASH FLOW                           46,861   30,890    9,009  -15,336    7.271   58.587  123.941  154.521  154.521
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION               .         4,972    4,972    4,972    4.972    5,369    5,440    5.918    6.003    6,003
NON-PRO[)llCTION OUTFLOW                      4,972    4,972    4,972    4,972    5,369    5.440    5.918    6,003    6.003
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST               17,712   18.950   17,852   16,500   18.834   22.860   28.134   32,292   32.292
= NET FARM BENEFIT                             34,121   16.912   -3,872  -26,864   -6.194   41.167  101.725  128,232  128.232
ID H CD
lb0
WU
o    X



NORIHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA STATEWIDE RlURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - REGION I (LIT)
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
MODEL FIVE (10-25 LIT)
(IN CR)
-----    ------------------------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR YEAR --------------------------------
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1986      1989      1994
(BASE YR)
JNCREMFNTAL
GROSS VALUE                                      0    2.452   -4,023  -11.330    6.185   43.737  103.155  136.085  136,085
TOTAL INrLOw                                       0    2.452   -4.023  -11.330    6.185   43.737  103.155  136.085  136.085
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                              0         0        0         0     397       468       947    t.032    1.032
NET INFLOW                                         0    2,452   -4,023  -11,330    5.788   43.269  102.208  135.053  135.053
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                           0    1.976    2,215    2.552    9.236   15,670   19.901   22.172   22.172
INVESTMENTS                                      0   16.447   31.614   48.315   36.142   15.873    5.222    5.222    5.222.
- TOTAL OlJTFLOW                                     0   18,423   33,829   50.867   45.378   31.543   25.129   27.394   27.394
NET FARM CASM FLOW                                 0  -15.971  -37,853  -62.197  -39.590   11.726   77.079  107.660  107.660
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                              0         0        0         0      397       468       947    1.032    1.032
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW          -0                           0        0         0       397      468       947    1.032    1.032
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                     0    1,238       140   -1.212    1.122    5.148   10.422   14.580   14.580
* NET FARM BENEFIT                                   0  -17.209  -37.992  -60.985  -40.314    7.046   67.604   94.11t   94.1t1
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 27.77 %.
00 
* I' CDr
0
H ID
1h
I-I



NORrHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJICI
LITORAL MODEL FIVE (JO025 LITORAL)
DEEBT SERVICES AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CRS'O00)
YEAR         U-O PROJ          1980         1981         1982          1903         1984          1985         1986          1987'
(I) CASH INFl'OW
VALAIF OF PRODUCTION               48.3         50.8          44.3         37.0         54.1          91.6        121.4         150.5         161.01
INVESTMENT LQAN                     0.0         16.4          31.6         48.3         36.1          15.9          5.9           5.2           5.2j
SHORT TERM LOAN                     0.0         16.8          16.2         15.4         22.1          30.0          32.0         37.1          38.6|
TOTAL INFLOW                       48.3         84.0          92.1        100.7        112.3         137.5        159.3         192.8         204.81
(II) CASH OUTFLOW
INVESTMENT COSTS                    0.0         16.4          31.6         48.3         36.1          15.9           5.9          5.2           5.2
OPFRATING COSTS                     1.5          3.4           3.7          4.0          10.7         17.1          18.6         21.4          22.1l
TOTAL OUTFLOW                       1.5         19.8          35.3         52.3         46.8          33.0          24.5         26.6.         27.3 3
(III) NET CASH FLOW
NET CASH FLO.                     46.8         64.2          56.8         48.4         65.5         104.5        134.8         166.2         177-51
(IV) DEBT SERVICES
INV.LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.             0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           2.3          6.9          13.8         18.9          21.2:
INV'ESTMENT LOAN INTEREST           0.0          1.6           4.8          9.6         13.2          14.6          14.5         13.6          12.3j
SH.T.LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.            0.0         16.8          16.2         15.4         22.1          30.0     \   32.0          37.1          38.61
SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST            0.0          0.8           0.8          0.8           1.1          1.5           1.6          4.9           1.9!
TOTAL. DEBT SERVICES                0.0         19.3          21.8         25.8         38.8          53.0   .     61.9          71.5          74.0
(V) CASH BALANCE
CASH BALANCE                       46.8         44.9          35.0         22.6         26.7          51.5         72.9          94.7         103.51
ANNUAL INDEBTEDNESS                 0.0         33.2          64.2        111.7        154.5         176.0         177.0        173.6         161.41
INTEREST RATE ON SHORT TERM LOAN 10Z PA FOR 6 MONTHS
INTEREST RATE ON INVESTMENT LOAN 10% PA
SHORT TERM LOAN REPAID AT END OF SEASON
1NHFSThENT LOAN REPAID OVER 10 YEARS WITH 3 YEARS GRACE                                                                                         S t~I
1/ Short term loan covers cash operating costs and a proportion of family labor costs.                                                          o
Family labor is financed from cash balance items, reflecting proceeds from short-term
loan and cash generated from farm activities.



Annex 9
- 76-                                   Page 1 of 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA, RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Component Key Indicators
Principle Obiectives                                                 Key Indicators
1. General
-  To increase productivity and incomes, broaden                -  improvements in the standard of living of
opportunities and to generally improve the                       target small farmer families measured in
standard of living of 60,000 farmers and their                   terms of elementary health, nutrition, edu-
families, these being the estimated direct ben-                 cation, security of land tenure and basic
eficiaries of the project                                        infrastructure standards
-  To raiis  agricultural production in Ceara to                -  increases in production and productivity,
cater for local and export markets                              particularly of food crops
-  To develop further the technical and admini                  -  performance of marketing and storage
strative capacity of institutions involved in                   systems
agriculture and rural development in the state,
and hopefully to encourage the development of
distinct -mall farmer orientation within these
institutions; and
-  To serve as a "pilot" operation to test possi-               -  improved administrative efficiency of the
bilities of planning and implementing state-                     state, regional and municipal levels in
wide rural development projects in other                         terms of (i) the quantitative and quali-
states of the Northeast                                         tative relationship offset vs. reached
project targets and (ii) maintenance and
recurrent cost coverage
2. Agricultural Servicas
2.1 Agriculturel Extension                                           -  number of farmer groups reached
-  Formation of farmers groups in order to transfer             -  number of farmers
agricultural technology developed by agricultural            -  character of farmer groups:
research and/or other sources                                   -  turaover of membership
- .% of group attending individual meetings
-  Improvements in regional agriculture through better             -  7. of man attending
use of inputs, e.g., seeds, saplings, fertilizers,              -  % of women participating
pesticides, new nurseries, and through production               -  seasonal variations in participation
methods adjusted to regional conditions, better                 -  socio-economic stratification of groups
cultivation, disease control, harvesting and                    - Z of participants with credit
storage methods                                                 - 7 of participants without credit
- 7 of adoptors of innovations.
-  Help project participants receive and apply ade-             -  number of extension agents
quately rural credit                                         -  number of farmers attended by each
field team (ratio producers/extension
-  Introduce new farm management techniques to help                agents)
project participants maximize their income.                  -  number of demonstration plots established
with the participation of farmer groups
- introduction of fixed agenda to field
field visits
- coincidence of extensionists work with
monthly action schedule
- functioning of support services
(vehicles, gasoline, etc.)
- 7. of time spent in office and/or on
processing of credit
- number of plans for community action
prepared beneficiaries groups and
extension agents
- diversification of production due to the
introduction of new cultures
- increases in production and productivity
-  beneficiary participation in local decision-
making processes.
2.2 Agricultural Research and Experimentation
-  Development of new technologies,                             -  number of experimental and demonstration
departing from current small farmer.                            plots
production systems through 150 experi-                       -  results obtained from experimental and
ments  on 40 different production systems                        demonstration plots
over 5 years                                                 -  efficiency in the transfer or new
tc  eommunicate research =::ults to small farmers,              research results for extension staff
in cooperation with the agricultural extension               -  number of visitors per observation st1e
service.                                                     -  adoption role of new technology on the
-  Production and marketing to farmers of 272,000                   part of small farmers
citruse,coconut and soursop saplings                         -  results obtained by small farmers from
the use of new recommended systems.
- number of saplings produced
- number of small farmers using selected saplings



- 77                                           Annex 9
?age 2 of 4
Principle Objectives                                                   idiators
2.3   Land Cadastral Surveys,
Titlinc and Purchase                                               number of ha of   o c,oanc ,
has been clarified             c -   I to
- number of small farmer iamilies benefitting
from land purchase, "expropriation on grounds
To clarify the occupancy situation of about                     of social interest', distribution of state
300,000 he of public lands                                      land (terras devolutas): (i) surveyed;
To provide 6,550 farmers wfth less than 100                      (ii) with rental contracts
ha and occupant in front of legal tenure,                    -  number of farmers benefitting from
with lend titles                                                regularized sharecropping or small
-  To increase the security of landless farmers,                   rental contracts
through tenure arrangements                                  -reunt of land under agricultural use
-  To purchase and settle 100,000 ha with                       -  number of small farmers simultaneoyusly
previously landless farmers under coopera-                      benefittir   from project land tenure
tives or farmer group systems, to tha benefit                    eguliation fr d product and   mare
of 3,700 farm families   ~  ~      ~     ~      rgularizatiort end preduction and marketinLg
of 3,700 farm families                                          inputs
2.4  Agricultural Cooperative Society Development                       agriculturo l exploogidarmer groups developinag
-  To select and assist 12 cooperative societies                -  Progress of study and cooperative develop-
in the state to improve their services to                       ment plan (year 1)
small farmers, through:                                     -  Number of cooperatives assisted
a) technical and managerial assistance and                  -  Number of small farmers reached by each
training;                                                   cooperative
b) produce marketing and input supply                       -  Number of marketing posts functioning
facilities (20 marketing posts);                         - Amount of input supply channelled through
c) production of improved seeds;                                cooperatives
d) selective expansion of. the range of                     -  Amount of produce marketed through
cooperative services to be extended                         assisted cooperatives
in land purchase and settlement                          -  Relation of costs to the small farmer
activities,                                                 of cooperative services to those of
alternative marketing channels
- Number of units, storage racititiss and
laboratories for seed selection, created
or expanded under the project
- Number of fields established for seed
production
- Quantities of seeds produced.
2.5 Agricultural Credit
-  To reach over 5 years 36,150 small farmers,                 - Amounts and types of credit extended
owing or operating less than 100 ha in                      -  Number and types of farmers below poverty line
their majority with a per capita of less                       farmers taking credit
than US$ 330 per year, with incremental                     -  Debt service performance
seasonal short-term and medium and long-                    -  Role of farms producing according to estimate
term investment credit of Cr$ 1,805.5                       -  Efficiency of small farmer credit application
million over 5 years                                           and disbursement service on the part of the banks
-  To expand small farmer use of institutional                 -  % of farmers participating in agricultural extension
credit to facilitate adoption of new tech-                     activities taking credit
niques                                                      -  % of credit-taking farmers adopting recommended
-  To reduce dependence on traditional high                       innovations
interest rate charging money lenders                        -  Role of compliance with original credit farm plans
- Impact of credit on family economics and nutrition
for different strato of target group farmers
3.   Social Infrastructure
3.1  Education and Vocational Training
3.1.1 Education
-  Improve access to basic education for the                  -  Number of basic education schools re-
rural population in 76 project municipalities                 modeled or constructed and equipped
-  Improve the quality of basic, and of secondary             -  Number of CERU constructed and equipped
agricultural education                                         (and functioning)
-  Improve the efficiency of basic and of secondary           -  Introduction of new basic education curric-
agricultural education                                        ulum in rural schools
-  Strengthen education planning and administration           -  Introduction of revised curriculum, including
at state, DERE and OME levels                                 work experience courses in secondary agri-
cultural schools
- Implementation of training courses for
unqualified basic education teachers and
CERU coordination (number of teachers
trained or training; type/stage of course;
outcomes)
- Implementation of training courses for school
supervisors, rural health education tutors
- Acquisition/distribution of textbooks,teacher's
guides, workbooks, teaching/learning packages
(numbers acquired, schools to which distributed)
- Number of secondary agricultural schools
remodeled/equipped
- Type and amount of technical/financial support
afforded
- Increase in student places; evaluation of
performance of project institutions; develop-
ment of mechanization system at basic education
level (CERU)



Annex 9
-78-                                                   Page 3 of 4
Principle Obiectives                                              Key Indicators
3.1.2 Vocational Training
-  Improvements in small farm family incomes/                -  Number of courses given
living condition, through training and access             -  Number of persons trained
to the labor market                                       -  Number of persons trained active in the
-  preparation of those trained to organize In                   labor market
associative/cooperative ways                              -  Forms of absorption of those trained in
-  Provide remedial education and skills upgrading               the labor market, and incidence of utili-
to local entrepreneurs                                        zation of their services
- Number of groups organized and % of trained
persons engaged in promoted forms of association
- Number of associations strengthened in the context
-of the project
3.2   Health and Sanitation
3.2.1 Health
-  At full development, wide coverage low cost               - Number of persons attended, particularly in the
health care delivery system to serve about                   NCH target group
400,000 people through                                    -  Number of facilities constructed
-  construction of 200 rural health posts                 -  Number of personnel trained
-  construction of 6 health centers                       -  Number of trained personnel in service
-  upgrading of 80 existing health posts                     Number of facilities functioning on a regular basis
-  upgrading of 23 existing health centers                -  Provision of medical and other supplies
-  training of 250 rural health attendants                -  Uninterrupted and adequate coverage of recurrent
-  training of 250 traditional midwives                      costs for salaries, maintenance, etc.
-  training of 180 outreach health auxiliaries            -  Efficiency of che supervision system
-  public health seminars for SES staff                   -  Efficiency of the referral system
-  strengthening and equipping of regional                -  Responsiveness of SES state level administration
health administration                                     in processing requests of its rural 'delegacias'.
- 24 months of technical assistance in health
administration to help identify and overcome
constraints in the state and regional health
system
3.2.2 Sanitation
-  Reduction of morbidity and mortality                      -  Number of water supply systems,
caused by water borne diseases and                           installed and functioning
intestinal parasites, through provision                   -  Number of laterines installed
of 100 rural water supply systems,                           and used
14,000 pit laterines and filters to a                     -  Number of filters, installed
total of 125,000 persons                                     and used
-  Development of a sanitary education                       -  Number of families benefitting
program aiming at improved hygienic                          from water supply, laterines and
practices.                                                   filters
-  Strengthening of state maintenance                        -  Mechanism  used in the determination
capacity                                                     of local needs for such systems
- Correct use of installed systems
-  Coincidence of farmers benefitting
from this component and of those
benefitting from production and
marketing inputs
- NUmber of beneficiaries recorded by
health and sanitation education campaigns
4.     Physical Infrastructure
4.1    Feeder and Access Roads
-  To ensure all weather serviceability of                   -  Maintenance level of priority municipal
about 2, 800Okm of high priority municipal                   access roads
access roads                                              -  Average area served per km municipal
-  To provide maintenance of the extensive                       road (per municipality)
municipal road network                                    -  Ratio of adequately maintained roads
-  To identify collector feeder roads for                        to total of municipal roads
which improvement to a high standard would                - Average maintenance costs per km/year
be justified                                                  of municipal roads, specified per class.
- To strengthen DAER-CE's mechanized assistance
to municipalities, and training municipal
farmer in planning and executing manual road
maintenance tasks
- To provide consulting services to identify and
present collector feeder roads for possible
BNDE/DNER financing.



Annex 9
Page iof 4
Principle Oblectives                                                          Key indicators
4.2 Small-scale Irrigation Systems
-  Rational use of superficial  nd underground                - Number of irrigation systes established
vater resource  in irrigation and agricul-                   and in use
turn of 'vazantes', under the coordination                - Number of small farmer families benefitting
of the state governmat                                        from component
-  To ensure stable sources of watar (reser-                 -  Total area irrigated and average area irri-
voirs or wells), with a capacity to irri-                     gated per family
gate a minimum area of 10-15 he  during a                 - Effective participation of small farmers in
period of 2 years without winter rainy                       programed actions
season, benefitting a group of approxi-                   - Employment generation end more evenly distri-
mately 5-20 farmers per each of a total                      buted labor demnd at the small farm level
of 83 aystams                                             -  Increases in,production and family income
through more intensive use of land and
labor on small farms
-  Social organization for work distribution,
maintenance and conflict management
4.3   Msrketing
-  Provide CAP assistance to small farmers                   - Number of farmers receiving CAP
and sharecroppers                                         -  % of sharecroppers
- 7 farmers repaying advance
- Number of farmers selling produce to CAP
-  Supply low income urban/rural fmailies                    -  Number urban/rural stores included in progras
with basic consumption goods                              - NHmber of families benefitting
- (Cr$) total sales
- (CrS) Average sales/store
-  Improve classification facilities for                     -  Number of posts installed
agricultural produce                                      - Number of posts improved
- Number of posts receiving produce
-  (Tons) Volume produce per post, average.
5.     Small-Scale Non-4ericultural Enterorises
-  Provide 575 urban and 520 rural enterprises               -  Number urban/rural enterprises visited
with technical assistance and credit                      -  Number credit requests prepared
- Number credit requests approved by bank
- y of enterprises in default on loans
-  Expand and strengtnen CEAG-CZ' technical                  - Number urban enterprises per extension agent
assistance capacity in the interior of the state          -  Number rural enterprises per extension agent
- Time per enterprise by extension (urban/rural)
- Number extension agents trained
-  Create 2,200 new employment opportunities                 - Number new employees per enterprise
6.    Proiect Coordination and Management
Monitoring. Evaluation and Studies
-  Integrated and timly project implementation               -  Compliance.with PCMU staffing provisions
through efficient state and field level project           -  50% of technical experts' time spent in
coordination and management                                  field
-  To strengthen administrative implementation capacity   -  provision of adequate support services
at the state and regional levels of project executing  -  Integrated PCMi - Executing agency work in
agencies                                                     (i) annual planning; (ii) project implemen-
tation; (iii) project monitoring
-  To provide state-wide coordination of planning            -  Observation of montnly operational scanedule
and implementation of all smal farmer oriented            -  Local participation and feedback to project
development                                                  management
- Proolem-solving at adequate administrative
leve Ls
- Efficient internal administration on the
part of executing agencies
- Effective links oetween monitoring, evaluacion
and studies and (i) annual planning criteria;
(ii) on-going project implementation
- Development of executing agencies' monitoring
formats
- Studies carried out and their impact on project
implementation
- Timely elaooration or Annual Operating Plans
- Timely approvaL of Annual Operating Pland and
disbursement on tne part of PN



- 80                            Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planning Sub-Regions Main Characteristics
1.    The State Government divided Ceara into 8 sub-regions, or Regional
Planning Units (RPU). The main physiographic and socioeconomic characteristics
that distinguish the various RPUs are given in the following paragraphs.
2.    The Litoral extends along the humid coastal region in the north of the
state, and is further subdivided into the immediate coastline subregion ahid
the sertao and serra (foothills) subregions further inland. Some 57% of the
area's soils are suitable for agriculture, rated from "fair" to "suitable with
some limitations". The rainy season lasts from mid-January to mid-June. Several
small rivers which flow into the sea, also create small lakes within this region.
DNOCS, the National Department for Works Against Drought, has developed-"in the
region a system of dams (two large dams and 14 small ones) with a total storage
capacity of over 650 million m3 of water. Thorny and stunted vegetation is
dominant (Caatinga Hiperxerofila). Population density is 91 km2. Only.,27% of
the total labor force are engaged in agriculture, 17% in industry and 56% in
services and other activities.  Of the estimated total number of 76,310 farm
operators, 54,420 (71%) are non-owner operators.
3.    Agricultural production on large plantations is characterized by cattle
husbandry which alternates with the cultivation of cashew trees, carnauba and
coconut palms. Fishing is also an important activity in this RPU. The principal
farming system for small farmers is intercropping ("consorcio") of manioc/corn/
beans. Slash and burn agriculture is widely employed and subsistence farmers
with hand planting between the stumps, corn and beans being planted only during
the first year and the manioc harvested after 12-18 months, depending principally
on market conditions. The fallow period varies from 3-10 years depending on the
size of the property, and also on natural fertility level, which often has some
historical relationships with the property size. Sugar cane is grown to a limited
extent on better soils. Perennial cotton is grown in some transition zones to the
Sertao; a few more progressive farmers are also planting annual cotton in favored
soils. Planting techniques are unadvanced with land preparation, though some use
of animal traction for cultivation may be encountered. Fertilizer is seldom used
by small farmers. Agroindustrial activities include the processing of cashew nuts,
sugar cane, manioc and cotton.
4.    EMATER-CE operates in the Litoral through 2 regional and 16 local offices
with some 114 extension agents; EPACE, with 2 experimental stations; and CODAGRO,
through 3 farm machinery posts and 19 sale outlets. The commercial banking system
(dominated by Bank of Brazil and Bank of the Northeast) provided in 1978, 5,758
loans to farmers in the Litoral. Federal and state paved roads extend through the
Litoral, with municipal feeder roads connecting to remote areas. Electrical power
is supplied to all municipal centers, while rural areas are only partially served.
There are 33 health posts in the region serving the rural population. School infra-
structure is of very mixed quality and, school buildings exist in most parts of the
areas, however, students most often travel long,distances, and there is a serious
lack of trained teachers.



Annex 10
- 81 -                            Page 2 of 6
5.    The Ibiapaba RPU in which a rural development project is under execution
with support from Loan 1488-BR is located in the northwestern part of Ceara,
bordering the state of Piaui. Mainly a high plateau (Serra da Ibiapaba) with
altitudes from about 500 m in the west to some 800 m in the east, the area is
broken by a steep escarpment dropping to a low-lying area in the east with an
altitude of about 200 m. Some 70% of the Ibiapaba soils are suitable for ag-
riculture, rated as "good" (14), "fair" (12%) and "suitable with limitations"
(44%). The rainy season lasts from late December to early June. Small rivers,
draining rainfall water, either westward to Piaui or eastward to larger rivers,
flow through the area. The dominant vegetation type is dense Caatinga (bush)
with transition to flora typical to humid, high altitude regions.
6.    The region's population density is 43/km2, and 79% of the total labor
force are engaged in agriculture, 10% in industry and 11% in services and other
activities. Some 68% of Ibiapaba's 10,820 farm properties are smaller than 50 ha,
and of a total of 17,740 farm operators, 10,470 (59%) are non-owner operators.
7.    In the humid highland areas, farms are generally of small to medium size, and
produce sugar cane, bananas, tropical fruits, coffee and some vegetables. Farms in
the drier areas of the high plateau and in the Sertao are usually larger and simpler
in their organization, producing mainly manioc and livestock, with some subsistence
crops, as well as vegetables where irrigation is possible. Intensification of land
use has begun as has the use of improved farming practices and broader introduction
of new cash crops (coffee, fruits and vegetables). Farm incomes are, however, still
below the area's physical potential.
8.    EMATER-CE operates one regional and 7 local offices with some 85 extension
agents in the Ibiapaba area; EPACE has one experimental station and CODAGRO operates
one farm machinery post and 9 input supply outlets. The banking system provided, in
1978, 1,605 loans to area farmers. Federal and state paved roads form a large cross
through the region and feeder roads (partly Bank-financed) connect remote areas; local
roads are, however, still not adequately maintained. Electrical power is supplied to
all municipal towns, and to some rural areas. There are 26 health posts in the
region serving the rural population and more are planned under Loan 1488-BR. Rural
primary education still suffers from a lack of well qualified teachers.
9.    Baturite is an area located in the north-central portion of the state, and
subdivided into Sertao and Serra (highland). Only 39% of the area's soils are
suitable for agriculture (13% are "fair" and 26% "suitable with limitations") and
the rest is pastureland and forest. The rainy season extends from January to late
July. A network of small rivers drains the Serra region into larger rivers in the
adjacent Litoral and the sea. Floresta Subferenifolia (with permanent foilage),
Floresta Subcadicifolia (with deciduous leaves) and Caatinga Hyperxerofila are the
typical vegetation of the area. In 1980, population density of the Baturite region
was estimated at 50/km2, and 76% of the total labor force are engaged in agriculture,
4% in industry and 20% in services and other activities. About 68% of the region's
6,110 farm properties are smaller than 50 ha, and of a total of 14,160 farm operators,
9,020 (64%) are non-owner operators.
10.   Vegetables and fruits are grown quite intensively in parts of the upland area.
However, rice, corn and cotton are the chief field crops in the Baturite region.
Planting techniques reflect the steep terrain with shallow soils. Though relatively
high rainfall allows better yields than in the Litoral and Sertao, the topography
generally limits potential improvements to fertilization, use of certified seeds and
insect control.



- 82 -                         Annex 10
Page 3 of 6
11.   EMATER-CE operates in Baturite through one regional and 10 local offices
with some 33 extension agents; EPACE has one experimental station; and CODAGRO
operates one farm machinery post and 10 input stores. In 1978, some 1,796 bank
loans were made to farmers in the region. State paved roads serve the area, but
connecting feeder roads to remote areas are poorly maintained. Electrical power
is supplied to all municipal towns, but only partly to rural areas. There are
only 3 rural health posts in the region, though there is a reasonable supply of
school infrastructure in the RPU.
12.   The Baixo (Lower) Jaguaribe RPU lies in the Northeastern portion of the state,
bordered by the state of Rio Grande do Norte and the Atlantic Ocean. Only 46% of
the area's soils are suitable for agriculture, but mostly with limitations. The
rainy season extends from mid-January to mid-July. Two medium sized rivers (one
the Jaguaribe) are the principal components of the surface water system. DNOCS has
built in the region two large dams and one smaller dam, with a total storage capacity
of 86 million m3 of water. Carnauba and Caatinga Hyperxerofila are the principal
vegetation in the area.
13.   The region's population density was estimated in 1980 at about 28/km2, and
61% of the labor force are engaged in agriculture, 22% in industry and 17% in
services. Of the region's 20,107 farm properties, 66% are smaller than 50 ha.
Only 6,730 (32%) of the 20,960 farm operators are nonowner operators.
16.   The climate, soils and vegetation of this region are similar to the Sertao
areas, although the Baixo Jaguaribe has relatively larger areas of better soils.
The basic Sertao consorcia (cotton/corn/beans) are common, however, some pure stands
of annual cotton and manioc are grown, and manioc often substitutes cotton in the
three-crop concorcio. More mechanization than in the Sertao is used, and animal
traction is also common. The use of irrigation has considerable potential.
15.   EMATER-CE operates one regional and 7 local offices with some 67 extension
agents in the Baixo Jaguaribe; EPACE has one experimental station; and CODAGRO
has one farm machinery post and 10 input supply posts. As in other regions,
Federal and State paved roads provide a reasonably good core for transport but
feeder roads to remote areas are often in urgent need of maintenance. Elettrical
power is supplied to all municipal towns, and to some rural areas.
16.   The Sertoes Cearenses area is located in the center-west portion of the state.
Some 44% of the area's soils are suitable for agriculture and rated from "good (1%)
to "fair" (7%) and "suitable with limitations" (36%). The rainy season lasts from
January to May. Three principle rivers are flowing through this RPU. Along these
rivers, DNOCS has developed a system of 19 large dams (one of them is a very large
dam with a storage capacity of over one billion m3) with total storage capacity of
1.6 billion m3 of water. The dominant vegetation type is Floresta Subcaducifolia
and Caducifolia and a transition vegetation from Floresta to Caatinga.
17.   The region's population density was estimated in 1980 at 27/km2, and 60% of the
total labor force are engaged in agriculture, 18% in industry and 22% in services and
other activities. About 46% of the region's 29,310 farm properties are smaller than 50
ha. Among the 50,820 farm operators in the area, some 28,880 or 57% are nonowner farmers.



Annex 10
- 83 -                           Page 4 of 6
18.   Agricultural activities in the Sertoes are characterized by cattle raising,
as the chief occupation, and a mix of cotton, corn and beans (cowpeas), manioc
and castor beans. Perennial cotton is persently the most important crop, usually
interplanted in the first year with corn and beans. Rice production is found in
the lower and wetter lands. In some parts of the region, bananas, sugar cane and
cashew nuts are also grown. Overall, however, low annual rainfall poses a serious
limitation on agriculture. No fertilizers are used and insecticides are employed
only by the more advanced farmers. Agricultural extension agents reach only a very
small portion of farmers in the area. For some crops, average yields show a downward
trend. Since immediate potential for introduction of new crops is rather limited,
improvement in farm incomes will probably have to concentrate on more efficient
insect and pest control; use of improved varieties (e.g., gradually replacing the
low-yield perennial cotton with available drought-resistant annual cotton); application
of improved seeds with better spacing; timely cultivation; and increased use of
animal traction.
19.   EMATER-CE has 2 regional and 14 local offices, with some 123 extension agents
in the area. EPACE does not have an experimental post in this region, but since
environmental conditions are similar to other Sertao areas of the state, the experi-
mental station in the Quixeramobim/Medio Jaguaribe area can well serve this region.
CODAGRO has 2 farm machinery posts and 22 input sale outlets. Commercial banks in
the region provided 8,138 loans to farmers in 1978. Electrical power is not supplied
to all municipal towns, and there is only a partial supply to rural areas. There are
only 21 health posts serving this very large region's rural population, and rural
education facilities are also weak.
20.   The Sertoes do Quixeramobim e Medio (Middle) Jaguaribe region is located in the
central portion of the state. Some 44% of the area's soils are suitable for agriculture
(rated from "fair" 14% to "suitable with limitations" 30%). The rainy season
lasts from mid-January to early June. Three main rivers cross this RPU but with
low flows. DNOCS has developed a system of 11 dams in the area with a total water
holding capacity of 2.37 billion m3. The dominant vegetation is of three types,
namely, the Floresta Caducifolia, the Floresta Ciliar or Carnauba Palm, and the
transition type from the Floresta to the Caatinga type vegetation.
21.   The region's population density was estimated in 1980 at 22/km2, and 81% of the
total labor force are engaged in agriculture, 4% in industry and 15% in services and
other activities. Of the region's 22,720 farm properties, 51% are smaller than 50 ha.
Among the 40,000 farm operators in the area, 19,450 or 49% are nonowners.
22.   Agricultural activities in this region are similar to those in Sertoes Cearenses.
Variation of the cropping system is small, as interplanted corn and beans, manioc,
and beans predominate. This pattern has not changed in the last decade. Improvements
could include the use of better technologies and application of insecticides, better
quality seeds and occasionally fertilizers.
23.   EMATER-CE operates in this region through one regional and 15 local offices
with some 108 extension agents; EPACE has one experimental station; and CODAGRO
operates 3 farm machinery posts and 14 sale outlets. The banking system in the
region provided 7,333 loans to farmers in 1978. Federal and state paved roads
extend through the region and feeder roads connect more remote areas; most of these
latter roads are, however, in urgent need of maintenance. Electrical power is supplied
to most municipal towns, but to only some rural areas.  There are only ll rural health
posts in this large region serving the rural population, and although the school system
offers somewhat better coverage, it also suffers from underqualified teachers and poor
facilities.



- 84 -                            Annex 10
Page 5 of 6
24.   The Sertoes dos Inhamuns e Salgado region is located in the south-central
part of the state. Some 49% of the area's soils are suitable for agriculture
with less than 1% "good" soils, 18% "fair", and 31% "suitable with limitations".
The rainy season lasts from mid-January to the end of May. Several rivers cross
the area, some are with a very scant flow during the dry season. A system of
four dams was built by DNOCS with a total holding capacity of 2.8 billion m3.
The dominant vegetation is Floresta Ciliar or Carnauba, and a transition vegetation
from Floresta to Caatinga and Caatinga Hipoxerofila.
25.   The region's population density was estimated in 1980 at 26/km2; and 79% of
the total labor force are engaged in agriculture, 4% in industry and 17% in services
and other activities. Of the region's 25,000 farm properties, 62% are smaller than
50 ha. Among the 34,630 farm operators in this RPU, some 13,560 (39%) are nonowner
operators.
26.   This region is similar to the two other Sertao regions, with cotton, corn,
beans and manioc the predominant crops, traditionally interplanted. In better soils,
where water is available, rice and bananas are also grown. Rudimentary farming
methods prevail and recommendations for improvements would be similar to those in
the other Sertao regions.
27.   EMATER-CE has, in Sertoes dos Inhamuns e Salgado, two regional and 14 local
offices and some 187 extension agents; EPACE does not operate any experimental
stations in the area; but CODAGRO has 2 farm machinery posts and 10 sale outlets.
Farmers in the region received in 1978 some 8,457 loans. Federal and state paved
roads are extending through the region and feeder roads connect remote areas. Elec-
trical power distribution is relatively well developed, but only partiallyrKin rural
areas. There are only 9 rural health posts in the region serving the rural population,
and education services in this RPU suffer most of the same weaknesses as in the other
RPU' s.
28.   Cariri etends along the state's southern border with the state of Pernambuco
to the south, the state of Piaui to the west and the state of Paraiba to,.the east.
It includes the valleys and foothills, Chapada (plateau) and Sertao areas. A
relatively high share, 63% of the area's soils are suitable for agriculture, rated
from "good" (less than 1%) to "fair" (25%) and "suitable with limitations" (28%).
The rainy season lasts from mid-December to mid-May. Several small rivers cross
the region; some drying completely for part of the year. Four DNOCS-constructed
dams in the area have a total storage capacity of 85 million m3; in addition,
numerous small dams have been built by individual farmers and are used for irri-
gation of small plots. The predominant vegetation types are Caatinga Hipoxerofila
and Campo Cerrado (Bush Savanna), the latter mainly along the southern border of the
region.
29.   The region's population density was estimated in 1980 at 421km2; and 64% of
the total labor force are engaged in agriculture, 11% in industry and 257% in services
and other activities. About 64% of the region's 29,420 farm properties are smaller
than 50 ha. Among the 49,430 farm operators in the area, 27,140 or 55% are non-
owner farmers.



- 85 -                            Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
30.   The central valley with its good soils is suited to production of a variety
of crops, vegetables and fruits. Sugar cane, corn, rice and annual cotton are
grown either in pure stand or intercropped with common beans.   Fertilizer appli-
cation is increasing among the farmers in Cariri, and for sugar cane it is widely
used. Insecticides are also used, even by small farmers. The area's agriculture
is the most advanced in the state, but there is still considerable potential for
more efficient use of farm inputs, improved cultivation systems using mechanization
or animal traction, application of better seeds and introduction of new varieties
of fruits and crops.
31.   EMATER-CE operates one regional and 16 local offices in the Cariri region
with some 62 extension agents; EPACE has 4 experimental stations and CODAGRO
operates 2 farm machinery posts and 22 sale outlets. About 6,400 bank loans were
made to farmers in 1978. The Federal and state paved roads provide a reasonably
extensive network and feeder roads connect remote areas. Electrical power is
supplied to municipal towns, but rural areas are not adequately served. There
are 23 health posts in the region serving the rural population, and school activities
though of relatively poor quality, are found in all parts of the region.



- 86 -
ANNEX 11
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents Available in Project File
1. Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Ceara
2. Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
3. Pesquisa Agropecuaria
4. Credito Rural
5. Organizacao Fundiaria
6. Assistencia Tecnica ao Cooperativismo
7. Abastecimento de Sementes
8. Abastecimento Rural de Produtos Basicos
9. Classificacao de Produtos Agricolas
10.  Educacao
11. Treinamento e Formacao de Mao de Obra
12. Saude (2 Vol.)
13. Saneamento
14. Rodovias Vicinais (2 Vol.)
15. Pequenos Sistemas de Irrigacao
16. Comercializacao
17. Pequenos Negocios Nao Agricolas (3 Vol.)
18. Organizacao
19. Estudos Especiais
20. Diagnostico da Situacao Presente (6 Vol.)
21. Programas especiais
22. Medidas de Apoio a Agropecuaria, a Organizacao Agraria e ao Credito Rural
23. Miscellaneous Documents



40-
R A ZItL 
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTJ
EXISTING SOCIAL AND ECONOMiC INFRASTPUCTURE
KB  RA   Z  IL             'A'CRC-REASJ57
-3-                                                                                                                                                                -ki'   -'LATL0H
3 RANJAC ~ ~            ~                  ~                ~ ~ ~ RAT
A(TAVAI                       E~~~ A C/JZ                                                                                                      ""-I'NE'--
!MORALI                         SAN AN
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 oITAPIPCC.A                              K   4ARACCTR                                                           K
S  D0S  C  CEARA            -                  MTW         4z 
flO    COREAL     o   MEEL C~~~~~~~~~A-A                          ,JLTAzIA        D A ON              A,"
CI`ARLE*NTARA                   /7~~~~~UR\jB0lUI        DOANARNOTLEQ,
7   A CANTARATy~J.~.             J               ~                          C"  [       CL A            _      FORTALEZA
ITALCAV    E                                   CAJI 
T  EAN JATA    0OARB                   CR   TR                                                                AAAGUF-ACVI
7             -          CARONE 
IBAPINA                                                                     0AEJEAEES                        '
SAC   TSRA WA  -                  ~~~~~~~~,ENFSAS                                      /O~~~~~~RA
TOO                                                              0 SAMPAC                                                    ) 
*CARTNAJSAL                                                                                                                               C`T,TEA-/~  MO~~"EA~U    
D. RJI        ICROLNCA                                                                      VTI C""RE "E AO
NOR                                                                            AR ADLJe
*  '-"  ~~~~                                    TA TA                    '-p0 '~~ANTA-UITR-A 
--7-j  O~~~~~~/  ~  ~     ~                                                                     2                   5'I~~~~~ANCCITRA-ABA  '"~~~~~~~~CN~NEK
RORANGA      H DR   ND[A        p 
A-    'K                   OJISACA  ~~~~~~~~~~~N'                      RJSSAS~~ARCA
MCI                          '                         CITAT RRBi I'/
*                                                                K, 7       SAC SCAC                 EITO     '"'S~JIAPINA  310
'U" Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O CAIE    TB
1)  -     'N>    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             K,~~~~~~              K~~~~~   SC~~N  ANO ,TTES R
'POOANGA'NVNCA 
7   RECTA STANCA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IXR
BSEICT M AREDTO NORCTE (
A'                                        '"'"''    -       '  "'-   -9-'    ,.                         PRESTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  .  
NAOOPATANTE                                                                                                            ALTO SANTO              HALH   ENER
ARNEIROS              -    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PQETCRER
-  0                                     CFSTC.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
CIA             O2                                    '-K                          ERESRVCEREOE
-   C                   '"            CU     LANRASTA~F                                   OCAt&  CNOIC[NRSTUCIJE
om  KTTNITIR  ACTORS                                     C~~~~~~EGiNTAL HOETALTH VETER
CAIMEOS AC                               CAT6                                                                  EXERMNTL TTIN
/  VA B'    ECTENO,  C 5155~~~~~~~~~~~MAIQ-OA/RGINA    XTNSO
ANNI AR,BAAIfXIS NES-                                                                 SANEPCF TERV STAT  CTSCA
BAT"A"IA   0AAGAACLACTTJRANE OF   CR'E ERTSA:INESCITE
VS  75  DV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  RE                   FA AS    'VLEGFECNATIOAL C/SIKPFRACTVERTVE
KILCMETE~~~~~~~~~~C  PERNAMBUCO~~~~~~~~~C                      \AS                                                         0      Fl,0CNAL TIES NGUN
C99I., 9V,APrOO,AV  APES  REBO.JNCARIES  EWE    ER 
S/Sates. ary,aw,,n' o~~~rhoAq~~'s:a ~ SA E    R-TEG                   NV
'SAN  DO NORTE ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ACTISN NDSNT 
41'                                  40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~AARP  OCTA~RI   T~  NL,~SA VELA-3AKVFTHE'                                                                              C/OFCEsR






:I                                                                             39I                                        1 
0BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  Ij IE,A
.SOILS AND RAINFALL                                                       B R A Z
A,11r-1,A5T
3 W
- __ AORT4LE[A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ,
-\o0                *::::., .  \ -oA*o sooS
0                                          L   ] S1 UAIR[E FOR AGRIURY T       RAL UASSUE
_7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIA                                                                   E  FO     AG  ~LTRAIE SEROIS7
t-7~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TH-<                                          LIMIT-PAEDRATDNS
;@ve.v ... *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= ~SIT_v;]/!ABLE FO                                        WEDIE RGADSTR
.Rf 1  r     SOUNDAARIES EETW-EN CEARA Al\D PIATU
(ILR)fw*ETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ v PNLA  AVRG  RA NFL (A  M         CO1 1-
PERNAMBUCO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
Tr,s h sp has oske- preoa.ed    bZtoe World bank   otath e<latts  0,0/; se IheGresi sn/s  i                                              2
tfOO, sass z ,o Jdpt,er tcrthe:'a9    ztat/s of a n er.to7 or anvo dnor se het 0r: or                                
50~5p5't~5OaCc5.,opra7bnda.s 6                   y                                           _                     CP
41'                                     4CA TCVEAIHER 03AD5



