Document of               FIL   COPY
The World Bank                     IL  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2898-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 11, 1980
This document bas a restricted distributlos and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eentents may not otherwise be disclesed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979     October 22, 1980
Currency Unit     =     Cruzeiro (Cr$)            Cr$
US$1              =     Cr$26.85               Cr$59.60
Cr$l              =     US$0.037               US$0.017
ACRONYMS
CAP            =  Compra Antecipada da Producao
(Guaranteed Crop Purchase Program)
CEAG-CE        =  Centro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa
(Ceara Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises)
CEPA-CE        =  Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Ceara
(Ceara State Agricultural Planning Commission)
COBAL          =  Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian Food Company)
CODAGRO        =  Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento Agropecuaria
(Ceara Agricultural Development Company)
DAER-CE        = Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
DERE           = Delegacia de Educacao Regional
(Regional EducatLon Office)
EMATER-CE      =  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Ceara Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPACE          =  Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara
(Ceara Agricultural Research Company)
FSESP          =  Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica
(FoundatLon for PublLc Health Services)
FUNSESCE       =  Fundacao dos Servicos SociaLs do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara FoundatLon for Social ServLces)
IFAD           =  InternatLonal Fund for Agricultural Development
INCRA          =  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERCE         =  Instituto de Terras do Ceara
(Ceara Land InstLtute)
OCEC           =  Organizacao das Cooperativas do Estado do Ceara
(Ceara Organization of Cooperatives)
OME            =  Orgao Municipal de Educacao
(Municipal Education Office)
PCMU           =  Project Coordination and Management Unit
POLONORDESTE   =  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
SS             =  Secretaria de Saude
(State Secretariat of Health)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used Ln the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$43.68)
corresponds to the cruzeiro buyLng price as of February 20, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and ProJect Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$56 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 9.25% interest per annum
Project
Description:       The project would assist in raising the productivity and
incomes of about 60,000 farm families and about 1,100
small-scale entrepreneurs by providing: (a) agricultural
extension, experimentation, and land surveying, titling
and purchase services; (b) agricultural cooperative devel-
opment; (c) assistance to small non-agricultural enter-
prises; (d) feeder roads, marketing facilities, and small
irrigation systems; (e) education, health, and sanitation
services; and (f) project coordination and management.
The direct beneficiaries comprise about 20% of the small
farmer target population in the state, almost all of whom
fall below Brazil's relative poverty level. The project
would develop the institutional capacity to plan and
execute a coordinated rural development program covering
priority areas throughout the State of Ceara.
Risks:               This rural development project is the most comprehensive,
in terms of geographical area and coordination of programs,
to be attempted so far in northeast Brazil. It thus
presents certain planning and financial risks, in addition
to those linked to agricultural development. There is a
risk that planning and administrative capability may not
be adequate. The proposed annual operating plans and a
moving five-year plan, coordinated by the reorganized and
strengthened State Agricultural Planning Commission,
should, however, institutionalize the necessary planning
capacity. As the largest single project undertaken in
association with the Government's POLONORDESTE program,
there is also the risk of strained funding capacity.
However, the Federal Government's proposed budget for the
1981/82 POLONORDESTE fiscal year includes sufficient funds
to accommodate this project and to adequately finance
other ongoing projects. Finally, the agricultural develop-
ment risks will be reduced by the project's emphasis on
crop diversification, marketing, and small-scale irrigation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                                           % of
------ US$ millions -----       Baseline
Local    Foreign    Total         Costs
Agricultural Services
Rural Extension                      22.66       3.09      25.765      21.5
Agricultural Experimentation          1.76       0.19       1.95        1.6
Land Cadastral Surveys, Titling
and Purchase                       20.58       1.38     21.96        18.4
Agricultural Cooperatives             1.34       0.15       1.49        1.3
Sub-total                 46.34       4.81      51.15       42.8
Small-Scale Non-Agricultural
Enterprises                              1.19       0.16       1.35         1.1
Physical Infrastructure
Feeder and Access Roads               99.01      10.84     32.86       27.5
Small-Scale Irrigation Systems         1.21       0.14      1.34        1.1
Marketing and Storage Facilities       1.93       0.48       2.41       2.0
Sub-total                  25.15      11.46      36.61      30.6
Social Infrastructure
Education and Vocational
Training                             5.93       1.05       6.98       5.8
Health and Sanitation                  9.49       3.16      12.65      10.6
Sub-total                  15.42       4.21      19.63      16.4
Project Management, Coordination
and Studies                               9.82       1.09      10.91       9.1
Baseline Costs                           97.92      21.73    119.65      100.0
Contingencies
Physical                               8.63       1.90  - 10.53         8.8
Price                                 27.07       5.94     33.01       27.6
Sub-total                  35.70       7.84      43.54      36.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  133.62      29.57    163.19      136.4
Of which Local Taxes                   3.25       0.00       3.25       2.0
1/   Project baseline costs were calculated using the exchange rate as of
February 20, 1980 (US$1 = Cr$43.68). Project costs were converted into
dollars as of February 1980 (at the time of the appraisal mission), and
dollar-based price contingencies have been applied.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                     ------US$ millions------
Local   Foreign    Total
Government                     82.2         -      82.2
IBRD                           36.4     19.6       56.0
IFAD                           15.0     10.0       25.0
Total (including taxes)       133.6     29.6      16L2
Estimated
Disbursements:                       ------------- US$ millions ------------
Bank FY           1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual             3.5   10.0   12.8   13.6   13.0   -3.1
Cumulative         3.5   13.5   26.3   39.9   52.9   56.0
Rate of Return:       The economic rate of return is estimated at 19% for the
directly productive aspects of the project, which
account for 77% of total project costs.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 3020a-BR, dated October 31, 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$56 million
to help finance the Ceara Second Rural Development Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 9.25%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil earlier this year. The mission's
report will be distributed early next year.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
GDP and income per capita have risen at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline
in the rate of domestic inflation. Although income growth was unevenly dis-
tributed, available data indicate that most Brazilians shared in the absolute
improvement of living standards that was taking place. Among the sources of
development were a rapid growth of public sector investments, the expansion of
Brazil's agricultural frontier, the inflow of foreign capital and technology,
and a more than 25% annual growth of manufactured exports.
5.        However, the situation began to change after 1973.  One by-product
of the rapid growth process was a rising dependence of Brazil's industry and
transport system on petroleum, over 80% of which was imported. As a conse-
quence of successive oil price increases and rising domestic consumption, the
cost of petroleum imports rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$4.5 billion
in 1978. Although Brazil responded by increasing control over other merchan-
dise imports, particularly from 1975-1977, the current account deficit swelled



- 2 -
from an annual average of $1.3 billion in the 1970-1973 period to $6.0 billion
in the 1974-1978 span. This occasioned a rapid increase in external borrowing
and Brazil's medium- and long-term external debt (both public and private)
rose from $12 billion in 1973 to over $43 billion at the end of 1978, part of
which went to build up international reserves which expanded by $5.5 billion
over this period. Interest payments grew from $840 million to $3.3 billion
during this interval and, in turn, also figured importantly in the country's
current account deficits.
6.        Coping with the suddenly tightened resource constraint in the face
of continued pressures to maintain high economic growth rates has been one of
the basic problems of Brazilian economic management since the 1973-74 oil
crisis. The initial response in 1974 and 1975 was an effort to stimulate
import substitution industries and expand manufactured exports as rapidly as
possible while permitting continued growth in aggregate demand. However, as
a consequence of accelerating inflation in the face of constricted imports and
increased protection of domestic industry, in 1976 actions were taken to slow
the expansion of public sector expenditures and to tighten credit. This effort
intensified in the following year and with imports held at the same nominal
level for the third year in a row, GDP expanded by only 4.7%, the lowest
rate in more than a decade. The subsequent easing of fiscal and monetary
policies helped GDP growth to recover to 6% in 1978, spurred by a strong
industrial recovery and a 36% increase in manufactured and semi-processed
exports. Throughout the 1976-78 period inflation persisted in the 38-42%
range due, in part, to a rapid build-up in international reserves and a poor
agricultural harvest in 1978.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth
was 6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the continued
rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from
a small surplus in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7
billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978
to 1979 by 53%, or US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered
rate (LIBOR), to which about 60% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed
to raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to
US$5.3 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew
from US$5.9 billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion



was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled US$11.6 billion and
US$5.0 billion, respectively, compared to US$14.1 billion and US$8.8 billion
in 1978. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary credits,
and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available to Brazil
was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves to US$9.0
billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 5-1/2 months of goods
and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt rose to
US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports, and the imposition of a temporary export tax on primary
products;. increased restrictions on public enterprise investments, imports and
borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed phase-out
of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs intended
to reduce subsidies; establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and ex-
change rate adjustment during 1980 and the first half of 1981; and the imposition
of direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system.-
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum which had built over the past
two years appears to have continued during the first semester of 1980. Prelim-
inary reports indicate that overall economic growth for the six month period was
about 8%, due primarily to excellent agricultural harvests and continued rapid
industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong, fueled in part by the
still rapid nominal expansion of credit and generous wage adjustments. Inflation
reached nearly 100% for the 12-month period ending in June.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
39% during the first semester as a consequence of the excellent harvest and
a continued marked expansion of manufactured exports despite the slow growth
of the world economy. Imports expanded at an even faster pace, however, in
response to the continued strong growth of the economy, a build-up of petroleum
stocks and higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory accumulation
in anticipation of possible tighter import controls. The trade deficit for the
first seven months of the year totaled US$2.2 billion. External borrowing
during the first half of 1980 totaled about US$5 billion, and reserves were
drawn down by an additional US$3.1 billion. Although Brazil should be able to
obtain the US$7-8 billion net financing projected for the entire year, tighter
loan conditions are being evidenced. Total medium- and long-term external debt
outstanding at the end of 1980 will be about US$58 billion.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Coverage
of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and extended
to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered



- 4 -
by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has
been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to
the extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some
6 million households comprising about 30 million people have been connected
to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban
dwellers who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil expected to constitute US$10-11 billion (about
half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to US$700 million
(11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and balance-of-payments
viability continues to be a principal preoccupation of economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under consideration are
the elimination of the development banking responsibilities of the Central
Bank and the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating power.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



- 5 -
16.       The December 1979 devaluation of the cruzeiro and the removal of
import deposit requirements should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution.
Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource availabil-
ities over the next several years, priority attention will continue to be
given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and major
import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5.5% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-79.  Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit after 1980 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1980-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1985. As a proportion of GDP, the
current account deficit is projected to peak at 5.0% in 1980 and fall steadily
through 1985. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace,
reflecting continued import substitution, through 1985, as well as a strength-
ening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would then
appear beginnning in 1983.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$7-8 billion in 1980, and remain in the range of US$11-12 billion from
1981 to 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about $14 billion this year and
rise to about $21 billion over the five-year period, with 75-85% obtained as
financial credits from private lenders. Consequently the gross debt service
ratio 1/ would decline from about 62% in 1980 to about 47% in 1985 (correspond-
ing net figures are 59% and 45% respectively).
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will
continue to make projections subject to a wide margin of error. Thetpresent
scenario also depends heavily on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand
manufactured exports, despite the slower anticipated growth of the world
economy, and on its continued access to international capital. A major effort
is underway to reduce dependence on foreign petroleum, but significant results
will not be apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian
economy remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should
greatly strengthen their management capacity.  Thus, despite the deterioration
noted in 1979 and the first part of 1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By August 31, 1980 the Bank had made 99 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$5,283 million (net of cancellations), of which 52 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, and US$318 million in FY80 . They are expected
to increase further during the next few years. The total undisbursed amount
as of August 31, 1980 was US$2,643 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of August 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in
FY81, one loan has been approved, for US$125 million for a second power
transmission project of ELETROSUL. Work is relatively advanced on loans for
an electric power system coordination project, the fuel alcohol program,
a rural development project in Piaui, a second agricultural research project,
an integrated regional development program in the northwest, a mnulti-state
power distribution project, a third urban transport project, and a multi-state
water supply and sewerage project.



-7-
24.       Of Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank held 3.6%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%. In 1980, the
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very slightly,
while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.
25.       As of August 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$543.1
million, of which US$335.7 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$207.4 million, US$155.1 million represent loans and
US$52.3 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of August 31,
1980 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest"income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Ceara Second Rural Development Project is mainly directed.
Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational training,
agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder construction in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin and for integrated rural development in the
States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Se6rgipe
and Pernambuco were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas.
Additional projects to assist the rural poor are in preparation including
several more integrated rural development projects in the northeast and
northwest. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the State'of
Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans
for urban transport in several major cities, and a loan for sites and services
and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the
urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Additional urban transport,
water supply and sanitation projects are in preparation.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective is particularly important in the proposed project which seeks to
strengthen administrative and planning capabilities at the state, regional,
and local levels. It is expected that the experience gained by;the partici-
pating agencies during the proposed project's preparation and implementation
may be applied to future rural development efforts in Ceara and elsewhere in
northeast Brazil. Loans for electric power, railways, industrial finance,
hLghways, agricultural research and extension, water supply and sewerage, and
urban development also have important institution-building objectives-.



- 8 -
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations,
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions. Several other co-financings are in preparation,
including one for the second rural development project in the State of Minas
Gerais and two for the recently approved CEEE and ELETROSUL power projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints, and Policy
30.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy, employing about 40% of the economically active population and contri-
buting about 10% of the total GDP and about half of total export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest
producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. Other
major agricultural exports include meat and fish products, cotton, corn,
peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil is self-sufficient
in basic food production, except for wheat. From 1970-79, the average annual
agricultural growth rate was 5.1%.



- 9 -
31.       Despite productivity gains, expanded production areas, and increased
market integration, much of the sector, especially in the north, northeast,
and center-west, continues to employ traditional agricultural practices and
rudimentary technology. Constraints on increased agricultural production,
particularly for small farmers, include: limited access to institutional
credit, extension, and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting
services and infrastructure for marketing, storage, and transport; uncertain
land tenure and a highly uneven land distribution; and the absence of a stable
price policy to provide incentives for agricultural producers.
32.       Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-84), including measures aimed
at a more efficient exploitation of the country's agricultural potential.
Major policy objectives include: (a) the increase of basic staple and export
production, especially by small and medium producers; (b) the improvement of
production, storage, transport and marketing systems; (c) the expansion of
agricultural research and extension activities; and (d) the decentralization
of agricultural policy execution, and the increase of participation by the
private sector and state and local governments. Government measures aimed at
stimulating agricultural production and raising rural incomes, particularly
among small producers, include: (a) the strengthening of research and
extension services with an emphasis on the needs of small farmers; (b) the
support of special regional programs, such as POLONORDESTE in the northeast
and POLONOROESTE in the northwest, that focus on poorer regions and small-scale
farmers and/or the incorporation of new areas into production; and (c) the
announcement in May 1979 of a series of actions which included increased
access to institutional credit. As noted, to reduce petroleum consumption
the Government has given strong support to a large-scale alcohol production
program which has induced increased cultivation of sugarcane.
33.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the
heavy use of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates. With the
continuing high inflation rate, these rates are negative in real terms. The
subsidies were originally introduced some years ago to induce an expansion
in agricultural production by offsetting the high cost of inputs and giving
special assistance to disadvantaged groups. Recently, however, the drawbacks
of the system -- economic distortions and administrative complexity -- have
become increasingly apparent. The Government therefore initiated, in
December 1979, the partial indexing of interest rates to the rate of inflation
for most types of agricultural credit. An exception to this is credit under
special programs, such as the POLONORDESTE program in the northeast, where
political and welfare considerations have constrained the reduction of
subsidies.
Rural Development in the Northeast
34.       The POLONORDESTE program of area-based integrated rural develop-
ment, initiated in 1974 and including several Bank-assisted projects, has
expanded in geographical scope to some 49 priority areas throughout northeast
Brazil. However, the funding for POLONORDESTE and other rural development
programs designed to raise the productivity of small farmers in the northeast



- 10 -
has not kept pace, in real terms, with the expansion of rural development
activities which the Government has planned over the past few years. Further-
more, the overall management of the POLONORDESTE program, entrusted to SUDENE,
the federal government's regional development agency in the northeast, has
suffered from cumbersome procedures and inadequate authority and resources to
offer the program the strong technical and policy leadership needed. As a
result, the various special programs being executed in the northeast have
frequently overlapped, competing for scarce financial and administrative
resources. In contrast, good progress has been made by several of the north-
east states in improving their planning and execution capability for rural
development projects.
35.       While prospects for dramatic improvement in administrative arrange-
ments for POLONORDESTE are not bright, preliminary indications regarding
Government funding of next year's program are promising. The 1981/82 (April-
March) budget proposed for POLONORDESTE is 132% higher, in nominal terms, than
the present year's budget. Within the overall POLONORDESTE budget, priority
is being accorded to existing and new foreign-financed projects, including the
present one, to assure that all counterpart funds required are available.
This will be achieved in conjunction with only a slight reduction, in real
terms, of the level of funds flowing to projects in which the Bank is not
involved. In addition, new procedures were established in early 1980 to speed
the release of funds.
Bank Involvement and Objectives in Rural Development
36.       The Bank has made 18 loans, totalling US$648.0 million, for agricul-
ture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to US$110.6
million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million, for livestock
development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for US$40 million
for agricultural research; one for US$100 million to improve agricultural
extension services; and eleven, totalling US$318.7 million for various settle-
ment, irrigation and rural development projects, nine of which are located in
the northeast. In addition, there have been three loans, totalling US$196
million for fertilizer production, a loan of US$19 million for a nutrition
research and development project, a loan of US$32 million for a northeast
basic education project, and two loans totalling US$165 million for secondary
and feeder roads, which are having a direct impact on agricultural production
and rural development. Project performance audit reports have been issued for
the grain storage and livestock projects (not in the northeast), but none have
yet been produced for rural development projects.
37.       The Bank has actively participated in the rural development effort
in northeast Brazil since 1973 at the policy level and since 1974 at the
operational level, especially, but not exclusively, through the POLONORDESTE
program. The Bank has tried to help the Government to sharpen the focus of
efforts on behalf of the rural poor, and to better integrate development
activities (especially on the productive side), concentrated on selected
limited geographical areas. The lack of fully effective machinery to
administer the POLONORDESTE program at the regional and federal levels has,
in part, also dictated that the Bank concentrate its financing and technical
assistance efforts at the state level. The Bank is now financing six area
development projects in six different states: Rio Grande do Norte (1976),
Ceara (1977), Paraiba and Bahia (1978) and Sergipe and Pernambuco (1979).



In order to diversify the Govermnent's and the Bank's experiences in-rural
development, these projects are located in areas with marked agro-ecological
and socio-economic differences: semi-dry area (sertao in Rio Grande do
Norte), humid fertile serras (Ceara and Paraiba), humid coastal plateau
(Sergipe), transition zones (agreste in Pernambuco) and a large hydrographic
basin (Bahia).
38.       Initially, it was hoped that, as individual area development
projects multiplied, an effective regional administration for the program
would be established. This would have made it possible to consider Bank
financing (and technical assistance) for the whole program. However, an
overall program management capacity has been slow to develop, the Bank has
had to adjust its immediate lending strategy for the rural northeast to
include: (a) support for several additional area-specific development
projects with a possible Piaui project as the next example; (b) where possible,
support to state-wide multi-sectoral rural development activities, primarily
with a view to strengthening the state institutional capacity for planning,
coordinating and delivering rural services (as is the case with the proposed
project); and (c) complementary financing of sectoral projects with heavy
emphasis on the northeast, e.g., agricultural research and extension, feeder
roads, basic education and possibly agricultural credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
39.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Northeast Brazil - Ceara Second
Rural Development Project" (No. 3020a-BR dated September 12, 1980) is being
distributed separately. The project was identified by a Bank mission in April
1979 and was appraised in January 1980. Annex III contains a timetable of key
events in processing the project and a description of the special conditions
of the proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in
Washington, D.C., in September 1980, with a Brazilian delegation led by
Mr. Antonio Rocha Magalhaes of the Federal Secretariat of Planning.
Project Area
40.       The State of Ceara is broadly typical of Brazil's northeast.  Its
population of 5.9 million (1980 estimate) is 55% rural, and agriculture
employs 65% of the labor force. Agricultural conditions vary from the drought-
prone sertao, or semi-arid zone, which covers half the state, to favorable
areas along the coast, in humid highlands, and in river valleys. Fruits,
beef, cotton, manioc, beans, corn and sugar, in that order, are-the major
agricultural products. Output performance has been weak, with declining
yields on several important crops such as cotton, and increasing imports of
food. Land distribution follows the common inequitable pattern of the north-
east, with most farmers cultivating small farms, and 56% of farmers not owning
their land. Less than half of Ceara's adult population is literate, reflect-
ing poorly-developed social services. Outmigration from the rural areas
has increased in response to deteriorating agricultural conditions.



- 12 -
Prolect Oblectives and Strategv
41.       The proposed project would consist of planning and carrying out
rural development project activities directed at small farmers throughout
the State of Ceara. Project objectives include: (a) increasing incomes and
living standards for small-scale farmers and operators of non-farm rural
enterprises; (b) strengthening the capacity of state agencies working with
small farmers; and (c) testing state-wide rural development planning and
execution mechanisms for possible replication elsewhere in the northeast.
42.       This project constitutes the first attempt in northeast Brazil to
carry out a program focussed on improving the design and coordination of all
of a state's rural development efforts. The decision taken by the State
Government in early 1979 to use this approach to raise the output and incomes
of small farmers reflected its desire to build upon the positive experiences
to date with the Bank-financed project in the Ibiapaba area (Loan 1488-BR).
Further, the State Government wished to concentrate its administrative capacity
and funding from various special programs in a single coherent program. This
approach seems particularly indicated in Ceara, a state with institutional
capabilities relatively better developed than those in other northeastern
states, and with its entire area eligible for the POLONORDESTE program. The
project planning and management structure has been designed to coordinate all
the state's activities in rural areas, thereby eliminating the overlap among
similar programs.
Project Components
43.       The project would consist of the following components to be imple-
mented over a five-year period beginning in July 1980:
(a) Agricultural Services: Rural extension; agricultural experimentation;
land surveying, titling and purchase; and the strengthening of
some 12 agricultural cooperatives.
(b) Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises: Technical assistance and
training for small entrepreneurs and artisans.
(c) Physical Infrastructure: Expansion of the maintenance capability
and upgrading program for feeder roads; development of marketing
facilities; and introduction of small irrigation systems.
(d) Social Infrastructure: Expansion of rural basic education and
vocational training services; and improved rural health services
and sanitation facilities.
(e) Project Coordination and Management: Provision of administration,
monitoring and evaluation, and special studies.
43.       Rural Extension.  The project would expand agricultural and social
extension services in the state, and extension staff would also participate
in the land titling, cooperatives, and marketing components. This component
would aim primarily at increasing productivity, by providing farmer groups with
the know-how to raise yields on traditional crops, to plant higher-yielding
annual varieties of cotton, and to expand the area devoted to higher-value
fruits, vegetables, sugarcane and rice. To accomplish this, the number of



- 13 -
agricultural extensionists would be increased from 79 to 331, and social
extension workers from 39 to 165, while the number of local extension offices
would reach 130 from the present level of 99. Items to be financed under the
project include: (a) establishment of the 31 new local offices; (b) incremental
operating costs, including salaries for incremental staff; (c) establishment
and operating costs of demonstration plots on selected farms; and (d) costs
of staff training and farmers' short courses. The executing agency, EMATER-CE,
would utilize a training and visit system organized with the assistance of
rural sociologists, farmer groups, and contact farmers to reach some 60,000
small farmers and their families.
45.       Agricultural Experimentation.  The Ceara Agricultural Research
Company (EPACE) would carry out local adaptive experimentation with some 40
different production systems, aimed at improving agronomic practices for indi-
vidual field and tree crops as well as crops grown in consortia. The experi-
mental program would be carried out at the four existing research stations
located at Pacajus, Quixada, Barbalha, and Tiangua, and, with the cooperation
of the agricultural extension staff, on land owned by project farmers.
46.       The experimental program at each research station would focus on the
cash and food crops of greatest importance in the respective area, including
cotton, sugarcane, bananas, coffee, manioc, corn, beans, sorghum and vegetables.
Experiments related to livestock would emphasize small animal units, suitable
for family farms. A central nursery would also be established by EPACE to
produce, during the project period, some 272,000 saplings of citrus, coconut,
and soursop trees for sale to project participants. Items to be financed
under the component include incremental salaries and operating costs, construc-
tion, equipment and materials for the experimental work and sapling production.
The nursery program would be partially self-financed.
47.       Land Titling and Purchase.  This component would include (a) land
cadastral surveys and titling to clarify the occupancy situation of about
300,000 ha. of public lands and to provide land titles to about 6,550 farmers
(each occupying less than 100 ha.) now living on these lands; and (b) purchase
by INCRA (the federal land institute) in collaboration with the Ceara Land
Institute (ITERCE) of some 100,000 ha. of land for settlement by some 3,700
non-owners or very small owners through cooperatives or groups of small
farmers. Cadastral survey data are essential to the titling process, which
in turn would provide security of land tenure to small farmers, increasing
their incentive to invest and facilitating access to agricultural services
such as credit. ITERCE would also address the problems encountered by
landless farmers with rental or sharecropping arrangments, and would recommend
improvements which the project could subsequently promote. The staff of
ITERCE would be gradually expanded and trained in order to carry out the
titling, but topographical surveys would be performed under contract by
specialized firms.  The Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU)
would coordinate and supervise the settlement sub-component, with execution
of each settlement area being the responsibility of a local cooperative.
General settlement policies, and the respective roles of ITERCE, INCRA,
CEPA-CE, EMATER-CE, and the cooperatives have been agreed upon, but specific
lands for settlement have not yet been selected. The project would finance
the staffing, operating, and maintenance costs of the component, including
costs of new offices, surveying services, and vehicles; settlement design,
coordination and supervision costs; and the purchase of land, which would
be financed entirely with state and federal funds.



- 14 -
48.       Agricultural Cooperatives.  The project would help to strengthen and
expand agricultural cooperatives by (a) preparing development plans for 12 of
the 47 existing agricultural cooperatives, (b) providing technical and manage-
rial assistance to the selected cooperative, (c) establishing seed production
among cooperative members, and (d) constructing produce marketing and input
supply facilities. The Ceara Organization of Cooperatives (OCEC) would execute
the component and coordinate activities of several collaborating agencies.
The objective of the support provided by the project would be to develop
greater financial and managerial self-sufficiency for the 12 selected coopera-
tives, chosen on the basis of willingness to improve services to small
farmers. In certain cases, the cooperatives would expand the range of their
services to include land purchase and settlement activities. A field study
would be undertaken to select the 12 project cooperatives (three for the
first year's program have already been identified) and to formulate de-
tailed development plans for each. This study would be completed and pro-
vided to the Bank for comment by April 1, 1981 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.06). Technical and managerial assistance would be provided to
these cooperatives over a two to three-year period by four teams, eachi
consisting of a management adviser, an accountant and a cooperative education
adviser. OCEC and EMATER-CE would assist interested farmers in the agronomic
and managerial aspects of improved seed production, processing and marketing.
A total of 20 marketing posts would be constructed for 12 cooperatives and
three to six farmer groups in order to provide an alternative to the existing
private middlemen and to improve the prices received by small farmers. The
project would finance salaries for additional OCEC field staff working with
the selected cooperatives; marketing post construction costs and vehicle pur-
chase; and costs of training for cooperative staff.
49.       Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises.  The project would support
the development of about 1,100 small-scale enterprises performing a variety of
activities in the secondary and tertiary sectors, such as carpentry, tailoring,
retail sales, and electrical work. These enterprises would provide employment
especially for persons not absorbed by the agricultural sector, and would be
located both in the periphery of the larger towns and in smaller villages.
The Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises in Ceara (CEAG-CE)
would execute the component, establishing two regional offices and four local
offices of CEAG-CE and training technical assistance personnel. Some 16
additional staff would be hired over the project implementation period to
identify target enterprises, provide technical and managerial advice, and
assist in preparing bankable investment proposals. Training for the entrepre-
neurs themselves and their employees would be financed under the vocational
training subcomponent (para. 53). The state would enter into agreements with
local banks to ensure the availability of credit (not financed by the loan)
for the development of the enterprises assisted under the project. Technical
assistance by CEAG-CE would be limited to those small enterprises with less
than ten employees, fixed assets of under 200 MVR (US$9,000), monthly sales of
under 85 MVR (US$3,820) and a maximum owner income, from other sources, of
under 8 MVR or US$360 (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.12 and 2.15)-.
50.       Feeder Roads.  This component would improve year-round access to
rural communities and the maintenance of rural roads. The project would
finance: (a) the improvement of about 2,250 km. of municipal access roads;
(b) the strengthening of maintenance for the municipal road network;
and (c) the identification and evaluation of higher-standard feeder roads for



- 15 -
upgrading under an existing federal program financed by the Bank through
BNDE. The State Highway Department (DAER-CE) would be responsible for the
overall execution of the component. Engineering design and supervision for
road improvements would be carried out by consultants under contract to
DAER-CE; the construction would be performed by contractors. The state is
anxious to expand municipal road maintenance by DAER-CE and the municipalities.
Therefore, the project would finance the purchase of road maintenance equipment
and spare parts, to be operated and maintained by DAER-CE, and a stock of hand
tools for use by municipal road foremen who would be trained under the project.
DAER-CE would post a technical assistant to each of its field offices to help
the municipalities implement an improved maintenance system. Before the start
of any project-financed road improvements, an agreement would be signed between
DAER-CE and the relevant municipality covering a maintenance program for the
improved roads. The state would present to the Bank, in 1981 and in 1982, the
consultants' studies identifying feeder roads for upgrading; these improvements
would be carried out by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1984, respectively. To
provide needed liquidity, the state would advance funds to the municipalities
in anticipation of their receipt of funds from the Federal Highways Department
(DNER). A five-year plan for advancing and recuperating such funds would be
submitted to the Bank, for comment, by April 1, 1981 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.09).
51.       Small-Scale Irrigation Systems.  The project would support the
development of some 83 small irrigation systems benefiting about 1,100 families
organized into groups of 5-20 farmers. The component would include engineering
studies and technical assistance for systems whose off-farm investments could
be readily financed by group credit. On-farm works would also be financed
by banks, through either individual on group loans. Operating and maintenance
costs would be fully borne by the farmers. A recently-created working group
under the Coordenadoria de Recursos Hidricos of the state's Secretariat of
Planning and Coordination would coordinate and supervise the component,
prepare preinvestment studies, and participate in the detailed design process
along with other relevant agencies. A preliminary analysis of any system
costing more than US$100,000 would be provided to the Bank for agreement prior
to inclusion in the project. The farmer groups would already be established,
and would have formally accepted the financial responsibility for the irriga-
tion system, prior to initiation of detailed engineering assistance (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.10).
52.       Marketing Activities.  The project would include, in addition to the
district-level marketing posts in cooperatives (para. 48), the strengthening
of an existing crop purchase program, the expansion of the produce classifica-
tion system, and the improvement of the basic foodstuffs and consumer goods
distribution system in rural areas. This component would finance: (a) the
incremental salary and operatLng costs for an expansion of the guaranteed crop
purchase program (Compra Antecipada da Producao, CAP); (b) the installation,
rehabilitation and maintenance costs of two new and five existing product
analysis centers, five new and 25 existing product classification posts, and
two mobile supervision and classification units; and (c) the establishment of
three wholesale warehouses to supply retail outlets in rural areas with
competitively-priced foodstuffs and basic consumer goods. The CAP program has
been operating for two years in Ceara, with fair results, under the management
of CODAGRO. Under the project, CODAGRO's procedures and management would be



- 16 -
strengthened. Classification, or grading, of produce is a prerequisite
to participation in the Government's minimum price program, and inadequate
classification services have hampered the access of small farmers to this
important program. This is the rationale for strengthening the classi-
fication system, under the aegis of the state Secretariat of Agriculture
and Supply. The federal Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) would expand its
existing consumer goods distribution program, designed to offer alterna-
tives to sometimes monopolistic services in rural areas. Satisfactory
details of location and construction plans would be provided to the Bank
prior to construction of the wholesale marketing facilities under this
component (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.11).
53.       Education and Vocational Training.  The project would improve the
coverage and quality of rural basic education in the state, help develop
agricultural and vocational training, help expand non-formal adult education
programs, and strengthen education planning and management. The basic educa-
tion subcomponent would benefit annually some 39,000 students and cover 76
municipalities not already included under similar components of the Bank-
financed Northeast Basic Education Project (Loan 1867-BR) or the Ibiapaba
Rural Development Project. The items to be financed would include:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of 110 new and 450 remodelled
primary school classrooms, 17 rural education centers, and two Regional
Education Offices (DEREs); (b) remodelling and equipping of three secondary
agricultural schools; (c) provision of canteen equipment for school meals at
380 schools; (d) printing and distribution of textbooks and teaching manuals;
(e) purchase of student learning packages; (f) training/upgrading of about
3,600 teachers and administrators; (g) training in support of the small-scale
non-agricultural enterprises component of the project; and (h) project manage-
ment and tecnical assistance.
54.       The component would be managed by the state Secretariat of Education
and executed by the technical divisions of the Secretariat, the nine DEREs
(which supervise municipal education in their respective areas), and the OMEs
(Municipal Education Units) in the 76 target municipalities. Training for
artisans and small-scale enterprise workers would be the responsibility of
the state Foundation for Social Activities (FUNSESCE), which would first
carry out a study of the relevant manpower demand. School designs would
conform to prototypes satisfactory to the Bank and the proposed sites for
project schools would be provided to the Bank, prior to construction, by
September 30 of each year. Teachers' charters, as called for in the Northeast
Basic Education Project, would be presented by the mayors to the municipal
legislature of the participating municipalities by December 31, 1983. These
charters would define salary scales and job tenure rights.
55.       Health and Sanitation.  Health conditions in rural Ceara are charac-
terized by a relatively high rate of infant and child mortality and a wide
incidence of endemic diseases. The approach adopted would be to provide a
wide-coverage, low-cost health delivery system covering all the beneficiaries
of the project's productive components and about 30% of the remaining rural
population. Local health posts would be staffed by trained health attendants,
and would focus on pre-natal care, vaccinations, health and nutrition educa-
tion, and selected curative treatments. The health sub-component would



- 17 -
include: (a) the construction and equipment of about 200 rural health posts
and three health centers; (b) the upgrading of existing rural health posts and
health centers; (c) the training of about 830 rural health attendants, midwives,
and outreach health personnel, in addition to public health seminars for the
project staff; and (d) the strengthening of the regional health administration
network, including technical assistance.
56.       The proposed sanitation sub-component would provide for:  (a) the
construction of about 100 rural water supply systems in villages or towns
of up to 2,000 people; (b) the construction of some 14,000 pit latrines;
(c) the strengthening of state and local capacity to maintain the water
systems; and (d) the training of village water system operators. The water
systems would generally include a deep well, pump, storage tank, and public
hydrants, with more extended distribution and some house connections in larger
villages.
57.       The state Secretariat of Health (SS) would manage the health and
sanitation sub-components. However, the Foundation for Public Health Services
(FSESP) would continue its health services in municipalities it now covers,
under an agreement with SS. A component coordinator would be appointed by
SS, along with a Coordination Committee composed of SS departments, and a
new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Unit would be set up in SS. Village
health associations would execute the component by: (a) contributing land
and other resources needed in the construction of health posts and water
systems; (b) operating the water systems; and (c) collecting user charges.
The pre-investment studies of the water supply systems to be implemented each
year would be included in the annual project operating plan. A local health
association would be established before starting construction of each water
system, and an agreement would be reached with that association to define
its financial responsibility for meeting operating and maintenance costs
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
Activities Parallel to the Project
58.       Credit.  Agricultural credit would be made available to all project
beneficiaries, through existing rural credit lines without Bank financial
participation. Credit is not included in the project because of the economic
and administrative problems caused by the current 10% nominal interest rate on
POLONORDESTE credit. This credit line, which is available in the project
area, carries highly negative real interest rates, lower than rates for normal
rural credit. However, credit is essential to the project and would be
closely linked to project-supported on-farm development and improvements in
the extension service. Total incremental credit requirements for the five
years of the project are estimated at US$45 million equivalent, of which some
42% would be for seasonal short-term credit (financing up to 75% of production
costs), and 58% for medium and long-term investment credit. The Government
would take all necessary steps to ensure the availability of adequate incre-
mental credit to small farmer project participants, and a Project Credit
Statistics and Monitoring System would be established by June 30, 1981 within
the PCMU to evaluate the performance of the credit system (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01 and draft Project Agreement, Section 2.13).



- 18 -
59.       Input Supply and Mechanization Services.  The project is certain
to raise the demand for input supplies, especially fertilizers, pesticides,
seeds and improved planting material for fruit crops. Some project benefi-
ciaries will also require tractor services for land clearing and preparation.
These inputs and services would be provided by the state's Agricultural
Development Company (CODAGRO) and by some of the cooperatives, in addition
to competing privately-owned services. CODAGRO has 120 sales posts and
15 tractor stations throughout the state. The existing network should be
able to meet the incremental needs arising under the project, but the PCMU
would review the situation annually and recommend appropriate measures to
state authorities. The project's only direct assistance to input supply
would be the 20 supply posts to be provided by agricultural cooperatives,
(para. 48).
Management
60.       A State Rural Development Council is being created to coordinate and
guide rural development activities in Ceara. This council is composed of
representatives of the principal agencies involved in rural development in
the state. It is headed by the Governor, and in his absence, by the State
Secretary of Planning. Day-to-day coordination, administration, evaluation
and monitoring of the project would be undertaken by a Project Coordination
and Management Unit (PCMIJ), established within CEPA-CE. This unit would
include a headquarters staff in Fortaleza and eight regional coordination
offices; qualified key personnel are now being hired. The various components
of the project would be executed by existing agencies, e.g., EMATER-CE for
rural extension, EPACE for agricultural research, etc.
61.       The PCMU would assist these executing entities in the preparation
of their annual statewide rural action plans and the specific project compo-
nent operating plans, thus linking the project to statewide planning and
improving the overall efficiency of resource allocation. An adjusted state-
wide five-year rural development plan, including the specific elements to
be financed under this project, would also be produced annually. The PCMU
would conduct monitoring and evaluation activities, including quarterly
project reports and (every other year) farm productivity surveys. It would
also prepare a mid-project evaluation report by June 30, 1983 and a full
evaluation after project completion (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
By April 1, 1981, the PCMU would provide to the Bank, for review and comment,
(a) recommendations for project data to be monitored and analyses to be
performed, and (b) the design and analysis plans for the farm surveys.
Studies would be carried out under contract, according to terms of reference
agreed by the Bank, on technical and social aspects of the project including:
soil conservation, state water resources (especially groundwater potential
in dry areas), produce marketing, and sociological studies 'draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.14). The project would include equipment, staff, mate-
rials and contract services to maintain the PCMU during the five-year project
period.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
62.       To retain flexibility in planning and execution of the project, each
executing agency involved in the project would prepare jointly with the PCMU a
detailed annual plan of activities and expenditures for the coming year (April-
March 31, corresponding to the POLONORDESTE fiscal year). The integrated



- 19 -
annual plan would be reviewed and approved by the State Rural Development
Council prior to submission to regional and federal authorities. The annual
project operating plan would be provided to the Bank by September 30 of the
previous year for review and comment, and the Bank would be advised of the
final approved plan before the start of the fiscal year on April 1 (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02, and draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
63.       The state would also undertake to ensure the compatibility and
coordination of all rural development activities in the state with appropriate
support from the Federal Government (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03, and
draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01). This effort to coordinate the
planning and programming of all the rural development programs in the state
would take several years to become fully effective, given the various sources
of finance and institutions involved. The planning exercise for 1981/82 would
coordinate the proposed project with the other major programs in Ceara (e.g.,
existing POLONORDESTE, Sertanejo, water resources and irrigation projects).
In the following year, additional programs would be incorporated into this
coordinated planning process. Thus, over time, the project would provide the
mechanism for complete coordination of the state's rural development activities.
64.       The state government would enter into written agreements (convenios)
with certain participating entities to specify their respective project
responsibilities and to help assure timely project execution. Agreements
would be signed with the agencies involved in cadastral surveying, titling
and land purchase, agricultural cooperatives, education and vocational training,
sanitation and health, marketing and non-agricultural enterprise components.
The state would enter into and maintain all such agreements as are necessary
for proper coordination of the various agencies involved in these components.
The signing of the agreements would be a condition of disbursement for the
respective components (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, and draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.04).
Project Cost and Financing
65.       Total project cost over the five-year project period (mid-1980 to
mid-1985) is estimated at US$163.2 million, including local taxes of US$3.2
million. Physical contingencies amount to 8.8% of baseline costs, and price
contingencies are equivalent to 27.5% of baseline costs. Price contingencies
have been calculated in US dollar terms, as follows: for equipment and civil
works, 10.5% in 1980, 9.0% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% per year thereafter;
for other materials, supplies, and salaries, 8% per year.
66.       The proposed Bank loan of US$56 million would finance 35% of project
costs net of taxes. The balance would be provided by the Federal Government,
through the POLONORDESTE program, by the State Government, and by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Negotiations between
the Federal Government and IFAD for a co-financing loan of US$25 million are
expected to be completed by the end of 1980. The standard legal and dis-
bursement arrangements for joint financing would be made between the Bank
and IFAD, to be incorporated subsequently into the loan documents. The
Bank loan would be for fifteen years, including three years of grace. It
would cover 66% of the project's estimated foreign exchange cost of US$30
million equivalent (with IFAD providing the remaining 34%, in proportion to
the size of the two loans), as well as US$36 million (27%) of the local



- 20 -
costs. It seems reasonable for the Bank to finance this portion of local
costs in order to make a meaningful contribution to a project designed to
raise the incomes and living conditions of the rural poor in Brazil's northeast.
Retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million equivalent would be permitted to
help ensure a prompt start of project execution by financing eligible expendi-
tures incurred after June 30, 1980. The State and Federal Governments would
continue to finance essential complementary activities not included in project
costs, such as previously initiated rural development activities and agricultural
and small non-farm rural enterprise credit.
Procurement
67.       Vehicles, material and equipment (totalling about US$10.0 million)
required by the numerous executing entities are locally produced and readily
available; they would therefore be procured in accordance with acceptable
local procurement and bidding procedures. Contracts for feeder road construc-
tion (about US$25.0 million, excluding contingencies) and for any civil works
required for the village water supply, agricultural cooperatives, marketing,
and education facilities (an additional US$9.0 million) would be awarded to
prequalified bidders on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory. The Bank would review the standard road construction
bidding and contract documents before the first round of bidding, but awards
would be reviewed on an ex-post basis. Brazil has a competitive local con-
struction industry capable of carrying out the project works. Since individual
construction works would be fairly minor and quite dispersed, foreign contrac-
tors are not expected to be interested, although they would not be excluded.
Other very small construction works (for health posts and other items, total-
ling US$0.7 million) would be carried out through a combination of self-help,
force account and local bidding. Consultancy services, totalling about 65
man-years or US$3.3 million (US$3,850 per man-month average cost), are expected
to be provided mostly by Brazilians, but foreigners would not be excluded
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4).
Disbursements
68.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed at two different rates:
55% for all categories until June 30, 1983, and then at a rate calculated to
bring total project disbursements to 36% of eligible expenditures. The
higher rate of disbursement in the first years is justified by the exceptionally
tight financial situation in which Brazil finds itself while attempting to
bring down the rate of inflation and adjust its balance of payments to high
petroleum prices. The eligible disbursement categories exclude the land
purchase sub-component, so the Bank would finance overall 35% of total project
costs net of taxes. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of
Brazil, against withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditures
initiated by the project executing entities and certified by the PCMU.
Standard documentation for civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical
assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Supporting documentation for other
items -- salaries, administrative expenses, and minor construction under
force account -- would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained



- 21 -
by the PCMU and made available for the Bank's inspection during project
supervision missions. Disbursements are expected to occur over about five
years. Special conditions of disbursement are summarized in Annex III.
Accounts and Auditing
69.       Accounts of project expenditures would be maintained by each of the
executing entities. The PCMU would maintain accounts of its own project
expenditures, as well as statements of expenditures by each executing entity.
All accounts would be audited annually by Government auditors according to
standard Government practice, which is satisfactory. Audited statements of
all project accounts would be provided to the Bank, through the PCMU, within
six months of the end of the fiscal year. These reports would include
specific reference to the eligibility for project financing of items paid
for with disbursements based on statements of expenditures (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Sections 4.04 and 4.05).
Cost Recovery
70.       The Government does not seek payment from small farmers for agricul-
tural services or social infrastructure. Other project costs - for on-farm
development, small irrigation systems, land clearing and settlement, and
non-farm enterprises -- would be partially recovered through the credit
system. The degree to which these costs will be recovered in real terms
depends upon future developments in Brazil's inflation rate and in the
Government's policy of special subsidies in agricultural credit for the
low-income beneficiaries of rural development programs. Costs of feeder road
upgrading and maintenance would be recovered through road user taxes.
71.       Project activities would give rise to about US$4.3 million per year
in additional recurrent costs to the Government, following the project dis-
bursement period. These expenses would mainly be for agricultural extension
and experimentation, social services, and project administration. The
additional recurrent costs are expected, however, to be more than offset
by additional revenues of roughly US$5.8 million annually generated mainly
by the Tax on Product Circulation (a value-added tax) and the Assistance Fund
for Rural Workers (a sales tax), which would apply to most of the incremental
agricultural output under the project.
Benefits
72.       The estimated annual value of incremental farm production at full
development (1988) would amount to some US$70.6 million at February 1980
farmgate prices. Farm models representative of the range of ecological,
physical, and socio-economic conditions in the project area indicate that
about 30% of this incremental value would come from cotton production, 30%
from fruits and vegetables, and 40% from traditional subsistence crops.
Increased farm production would be achieved by gradually substituting higher-
yielding annual varieties of cotton for existing perennial types; raising
yields on traditional crops through improved inputs and management; and



- 22 -
promoting the cultivation of high-value crops such as fruits, vegetables,
sugarcane, and rice, which would result in an 18% increase in the cropped
area over the project period. The project would increase the output of
small-scale non-farm enterprises by 25-30% through technical assistance,
training, and access to credit. These results are predicated on the combined
impact of the project's directly productive, support service and infrastructure
components.
73.       The estimated agricultural income of a typical project farm family
is expected to increase, based on a weighted average of farm models, from about
US$900 to some USS$1,600 (in 1980 dollars), over an 8 to 12 year period. All
of the direct project participants are currently estimated to have incomes
below the rural relative poverty level of about US$330 per capita, or US$1,650
per family. The real incomes of an estimated 45% of project participant
families would exceed the present poverty level at full development.
74.       An increased demand for agricultural labor amounting to some 46,000
worker-years annually would be created under the project, to be met almost
entirely by family labor. In addition, employment opportunities for some
2,200 more workers in small non-farm enterprises would result from project
activities. Some of these non-farm enterprises would involve traditional
women's activities such as embroidery, lace-making and fruit-preserving.
Employment opportunities are also expected to be generated indirectly in the
service and commerce sectors.
75.       The estimated economic rate of return for the project, based on
direct production benefits and related costs (77% of total project costs),
is about 19%. This quantifies the impact of the project's agricultural
services, non-farm enterprises, and physical infrastructure components.
Indirect non-quantified benefits would also accrue to the investments in
extension and experimentation through demonstration effects on the 80% of
Ceara's small farmers who would not be direct beneficiaries. The project
components not included in the economic analysis -- those relating to
education, vocational training, health and sanitation -- would have
significant but not readily quantifiable benefits for the 1.2 million
rural inhabitants of Ceara.
76.       The benefit stream used in the economic analysis reflects the
incremental crop production of the direct project participants. Prices are
based on projected farmgate prices which include the impact of rural road
improvements. Border prices (adjusted for transport, handling, and insurance
costs) were used for cotton, coffee, oranges, rice, sugarcane, corn and
bananas, which are internationally traded goods. Labor was valued at full
market rates, a conservative assumption, to reflect possible labor shortages
at periods of peak demand, despite the prevalence of seasonal underemployment
in the area. The relative value of foreign exchange costs and benefits was
adjusted upward by 15% to take account of various taxes, subsidies, and
non-tariff barriers. The best estimate rate of return of 19% would be reduced
to 13% by simultaneously increasing costs 20% and lowering benefits 20%.



- 23 -
Risks
77.       As the first rural development project spanning priority areas
throughout Ceara, the scope of the project would entail considerable demands
upon the administrative and planning capabilities at the state level. The
project presents the risk that planning capacity may be spread too thinly to
be effective. It is particularly important that the planning for the proposed
project, consisting of annual operating plans and a five-year moving plan,
should be coordinated with and eventually fully reflect the planning of all
state executing agencies active in rural areas. The required institutional
capacity has been built into the project by the establishment of a Project
Coordination and Management Unit within the Ceara State Agricultural Planning
Commission, which also includes planning for other federally-funded rural
development programs. Coordination would be further strengthened by the:
creation of a State Rural Development Council.
78.       The proposed project would also share in the financial risks associated
with the Government's POLONORDESTE program, through which the federal counter-
part funds will be channelled. In the past, this program has suffered from a
number of administrative problems, slow disbursement of funds, and inadequate
funding levels (paras. 34-35). By making large financial demands on the
program, this project could accentuate existing difficulties. However, recent
discussions between the Bank and the Federal Government have resulted in a
better understanding of the magnitude of counterpart funding requirements for
projects under the POLONORDESTE program, a Government commitment to make these
funds available, and a budgetary allocation in the proposed 1981/82 federal
budget which is fully adequate to support planned and ongoing foreign-financed
projects.
79.       Finally, there is the risk that abnormal weather conditions, such
as continued drought, will frustrate the attainment of expected yields and
farmer incomes. However, the diversified agricultural plans, the experimen-
tation and extension services, and the small-scale irrigation component should
help to alleviate these risks. Overall, the project's potential to benefit
some 60,000 lower-income farm families directly, and more through improved
health and education services, coupled with the steps proposed to strengthen
the administrative and planning capabilities in the state of Ceara, make the
risks acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Ceara and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Art-icles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 24 -
81.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of disbursement for the respective components would
include the signing of agreements satisfactory to the Bank between the state
and the agencies participating in the land cadastral surveys, land titling
and purchase, agricultural cooperatives development, education and vocational
training, health and sanitation, marketing and small-scale enterprises
components (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 11, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                    ANNEX I
BIAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEYGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EM.)                                                      - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTIJRAL    2067.2                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME          IIIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 320.0       580.0    1570.0                  1384.1                   2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTIOV1 PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0      474.0     794.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     71.5        95.2     119.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1        55.9      63.3                    63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECtIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS BEACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        8.0        11.0      14.0                    28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. 1ll. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      58.0                    81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        42.6      41.7                    41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                        53.8        54.3      54.9                    54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         3.1       3.4                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.9       2.8                     2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              5.5         4.8       4.5                     4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.0         38.0      36.0                    34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH BATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.0         9.0       9.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.6       2.4                     2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.6
FWOD AND NUTRITION
MIDX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0    112.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
BEtlUIREMERTS)                 101.0       104.0    107.2                    107.4                    125. 3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        62.0      62.7                    65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       34.0        34.0      35.1                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0        10.0       9.0                     8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0        61.0      62.0                    63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..                     66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        56.3      77.1                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        77.7      88.8                    80.4
RURAL                               ..        29.0      56.8                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.9      64.8                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        86.1      83.7                    79.4
RURAL                               ..        26.5      31.7                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3600.0      1910.0    1700.0                  1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3220.0       ..                   1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSP1TAL BED
TOTAL                            309.0       262.0    253.0                    480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        18.0        ..                      ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1         4.8       4.9
URBAN                               ..         4.6       4.7
RURAL                               *          5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.1
URBAN                               ..         1.0
RURAL                               *-         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      63.0
URBAN                               ..        75.6      84.9
RURAL                               ..         8.4      19.2



- 26 -                                      ANNEX I
Pane i
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA jS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        125.0      90.0/c                    99.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0      89.O/c                   101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                93.0        125.0      90.0cL                    99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0      24.ohc                    34.4                      64.0
MALE                  11.0         26.0      22.0Lc                    33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                10.0         26.0      26.0/c                    34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.0Lc                    38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0        28.0       22.0                      30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0      11.0                      14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        25.0       52.4                     43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.0       124.0      155.0                    245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0        64.0       93.0                     84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAMD POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      39.0                      63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9       2.6                        ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22872.9       30057.3   37704.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5         20.4      22.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9        45.6       41.0                      37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         18.3      22.0     .               23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6      31.5                      31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  52.7         50.3      49.5                      48.9                      55.'9
FEM1ALE                               11.2         12.8      13.6                      14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.4                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCEN1T OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5      62.0.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..      150.0                     190.8.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      465.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      332.0                    332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
.Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years: therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
April, 1980



-27-                                                                          ANNEX I
-..:  11t006  the 4.1  ore drm  fo. .eo0.  ga.1                    J.4sd the aor -  trl.tAti,. at oelhl.. it ehe'U  .1.. .... -thl bth Cml at he uet--
-to.ll1y  .-preh. bb-be. of tho lok of ft..-dio.i-dof timto at   -ou.. o.W by difImat   -.1-2*   i. -olletlog  the fee.                                    dob e a..0
thlet   .fo  to deEtib. o,de..f W.t.l1 . i0400.6  Itat.. at  he.oot.                     "Al. -jo, 411tff -o   %e .    -or.I-.
The tfr      Eo. "m .  .1..   (1) the emb  omt.y P."0  ef the   &J.ot t.-tt  ..d (2) A ootoy 800P with .h.    hiaho, o..o.   4,bbowwobbbm   01U   sml
oft_ochoe.mt               oPt.0 E _C.pt_L .l  Epl_.01 toil     r1    P."e.       r  "Mimi. leo     Nort  Aftir  at 80642. 1-Cl  L. %.o. atm. *fet
.oio-rotat-a  off 1t11.). - 1. the refer. .. oa   dot. the  -w.p.e a. popaal-to    iNhtM  .tOiteimi    -a  for .00  l01e1NO    NW  &p  bal  wk. 
le-t h:If of 16. L-nibb. is. A .   at b   do.U IN  thet 2*fIt. .  Is-t  the o00y4  tof omOn-  m."  tk. lodlrt4on &M -&                               the    11*L1.l" of
dot. AMd I. at -llf-0. t..I"   mebt h.  'aa.le     L. otlo-ie  o..m  of -   loi-oto  to a.tho.  T00.0 orr..t. ly mote  I. Apo                                    t1be 00k
0.0   2*dicot_   E A Ltm_.   theop    at  _fO.fao  tra..
JOL"     (theoot  q.e.                                                                        Ooeo1t.tIo  at PhyWAR1    - P.pp.1tloo OlolAN  by         er, 00 pnaft10   Ps7-
101T.1tor a.f  AnA    Wupl"e1.gla   to   a   bind ...o,                                   iL.. quoli led -,-At W-                 -   a  lol.601 1 -o.i tt y 1-01.
herigolt ...l - lotloet  of Awrtat ..r.  a-   -.d  -.p -o ly o- Po.itly                     tm           e 0    *Le   o  rmo  - Popoltlo. 41,14.  by -.b   of Pt.ttoibe
for cro.., P-t-p. mrht N04 kl1th. saj, a  o. 110 fell.; 1977 4t.1..                          a       f-1 80.401t.            . *p-toiool at . mf NmiNta  m-..
100F CAIUA  WEVI) - GO  Pbo oi.to eoUtlt              t1 terrt arkt prl... 0.1-           ,t .,  "..4            4",1 ire  bythe=     29m,toi                         b=.&hepte
-.I.tt.d by  -.   --I.r2. mhed -  6W-Id Nat Atlit  (1976-78 bb.2*); 1948.                      _1,1  2* p.Mul  -A  901..  a01po  ateedlod                        tla 
19Th. at 1978 A01.                                                                           h0JI*.          omdt.u.  4.epIt. a . -    "ail8imp pe.1owy  .101 
by et bt a.yhocl.. b 1192ms                       -.          mlpoflh  -90."
_____________________    emol  e.t1a        _ot10     _aW   (-. ea                               t lotlede.  k-a.  heepd.01.e  bpba,p  i0.I   A00bbath            mlo
7~~=             d byd.-. -1-   -d I-thsma   a__                    rt...  t  Po..ly  .0.f10   by A pby.btli  SOM  by A mpil..  dwletin.
"trilty) i. bU..rm  o  o.   81ItP-  WNItO; 1860. 1970. at 1818                               at     . 60.1.. ott.) 40o  of ft  1.-Podeet .somfifu   at PR-""  A
d.to.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IiELtd rbpe of atloO   fecilitim.  lk  et.1t*40I voe90   VRm  Wpt
P~~1.4ll  *   0110*. 9q15yI~~~I                                        tt1:1. o1.4ekpot .1le1   ear-l at ep-tindla  hweitu2. NW  Mo,e
-  t100  -                - ~~~A. of J.171 l  1840. 1870. at 1878             0oi.9t1t-Ttl~                                 f~tott                 loa
401..  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ArTth  a -.r of 6.40.                                                                                         l--
Or.  ailto     eom   f brtaft     - 8012  tf .0.  to t.ttt  ppw101.
41  em    etla,.    .f.k.  Oo m   effrt tWA-obt Ity of 4000si
-~0m 2.I; t140. 1970. at 1978 dOo.Atm0..                                                                     WUkeehI    2*00mmE .e e"    A       0.1    a.a    w
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A he.ohel   -a.It. of A groe  oE  1041.lMo .t= .hrlo.qeott.
Mr.       tl."i~      C-ort poooi.   oJortot.  -  b-oe  a  1860                      at their         -A ..I.  A b-,rdo  or  -ogrm           a y  at heI- d L.1. .42
Lap0bl        Abd  -.  W0 their -arttly  -4 frt-lllty r.tt..                 the atoehel  fe, ettltitol  _P-o.a
Proletl. po-mt.. ft. -mbtlLty oot- o..r2*  tf thr.  lereit  AoS                        A.a           ro    o na    ..-ttl   r.,a    ,00-fote    .
Wo.. 0   fmolelife eep.t-.y  t10612*2*  ot 77.5 lOot.. Th  pre.-                    atll2*.,  .prtol.  Dimiw   -In d. a-ptO0.t e-tomoe  at
f     ftIyooo2a to 2*a- 1001a   p t         ally-1  plm 1*g  p     Lfom..         00. t..P     .t PAL .   ora.fde1j.1-111   0k,atal
Koktoor    te  thm oled  M- o  thi. 2* -tatola   e   ro y                         C...t.AlA  6_112 i.0  6 .o-otrtity 1. 11,6.  qoatto   -  Pe-rtate
lttoer altl t     - Ie. .ttt.ey paAt1.O              ther. I.e 09 Irmtb 01.-
t60 bIrtb  oLot I. ".ao to the deth rot.,.at ala  1k. Age fra--. re-
abe  o._ t..T.  5.e i. ookle.d  aly of  E fertilty rota Omi  t. t
the r_pi_oe t 1-v1 of alt ..  rEp.Pdeti-..  Nl. .1b     -1bh 9-ol1-0                     Ple,ehe    ttt1.m.   atLe  fatl   - tr0  tetel. -Uh bod Emle
of amrPlsoe   110.11 ...ooly.  Tb. etAttoay 90p.o.ti.. albtb.olato   11..   ~10                                                 ~     1.1apoo.0t   fro.1*
.olt..d 0.teho   fth    .it0    hrotr.b.o   10ppllo                                          r..ry  ohel         -.poelt to.; o.-Lly Ibol -e  oh-lldoBm  NOf  -PlU
2* the Ya. 2000. at the 0.t0 of 40011-.. tf -trility re1* t.  wL00y-he   41 0 P,                                 to differ..lt 1. 1k. .1 p .at. .NoE.10   torw   -
_it level.-- ro                                                                                   tot  wi-th oIooe. d.4.0. ..CatlImo f          y  mat  80 prf
10001*10.00  0002*10. 0   -htkd - The Y-o   k-0  t.tOtiOoy pp01 t2*1100. t2                       1topopil  o.he..   orte,  h  off~ lole  oh.1 ..P
ft.tt.  .okmat 0.060.                                                                       Sraer othet - 1.00.00.a   f   le- CA.Pote   -  .ht,; .00004007
PeW. he. - MUA-y_Er ptp,-itt.  p.r eqoor  hllmt.r  (100 heJor.) tf                         p-eoLe   -arl   o.t.I   or t.,ot  -r.2*I.  heot-oci   for p091
tot1   ra                                                                               -otly o  12 to 17 y.ore of 0ito ..a.e oomAt. e..roly
Pe e.he ert-lae  1004 - Ce.pt0   a  ee. for  g.ri at.orl lat                          mo04d
11011960. 1978. at 1970 dt10.                                                            d.tl  ort.deortt  o  .oedoy   *.ltL.0.
fro.li . loth  la1  (arot) - tote  - Aa.,1 wrtkrh .t.. of 1.00  .14                     lba-leb.o  -Ll.t -  o.,  .4aodo      101.001.aola
y-pepotol.  fto 1930-60, 1840-l0, at 1970-78.                                              -otOory a    .eto0.ryl.      l    0d~b   ,o.o    oeti  h
Pmfolo."Floah 8.10  (.-cect) - or..- 00`-`1 eroh  --e  of 0060  p000-                         A4,1 lte1rorvoe.t. ("n-t00   - Lltret.t   41.1t. (okl. to ot" e.  00100)
loiot  fo  19 50-00. 1900-70, at 197 0-7.
Cr0. 8006Roe lo totEo4I - Aaoe.1 11. 610060 p.r th..oj of  i1d-y-.                         00pottg   f001000   oo.l   641   aNa    00
PopOlot;190.190. a   1978 000..                                                        copOwe.hlOe
Cr04 Deolh Pole la- qkoeee     - Imoe  0.0t60 Per the.otd of .1d-y-0                       poa.  oN(0  h,o4t.lolo       a.8rcr   aro    .0
po= itli;.. 1960. 190       Mt17   t0..                                                      c.. 0tiOe 1... thoo b1g61 pori    -.clodo    t.L--, heArt.. at
lht.,_ aEL   I.EdotOO O.-o.r.E    ohrf d"eht                ma.0111 hoot I0
he  ee.lrerooti.e   d10  if eh   peio.  p         r.- ..PE t o.-epoifi. f.r-         oitory vekIol...ll.7.                                          - ..   f       .d
tility root; uqlyfe-year   -Me..o  -d1e   10 1940. 1970. at 1877.                          60-d00l to t 0..   oIopr  hea   fppltio   .ld.al
0 , 101.- Aoo'tor. A0.01 itheo-.d.  - *0.01 otahor ot ..et...a   ot.r    00,li.a    *yr   OS   .0tobO    f04 01
of birtt-cotrl dtui.    dt.,  -opi... of .00100   1 ally 11*002*  P000.-                   v.   o.fa;d1 Oorn                     io. a,at-          oapoelo   fo ..d
0.001, FP.-..  U- bore  toret of mtrid    fal             -      tg0000. of arood              Oaol.. .11.60   11..Eoloo.                 -    _     .            -.
.11 Eried at      *om..00...eo  pbhlo~ per  hbo.o     popettlo; aoI04.  o110.... W TV  -ri-or
I.X .MITION                                                           i.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 rcotOi.. .04 L. yA.r. vh. -r.elt..ti. of TV .ot. io.  f*ttb t.
10.01FodP.W-oti-o..o  C001t0 (1969-71-100) - TM.  of per 00010it. A-l                         tmOO.0  Cid   P Eit .9.0..   .oa   dtlt .n) -%~ -     .. o.r...  irool-
o..t-f .11 foo A.tiie    000001.0i  1..o             .. oat at 0f04  ...              01.o 1diy1          ao   eeetoopoo,41*4o      .1401pk
poodeotie.                                                           111*11.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILti   d00t10402*-011   or Eorod2*o et-to   mao   It - id ... 
1.o  rl -.ry.  6b.1..  C.-diti..co-.  p01.-07 Coo.                                 LIg 00ro. t  be'ol'iItppr.O10.  leer tO..e,          000.           L
100.0  o    i*e h) .610kt    di1bl  -00 rootoi .toott. (.e.srtt.   atf.        cbadAO   Atae.                    At0 ool at, I.er t- 8040   h   1h
W, r..0144.  ASSr.e.t. prodortio  of  -h0 -ot"  1. booS  - ot.i.-Te,-MW                                                                          t. ..  
_t0100*    _g004  prod-ot  polo, alibht.; 1961-65. 1970, at 1978 401.                       tloel to.ld d.r* L.&to. y-eor. Loodie g         l. .t  4d10.-.it  1 .00
P_r ceit. etl   f0100  (artoot  f r.la.                      - Co-utd b,,                  a aa.bu 1    it'..
Zt001  .9 .1000t of tet food  -pjlli.e,l.bl. i. rotyprrpl                           .0  00
- 00doy.  A,.110b1e eupli.. cepri.. d-..ir  04010   oot e.                             700 10  loY..e (16h0.- d.)  F-i10.al.ly .011, P.te., 1.010410
-000..d  hbo.".  I.  L.10k.  Not .ppli.. -.01.. 001.01 foo.   .te                    o.   01.od   oodbotcol.b..Ol...ott.e
q-tteeue  10 foOd Pto.et, ....          04- 10.00  i. di.trlibti-o  Uleqir-              OEfliOio. 10,r..o C.:ti..  -r  oot co.Wo.hle; 1960. 1970 00
aleo   .0.000td ky 0A0 boed 00 phy.ioloeiol rA.ed  for -011 0000-                 D1970i 0.10.
oity oo  khlith  ..r. itide.  a,ri.t-t1  t-p-t-or.  body oeiohtN    4                   o9~~pya)-00.                 lb.o 1000   erte    f totol lbhr fool..
ad todIOia b,tiot of ppelatir..0-,            lv    10 ptr...t  forot..                401511iT         A9001     LA- 16     for.f o.0 . -freto,   -10010  .04
hoo... hld it-o; 1961-65, 1970, AM4 1977 000..                                            fi.hiI .. pertototgo of tote1 leb- f000.; 1960. 1970 A04 19748 dOt..
P"r 000;11111100 Yol ofI_t (o..a     d.,   - Prrtelo coot-  01 PtO 0p10.                  lodetry  pb-ARtoo   - Lbo,o foot IouO1.o   -ootOoll, o.of_.oror2
o.t eop~~~~ply offo   e   ..01.pl   f food L. Wel..0 00, oku . 0-                    eeloiyitr.4                .      oaeeof011lkr0 ;19.
quir    t.01   000 eli  -eoi..     . 11bl.hed by USIA pr-vd. 10f.1l                       1970 1a 178   o.
oll0Ooe o  90er.ho   0.   011    .   o   o   000    foto   0                      lotli.o    tolt,_ ...rctt   _ t.tel. _l. 0  f 1   - Portioip.t1o   o
Polo.protle,  f .b Ok 10  hr..eold bt -i.el pot-lO.   heo0.-                        cloyottr.opOde  1.1.  l,a    .1   eo     r.o
::0. or.  Aot    Ak. Ab.  of 75 era. of toto p,,,,Id   ..y 2AO i000 t1b   Tid             P.rc-     .. of otetl. 0.1. at fa-i. p00.11.ti   of o1iot AS.0poie
abel pottlooto.ooo0     .fo  A1 ..ord   0100   yFI I   6   k                      1960, 1970. .04 1975 00t..  Tmoo. *00 51.0. p..  iiptlt  ro.te  . oefltll
0010Food S.rly  11-65, 190 .d4 19741..e.   OOrr  ftepololo   0    0910    rt ,t  01
00  010ortld      0.0  00.10  ad00.y-  ro 19t61y  0  oo  A                                a         00.          LI10.1ta..
010    0 .i010. ._04      _i. . 1   r  .   e;1011,17   0   974.0                  o bloeoo 1.11-  010  f                      dploI-, ati-  15 d.0  A5 f04 0t
P-  00   -   ae.t   61001  Oki  pat -00 -1;to   .0.0 pvl, fpi                       .- 0000-
tne. dtl deri,e   Iod li.         ioka 1960  197  004 96- 1977 70..                   oea19771d.1180            .-I
00000;16, 1970 oo-  1978 do..l;16,17                   97dt.I MDS DTO
1,10.00  tor%ll,--00.(lb 16e.a) -Aeagh  0t. ok10 oot   -d.E0r0y110    0,017 1810icort
ofil, Rpor160.04hr  kryo                                                                   fotu ied hbol to to.O    00           e       2108   -tr 1 1.d        t r.  404 p-01-
to. 00O~00   o.  rtce E.              .hoA.,t epl e..Eoxti-td 01.                      11.0    bololIt* Po-ty 1         - ,00 . L  00 (  00 coitol -  rht 0     -o.1
dort  .. to .pd*dprorootprt0IkdyInfO ,tt.4001-  ta    f potol.0lro  (orka d04 n.1) t.f0at-L L600    oL.
of --eoo.c0   t00dfoe0..oo.0y00.rb0oeoeP1. A   -0  tht.. A                 f pl,.11i   __011,1980                                                              :7t      t
citpoOio tO   101.  00001' 10..R.l                                                                   P-yiM 11-1    U,"                       til    4



- 28 -
fC0IC INDICATORS                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4
ftslatian:       122.9       (mid-1979)
" P-r Capita: USSl,67   (1979)
Aeount                         A-erage An.ual II-rea. (.)                     Share of GOP at Market Pricin (%.
Indicator                                         (eillion US$ current)                    (at constant 1970 pricnm)                            (at current orice.)
1979                         1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                 1965      1970     1975      1979
Mational Accouare
Cr0.. domeetic product-/                               206,043                           7.7         10.6          5.8                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                           19,462                           1.9          5.7         4.3                    13.2      8.2       8.7      9.5
Ind..try                                              65,583                           9.2        11.6          6.1                    27.1     29.1      32.6     31.8
Service.                                              87,636                           8.0        10.7          5.8                   42.9      43.0      41.3     42.5
Con.u.Prios                                            163,739                           7.7          9.8         6.1                    75.9     76.9      78.6      79.5
Grn..  inve-tnenc                                       46,530                           9.4         14.6         4.6                    22.0     23.5      25.4     22.6
Iport. of goods and NFS                                 15,245                           8.2        11.2          6.2                     7.4      6.6       7.4       7.4
I ports of good. and NrS                                19,471                          14.5        17.2          1.5                     5.3      7.0      11.4      9.5
Coe-. do-esti  savings                                  42,304                           7.9         12.9          6.1                   24.1     23.1      21.4     20.5
Amount                         Averag  Annu-l Incresse (S)                    Composition of Merchandise Trade (-.)
(million US$ current)                    (ar constant 1970 prices)                            (at current prices)
1979                         1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                  1966      1970     1975      1980b2
Macch.adi.e Trade
Merchandise e-portt                                    15,244                           7.8        11.5          6.5                    100.0    10O.0    100.0    100.0
Primsry                                               6,631                          7.3          8.5         -6.8                    82.9      75.1     61.8      57.9
M nufactures                                          8,613                           7.9        12.2          8.3                     17.1     24.9      38.2     42.1
Matehahdlne imports                                    17,961                          10.0        13.6          8.3                    10.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                    965                         -3.8          5.3         24.9                    11.5       4.5      3.0       6.5
Petroleum                                             6,698                          9.3         14.1          8.3                    14.7      11.2     24.5      52.1
Machinery and equipment                               2,242                         22.1         16.8        -15.9                    15.2      21.2      14.0     16,6
Other                                                 8,036                          8.3         12.6         13.5                    58.6      63.1      58.5     24,8
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979
Prices and Tern.  of Trde
GDP deflator (1970-100)                                289.6     410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6
Onchonge rate (Cr$/U05)                                  8.1      10.6       14.1       18.0      26.8
Import price inde. (1970-100)                          189.0     218.0      266.0      238.1     262.3
I.port price i.d.. (1970-100)                          221.0     227.0      236.0      241.9     295.0
Terms of trade ind-n (1970-100)                         85.5       96.0     112.7       98.6      88.6
As 7. of GDP
(at currant pricaa)
1970      1975       1978
Public Finance (Treasury I.adamt)
Current revenue                                                   16.6      19.8       20.4
Current e-penditnre                                              14.4       15.8       18.6
Surpln  (+) or deficit (-)                                       2.2        4.0        1.8
Capital enpeaditsr.                                               2.6        3.8        3.9
Finnci.sg (net)                                                    0.4      -0.2        2.1
1965-70     1970-75      1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (2)                                                           7.7         10.7          5.8
CUP par capita grovth rte (2.)                                                4.6          7.7          3.0
Fnergy con.-pri-on grasth eats (7.)                                           7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                          2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal sevingn rate                                                        20.5         25.7         22.7
Import elasticity                                                             2.2          1.6         0.3
s/ At -trk.t prices; component. are net demetic products slpre..ed at factor coat and
will not add doe to eaclusios of depreciation md indirect taes less subidies.
b/ lEtimate
April 25, 1980



- 29
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXT9RNJ.L CAPITAL AND DEBT                                             Page 5
(dillon. M  at c'cot prIce,)
PPocA-io,:         12.2.q million  (taid.1979)
GNP Pe- Capitta U$41,687 (1979)
ACTUAL -PROJECTED
1970          1975           1976          1977           1978          19791'         1980           1981          1982           1983           1964,
N-c  xpe-t, of good. ..d  -eci...                        -583         -6,702        -6,018         .4,097        .5,999         -97,774       -10,753        -11,550        -11,539        -11,454       -10,530
Export. of good.                                     (2,739)       (8,670)       (10,128)       (12,120)      (12,659)       (15.244)       (20,190)      (25,076)        (29,84,4)      (35,491)      (42,343)
eporte of good.                                      (2,507)      (12,210)       (12.383)      (12,023)       (13,683)       (17,961)       (21,726)      (26.425)        (30,030)      (34,277)       (38,933)
Net tran..fe-                                              21              2              1           -               72            17             30             40              50            50             50
OCoret at.... t balnce                                   -562         -6,700        -6,317         -4,037        -3,927         -9,757        -10,723       -20,510         -11,489        -11,404       -10,4800
Di-et Privat. i-ev.t.oet                                   92            892            959           810            906         2.200          1.176          1,747          1,996          2,259          2,850
M41T 1-0..ot                                              767         3,760          5.023         4,631         8,819          4,995          7,829         122' 1 2       11.910         12,223         11,700
T-aditi-Ia .oorc                                       (833)        (1,408)       (2.052)        (2,668)       (2,793)        (2.730)        (2,881)        (3,338)        (4.148)        (4,6207       (5,164)
Fitnantll cr-dit.                                      (434)       (4,524)        (5,988)        (6,118)      (11.312)        (8,808)       (11,930)    I(16,123)         (16.162)       (16,839)      (18,081)
Ao-ti..tion                                           (-632)      (-2,172)       (-3.009)       (-4,135)      (-5,286)       (-6.3551)      (-6.982)      (-7,449)        (-8.400)       (-9,236)     (-11.345)
B-ielig loan          .. ebod (get)                      -              .197           -248          -267          -338           -596           -792        -1,096          -1,434         -1,890        -2.477
Other ..ptil  n.1 .  .                                     248         1,295         2.127           -527           440            -61           -              -               -             -              -
Chane S   reere                                          -345            950        -2,344           -630        -3,880          3,219          2.500         -1,353            -983        -1,188         -1,293
Int_r.tat._jo          __4rva1                          1,142          3,980         6.488          7,192        11,826          8,966          6.466          7,819          8,802          9,990         11,203
R...r-.e .. .onthe of fxport _51                             0.5           3.9            6.3           7.2           10,4            6.0           3.6            3.6             3.5            3.5           3.5
AICTUAL
1974          1975           1976          3977           1978          1979
Gre.. Di.bo--ten
T.t.1 grace dteb-r-ct of M&LT I....                                    7,254         5,932          8.032         8,766         14,105        11,546-6/
Pablit .od  peblitly  goareet.d                                     2,937          3,731         4.624          4,620         10.356
Official cap-t or-dit.                                              408            396           388            167            413
I8R0                                                                247            250           173            299            275
Othe .cllaen                                                        139            119            111            92            136
Pclv-ta  oa                                                       2,143          2,966         3,972          4.062         9,532
Private .-g-goreted                                                  4,317         2,201          3,486         6,148          3,749
External Debt
Total debt ..t.tadi.g aed diebur-d                                    17,576         21,920        26,964        32.224         43,174        49,9041
PoblI ic.d  peblicly  goacat.ted                                     9,394        12,328         15,851        19.218         27.223
Official ...rr                                                    3,276          3,854         4,320          4.612          5.229
188.0                                                            (871)        (1.093)       (1,217)        (1,413)       73,615)
Othec                                                          (2,403)        (2.761)       (3,123)        (3,199)       (3,614)
Private  oec                                                      6,118          8,474        11,531         14.606        21,994
privte go-9--t-rcd                                                  8,182          9,592        11.133         13,006         13,951
Undi.b-read debt (pbllEn only)                                         2,524          2,380         3,446         4,004          4,535
Debt Serice
Tot.l debt  -ert- py5.t.ct                                             3,290)        4,035)         3.100)        6,597          8,628        11,812
Interest (gene.)                                                   (1,370)        (1.863)        (2.091)       (2,462)        (3,342)       (5,261)
Pc1,xen-  an 1f ftp-cts & "S                                              38.a          43.0           47.2           51.4          66.1           72,6
Paye..cta an T    GNClP                                                    3.3            3.3           3,6            4.1           4.7            3.9
Acerag   1ncer.~ cot  on te  loan  (3                             98.6            9.0    -      8.0            8.39.
Officia   cain                                                          7.0            7.8           7.9            8.0            7.7
Averge%-t-~ity of ne          -  1cn                                       0.9            8,7          10.2           10,1           10.1
Offita   corc                                                           14.6          18,4           16.3           16.6          14.1
Privateoec                                                               9.7            5.8           7.0            9.0           9.6
IEiD En--or
IBIS DOD/total DOD (7.)                                                     5.0           5.0           4.5            4.4            3.7           3.6
018R1 diab-ra.xt.lt.t.1 gRoc  di.hore--te(.)                                3.4           3.6            2.2 .         3.5            1.7           2.6
EUlD debt  devrettn   ibt corIce (                                         2.4            2.5           3.)            4.0            2.8           2.0
A. % f1 total debt Ontetendi.g
at cd of J...c 1979
Debt Str-tcr
98at-ity t-ct-r  of debt .at.ttodiog
Mato-itie  de tihin S y-ar                                                                                   66.3
91.t   itedoe vithi. 18 pe-c                                                                                 92.6
I/  Entit.xt.
21  E-lodlng r-ieveetd profit,.
31Encoding dollar vxaatiooadjaetnete.
41Eacloding gold, and inclding do11-  -lcatioc odc-t ...ttc
5/  G.od. enly.
O-tber 20, 1980



- 30 - -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of August 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-seven loans fully disbursed                                 1,552.1
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0           3.7
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement       6.7           0.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0          12.0
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        42.3           9.0
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          22.6
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5          12.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0          16.3
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          24.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          37.3
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          45.3
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0          10.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          22.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             9.7
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          45.6
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0          26.3
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           50.0           0.5
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power                46.5           3.0
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0          12.9
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          16.6
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0          17.3
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          33.4
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            17.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          42.1
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            55.0           6.1
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          26.5
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            13.6
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0          98.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            21.5
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         123.4
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0         104.8
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          58.5
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          72.3
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0            93.8



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of August 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0            33.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0             90.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              98.8
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0        -77.4
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0            25.1
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power                109.0         109.0
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0            38.6
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation            28.0          27.7
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads                110.0         110.0
1822 /1 1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823 /2 1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power                114.0         114.0
1839 /1 1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           139.0         139.0
1867 /1 1980  Brazil                          Education             32.0          32.0
1877 /1 1980  Brazil                          Rural Development   63.0           63.0
1895 /1 1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                125.0         125.0
Total                                              5,283.1 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 660.7
Total now outstanding                              4,622.4
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            43.9             1.9
Total now held by Bank                             4,620.5
Total undisbursed                                                2,643.3
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Became effective October 8, 1980.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
Page 3
-32 -
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Year                                                                                                        Loans    Equity    Total
1957               slown  do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                        Electrical Equipment        2.00       -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper              1.20       -         1.20
1958               D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                         Automotive Parts             0.45       -        0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                            Motor Vehicles               2.45      -         2.45
Industria e Comercio
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cinento Portland, S. A.                 Cement                      1.20       -        1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S. A.                                     Pulp                        4.00      -         4.00
1966/1968/1972    AcGs Villares, S. A.                                          Steel                       8.00     1.93       9.93
1966/1969          Papal a Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                         Pulp and Paper               3.78     3.41       7.19
1967/1972          Ultrefertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                    Fertilizers                 8.22     3.03      11.25
de Fertilizantes
1969               Petroquimica Unio, S. A.                                    Petrochemicals              5.50     2.88       8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                    Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88       8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S. A. Industria a Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60     1.44       6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                         4.90      -         4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14      3.20      32.34
1977/1981          Compaahia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.97    11.30       88.27
1973               Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                     Capital Market               5.00      -         5.00
Development
1973/1978          Espresa de Desenvolvimento ds Recursos                      Nickel Mining and           85.00     8.34      93.34
Minerais - CODISIN, S. A.                                   Refining
1974               Industrias Villares, S. A.                                   Elevators and               6.00      -         6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fabrics de Tecidos Ttuape. S. A.                            Textiles                   31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                 6.18     1.19       7.37
1975               Oxitmno Nordaste, S. A.                                     Petrochemicals              10.00      -        10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.              Taxtiles                    6.45      1.00       7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste              Textiles                    16.20      -        16.20
1977               FH  S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum          20.00      -        20.00
Castings
1977               Hineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                Mining                      15.00      -        15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                     Iron end Steel              7.0     3.0        10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                    Motor Vehicles              60.00    5.00       65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malbas                           Ready-made Garments          2.00     -          2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,                   Palm-oil                    3.50    1.00        4.50
Industria a Comercio de Oelaginosas
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                   Iron and Steel              5.00     -          5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                  Chemicals and              15.00    2.00       17.00
Petrochemicals
1980               Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                    Chemicals and                -      0.25        0.25
Petrochemicals
1980               Sotave Amazonia Quiica e Mineral S/A                         Fertilizers                16.00    4.00       20.00
1980               Polisul Petroquimica                                         Chemicals and              15.00    5.00       20.00
Petrochemicals
Total Gross Comitments                                                                482.24   60.85       543.09
Less Cancellations, Terminations. Repayments and Sales                                327,15    8.52       335.67
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                     155.09   52,33       207.42
Total Undiabursed                                                                     137.39   15.61       153.0u



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of August 31, 1980, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is being covered by additional
allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
Since the Bank can accept disbursement applications up to a period
of 3 months after the closing date, and since the Borrower expects
that the undisbursed balance will be exhausted before December 31,
1980, it was agreed that no further extension of the closing date
would be necessary.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken much longer than expected
to complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles from the state to COLONE, the executing agency,
and subsequently to settlers. However, the first 883 land titles
were issued to settlers during October 1980. Cost overruns presently
amount to about 240% of appraisal estimate.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of Augupt 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Comimitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result-of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower will be permitted to draw down until December 31,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Government
proposals to expand the project content in light of cost savings
accrued during execution are currently being reviewed by the Bank.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to carry out its investment program
effectively.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector.
Substantial changes were made resulting in better management and
control of the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified. Following reformulation of the
project description to reflect the current situation, the Closing
Date was postponed to December 30, 1983 to allow the Borrower
adequate time to complete the project and to draw down the loan.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of major contracts, some recently
signed by CODEVASF, others in the process of being awarded,
should result in accelerated and more regular disbursements in
the period ahead. The Bank has agreed to a CODEVASF proposal
to replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of several flood plain areas which suffered
heavily from floods in 1979. Land acquisition has been carried
out in all flood plains but one, which is planned to be expro-
priated in 1981. Negotiations are continuing between CODEVASF
and CHESF to enable discharges from the Sobradinho dam to be
programmed so as not to hamper construction work in the Lower
Sao Francisco area.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway ProJect (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. FEPASA's operations
continue to improve. Freight traffic has increased 42% during the
first six months of 1980 compared with a similar period in 1979.
The railway has reduced its operating cost by 20% in the past
year due to reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
FEPASA's financial position, however, continues to remain weak
because of its high debt service. FEPASA and the Sao Paulo state
government are preparing investment and financial plans to put
FEPASA on a sound financial footing. The Bank is monitoring this
process closely.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage,
support to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and
inland fisheries. Serious droughts in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with delays in the release of funds, have slowed down the imple-
mentation of Phase II. The closing date for this loan was post-
poned to September 30, 1982 to coincide with the Phase II
schedule.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-projects involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in one state, Goias. Construction
is underway in five additional states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, Mato
Grosso do Sul, Paraiba and Alogoas. Twenty percent of the physical
work foreseen under the project, about 1,100 kms, is now completed.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Progress in project implementation was steady
during the first half of 1980. However, several restrictions
placed on hiring of new staff, including local consultants, import
restrictions and reductions in the number of staff participating
in either long- or short-term training programs were all made
effective during mid-June 1980. These controls which have been
instituted as part of the government's economic stabilization
program are adversely affecting the implementation of this
project. Required corrective measures are being discussed with
the Government, and it is expected that the project would shortly
be exempted from these restrictions.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. An amount of US$5.5 million
of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of the
Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related expendi-
tures. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to October 31,
1980 to allow for delays in delivery for some items of equipment.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.  Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, postponement of the
Closing Date to December 31, 1981 is being considered because
of lagging disbursements. The agreed targets for connection
of low income households have been widely exceeded. Substantial
improvements in the management of the project companies have been
achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control and planning
of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Improvements in the implementation of
certain components observed since mid-1979 have generally been
maintained, but other areas (nutrition research, policy studies,
and training) continue to fall short of expectations. A Bank
mission recently appraised reformulation of the project and is
preparing recommendations designed to reallocate funds to com-
ponents which are better placed to utilize them effectively.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976: Effective Date:  March 25, 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates and Government's policy of prefixing
monetary correction unrelated to the actual inflation rate have>.-so
far rendered the balance of this loan unusable on the conditions set
out in the Loan Agreement. The Government has recently expressed
the intention to follow a revised monetary correction system where
the level of indexing would more nearly reflect the level of (nfla-
tion and which will be more in line with the conditions of the Loan
Agreement. Discussions are underway with the Government on ways in
which new commitments under the loan might proceed.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 80% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing close to appraisal forecast.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project.  US$42.0 million loan.of
February 23. 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of impotted
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months.  Commercial production is now expected to begin' in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977: Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 30, 1981. The project has been physically completed,,.and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to March 30, 1981 to allow for successful
completion of trial runs before final payments can be made on
certain equipment and service contracts.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31 1982.
Construction of certain training centers is proceeding well, but
the hotel training component continues to encounter implementation
difficulties.  In view of expected cost savings, the Bank is
presently processing amendments to the Legal documents to reallocate
funds within the SENAI, SENAC, and SENAR component to accomplish
more than originally planned.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for the
first group of 450 farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortage of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  AtS$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date:  August 7, 1978;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1984.  Physical execution of the'
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed in
accordance with the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September-30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the last 18 months, the situation has
recently begun to show signs of marked improvement. Project admin-
istration has been reorganized, agricultural services are being
emphasized, and slow-starting components, such as land titling,
are beginning to show some initial results.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding Part A of the project (CEMIG) the
last supervision mission found that delay in project execution
was now also due to financial difficulties which originated in
low tariff levels that gave CEMIG a 7.9% rate of return on remu-
nerable investment instead of the minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian
legislation. All the available funds were channelled to the Emborcacao
hydro project which is considered CEMIG's first priority in the
construction program and current expectations are for a 2-year
delay in project completion. Parts B and C (CELESC and ESCELSA)
have similar problems, and project completion is expected to be
delayed two years.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978:
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, followships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Although import restrictions are expected
to have an effect, the incremental staffing controls do not apply
at the state level where project recruiting is mainly operative.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After promising first year results, particularly in agricultural
extension and credit, project activities were seriously disrupted
in mid-1979 with a change in the state government and subsequent
dismissal of numerous project-funded staff. Restaffing has now
been practically completed, and improved support of the Project
Unit by the state government has increased its authority and
effectiveness. However, several components including the land
purchase component are still in the early stages of implementation.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets. An action plan has been agreed to seek
solutions to very slow implementation of the colonization com-
ponent.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds and in the development of a strong project
coordination unit. Implementation is, however, now underway for
most components.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The recent reor-
ganization of the CODEVASF regional directorate has placed a
young, competent team in charge of protection, irrigation and
drainage works. There is a continuing need, however, to strengthen
CODEVASF's capacity to supervise assistance provided by various
state and federal agencies, and to follow-up on the implementation
of the rice drying, storage and processing component.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Sub-projects have been approved which will benefit two states
in the Northeast, Pernambuco and Ceara. Eighteen other sub-project
applications have been received by the National Development Bank
(BNDE). The feasibility studies for six of these sub-projects
are at an advanced stage of preparation.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 Million Loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   Approximately 9 months
(from April 1979 to January 1980)
(b)  Project prepared by:                CEPA-CE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  November 1978
(d) First Bank mission to
consider the project:               April 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations:         September 5, 1980
(f) Planned deadline for
effectiveness:                      April 1, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Signing of agreements satisfactory to the Bank between the state
and the agencies participating in the following areas, would be
a condition of disbursement for the respective components: land
cadastral surveys, titling and purchase; agricultural cooperatives;
education and vocational training; health and sanitation;
marketing activities; and small-scale enterprises (paras. 64, 81).
(b) A field study to select the 12 cooperatives to be included in the
project would be completed and provided to the Bank by April 1,
1981 (para. 48).
(c) The state would assure, through local banks, adequate credit for
the small-scale non-agricultural enterprises (para. 49).



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) An agreement would be signed between DAER-CE and each municipality
covering a maintenance program for improved roads, before start
of work in respective municipalities. Studies of road improvements
would be provided by December 31, 1981 and December 31, 1982; and
the improvements carried out by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1984,
respectively. A five-year plan for advancing funds to and recu-
perating them from municipalities for road maintenance would be
furnished by April 1, 1981 (para. 50).
(e) Farmer groups would be established and accept financial responsi-
bility for each irrigation system prior to initiation of detailed
engineering assistance. A preliminary analysis would be provided
to the Bank for any system costing more than US$100,000 (para. 51).
(f) Prior to construction of wholesale marketing facilities satisfactory
details of location and construction plans would be provided to the
Bank (para. 52).
(g) School site plans and the justification for school locations
would be submitted to the Bank, prior to construction, by
September 30 each year. The state would sign an agreement with
each project municipality, prior to starting education component
activities in the municipality, providing that the municipality
would present to its legislature, by December 31, 1983, a bill
to establish a teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magisterio) (para. 54).
(h) Prior to construction of rural water systems, communities would form
health societies to assume the financial burden of operating and
maintaining the systems (para. 57).
(i) The Federal Government would ensure the annual availability of
adequate incremental rural credit for an estimated 36,000 small-
farmer project beneficiaries. A Credit Statistics and Monitoring
System would be established within the PCMU by June 30, 1981
(para. 58).
(j) The PCMU would prepare a mid-project evaluation by June 30, 1983
and a full evaluation within six months after the Closing Date.
The PCMU would furnish monitoring, data analysis and farm survey
plans by April 1, 1981 (para. 61).
(k) The proposed annual project operating plan for the following year
would be provided to the Bank by September 30 each year for comment,
and the Bank would be advised of the final approved plan by the
start of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year (April 1) (para. 62).
(l) The state would ensure the compatibility and coordination of all
rural development activities in the project area, with appropriate
support from the Federal Government (para. 63).



:   4i-  0                  :.      4O                                   39                                 .
BRAZIL                                                   .
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  
SOILS AND RAINFALL
< / SU l A d L . 'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R FJR5   AN Z  NI U L 151 
A70   '         NING NIT BO DA E
fORTAtE.........Z.......,AL   W      THEADS
}g ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      o ON
o 2s so 7s 100 .,, .... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIE5 BETWEENS CEARA AND PlAUi
07                                  40                        zo .Sp/2.eo 397Q                                             



