OF=FICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 1924 BR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Ceart Second Rural Development Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   -Ja-- xi          I         , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1924 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  JC-Yl r-0V   /4         , 1981, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "State" means the State of Ceard.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(c) "POLONORDESTE" means the special development program for
the Northeast of Brazil established pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 74794, dated October 30, 1974, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(d) "CAGECE" means Companhia de Agua e Esgoto do Cearl,
the State's Water and Sanitation Company.
(e) "CEAG-CE" means Centro de Apoio a Peguena e Media
Empresa, the Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
in the State.
(f) "CEPA-CE" means Comiss9o Estadual de Planejamento
Agricola, the State's Agricultural Planning Commission.


﻿-2-
(g) "COBAL" means Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos, the
Brazilian Food Company.
(h) "CODAGRO" means Companhia Cearense de Desenvolvimento
Agropecuario, the State's Agricultural Development Company.
(i) "CRH/SEPLAN-CE" means Coordenadoria de Recursos
Hidricos, the Hydraulic Resources Coordination Unit within
SEPLAN-CE (defined below).
(J) "DAER-CE" means Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de
Rodagem, the State's Highway Department.
(k) "DERE" means Delegacia de Educaqfo Regional, a Regional
Education Office of the SE (defined below).
(1) "EMATERCE" means Empresa de Assist6ncia T6cnica e
Extenslo Rural-Cearg, the State's Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company.
(m) "EMBRAPA" means Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria, the Borrower's Agricultural Research Company.
(n) "EMBRATER" means Empresa Brasileira de Assistefcia e
Extenslo Rural, the Borrower's Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company.
(o) "EPACE" means Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceard,
the State's Agricultural Research Company.
(p) "FSESP" means Fundarffo Servigos de Saude Publica,
the Foundation for Public Health Services.
(q) "FUNSESCE" means Fundaggo dos Serviros Sociais do
Estado do Cearf, the State Foundation for Social Services.
(r) "INCRA" means Instituto Nacional de Colonizarlo e
Reforma Agraria, the National Institute for Colonization and
Agrarian Reform.
(s) "ITERCE" means Instituto de Terras do Ceard, the State's
Land Institute.
(t) "OCEC" means Organiza,Io das Cooperativas do Estado
do Cearg, the State's Cooperative Society Organization.


﻿-3-
(u) "ONE" means Orglo Municipal de Educarlo, a Municipal
Education Office.
(v) "SAAb" means Secreteria da Agricultura e Abastecimento,
the Secretariat for Agriculture and Supply.
(w) "SE" means Secretaria de Educargo, the State's
Secretariat for Education.
(x) "SEPLAN-CE" means Secretaria de Planejamento e
CoordenaQgo-Cearg, the State's Secretariat of Planning and
Coordination.
(y) "SS" means Secretaria de Saude, the State's Secretariat
of Health.
(z) "SOEC" means Superintend9ncia de Obras do Estado do
Cearg, the State's Superintendency of Works.
(aa) "SUDEC" means Superintend9ncia de Desenvolvimento do
Estado do Cearg, the State Development Superintendency.
(bb) "SUDENE" means the Superint6ndencia de Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste, the Northeast Development Superintendency.
(cc) "PCMU" means the Project Coordination and Management
Unit (Coordenadoria de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado-CDRI)
established in CEPA-CE.
(dd) "RPU" means Regional Planning Unit (Unidade Espacial de
Planejamento-UEP).
(ee) "Project Area" means the eight RPU's into which the
State is subdivided, namely, Ibiapaba, Baturite, Cariri, Sertbes
Cearenses, Sert3es de Quixeramobim e Medio Jaguaribe, Sertaes
de Inhamums e Salgado, Litoral and Baixo Jaguaribe.
(ff) "Municipality" means any municipality in the territory
of the State which is a party to an agreement with the State for
purposes of carrying out activities under Parts B (1) and C (1) of
the Project.
(gg) "Executing Entity" means any of the executing entities
listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(hh) "MVR" means Maior Valor de Referencia, the monetary
correction factor established and periodically adjusted by the
Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 6205, dated April 29,
1975, and the Borrower's Decree No. 75704, dated May 8, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the
Executing Entities to carry out the Project, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) upon receipt from the State of the annual plan of
operations for the Project, referred to in Section 2.05 of the
Project Agreement, initiate the review of such plan and afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such plan; and
(b) furnish to the Bank, promptly after its approval, but
not later than the beginning of the applicable POLONORDESTE fiscal
year, the plan of operations referred to in paragraph (a) above,
as approved.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause
to be insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable, or cause to be enabled, the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, but not limited
to, quarterly reports on the progress made in the carrying out of
the Project, such quarterly reports to be furnished promptly upon
their preparation but in any event not later than three months
after the end of each quarter of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1983,
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank a report on the
evaluation of the first thirty months of Project execution of
such scope and in such detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree; and (ii) promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the performance
by the Bank and the State of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Bank agree that access
to rural credit for Project beneficiaries is essential to the
successful carrying out of the Project. To this end, the Borrower
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the annual availability
of adequate incremental funds for an estimated 36,000 small-farmer
Project beneficiaries required for:
(a) seasonal crop credit for such items as labor and inputs
for production of annual and permanent crops; and
(b) crop-related investment credit for such items as land
clearing, establishment of permanent crops, on-farm development
and irrigation schemes.
Section 4.02. Without in any way lImiting the generality of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement or any of its obligations under
this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed,
funds required to maintain, as appropriate, the rural development
activities complementary to the Project which are being carried
out in the State as of the datu of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall undertake such efforts as
are necessary on its part to assist the State in carrying out
its responsibilities under Section 2.01 (b) of the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Executing Entities to maintain separate
accounts adequate to reflect therein, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, their
respective operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, including separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures;
and
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the accounts
referred to in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement to be audited
annually, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank, through the PCMU, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year, (i) certified copies of the
accounts referred to in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement for
such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures referred to in Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement
as to: (A) whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures have
been used to make payments for goods received, or works or
services performed; and (B) whether such goods, works and services
were eligible for financing under the Loan Agreement and were used
in the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts referred to in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the facilities included in the Project to be
efficiently operated and maintained, and the services to be
furnished thereunder to be provided promptly as needed, all in
conformity with appropriate practices and by competent personnel
in adequate numbers; and
(b) provide, or cause to be provided, as and when needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
purposes of (a) above.
Section 4.07. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of


﻿-9-
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign cchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the State shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the State under the Project Agreement;
and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the agreements referred to in Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement shall have been materially changed without the
concurrence of the Borrower and the Bank, or any of the parties
thereto shall have failed to perform any of its respective
obligations or covenants thereunder; provided, however, that
in the event of any such change or failure with respect to the
agreements referred to in Sections 2.07 (b) and 2.09 (c) of the
Project Agreement, the suspension of the right to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall be limited to the undisbursed portion
of the Loan allocated under Section 2.02 of this Agreement to
Parts B (1) and C (1) of the Project, respectively, for expendi-
tures in the Municipality concerned;
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and to the State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents, and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, the State, their political


﻿- 11 -
subdivisions or agencies, or any agency of such political subdivi-
sions, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the
State to perform all of their respective obligations pursuant to
this Agreement and the Project Agreement, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date /   /      ; )  , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section p2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios-Bloco 5, 50 Andar
70000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFAZ                            611142 M FAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil                   611506 PG F N BR
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Diretoria de Cr6dito Rural
Edificio Sede do Banco Central
do Brasil, 40 Andar
Setor de Autarquias Sul
70000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /lC1;c           4-- 3 \ -
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods and services            10,310,000       55%
for Part A (1) of
the Project (Rural
extension)
(2) Goods and services              780,000        55%
for Part A (2)
of the Project
(Agricultural
experimentation)
(3) Goods and services             6,355,000       55%
for Part A (3) (a),
(b) and (d) of the
Project (Cadastral
and land surveys,
land titling, and
settlement coordi-
nation, but excluding
land purchase)
(4) Goods and services for          605,000        55%
Part A (4) of the Pro-
ject (Agricultural
cooperative society
development)
(5) Goods and services for        2,790,000        55%
Part B (1) of the Pro-
ject (Education and
vocational training)


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Goods and services             2,005,000        55%
for Part B (2) of
the Project (Health)
(7) Goods and services             3,155,000        55%
for Part B (3) of the
Project (Sanitation)
(8) Goods and services            13,140,000        55%
for Part C (1) of
the Project (Feeder
and access roads)
(9) Goods and services               540,000        55%
for Part C (2) of the
Project (Small-scale
irrigation systems)
(10) Goods and services              960,000        55%
for Part C (3) of the
Project (Marketing
activities)
(11) Goods and services              535,000        75%
for Part D of the
Project (Small-scale
non-agricultural
enterprises)
(12) Goods and services            4,300,000        55%
for Part E of the
Project (Project
coordination and
management)
(13) Unallocated                  10,525,000
TOTAL     56,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on   account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1980;
(b) without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraphs
(c) and (d) below, expenditures for each of the components
included in Parts A (3), A (4), B, C (3) and D of the Project,
until an agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been concluded
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement with the Executing Entity responsible for the carrying
out of any such component;
(c) expenditures for the construction of any school or
education center under Part B (1) (a) of the Project until the
Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the site required
for any such school or education center has been acquired; and
(d) expenditures for the establishment of any marketing
warehouse under Part C (3) of the Project until the Bank has
received satisfactory evidence that the site required for the
respective activity has been acquired.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated


﻿- 16 -
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   The Bank shall disburse for expenditures under each Category
at the percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above
through June 30, 1983, and thereafter at a percentage of expendi-
tures to result in a disbursement percentage of thirty-six percent
(36%) of all expenditures under each Category.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's special development
program .for the Northeast of Brazil (POLONORDESTE) and consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:  Agricultural Services
(1) Rural Extension
Strengthening and expansion of EMATER-CE by increasing
the number of field offices to about 130 and the rural
extension staff serving small farmers to about 330
agricultural technicians and about 165 social exten-
sionists, adaptation of the structure and methodology of
State extension services to small farmers, training
of rural extensionists, instruction of farmers through
short courses, development of a statewide specialization
of functions within the rural extension service and
promotion of new production technologies.
(2) Agricultural Experimentation
Execution of an agricultural research and experimenta-
tion program for the State's proposed agricultural
development plan, with emphasis on testing and adapting
of improved farm techniques for individual crops and
trees and for different farming systems with inter-
cropping, assisting the rural extension service in
planning and execution of demonstration fields; and
production of high quality saplings to be supplied to
Project beneficiaries.
(3) Cadastral and Land Surveys, Land Titling and Land
Purchase
(a) Strengthening and expansion of ITERCE and the
execution by ITERCE of cadastral surveys with
respect to about 300,000 ha of public lands in the
State;
(b) Provision of land title services to about 6,550
farmers who each occupy less than 100 ha;


﻿- 18 -
(c) Purchase of about 100,000 ha by INCRA, in
collaboration with ITERCE, and settlement on such
lands of about 3,700 landless farmers or very
small owners; and
(d) Establishment for this purpose of a settlement
coordination unit in each existing cooperative
society undertaking settlement activities.
(4) Agricultural Cooperative Society Development
Assistance to about 12 agricultural cooperative
societies through:
(a) A field study and preparation of a detailed
development plan during the first year of the
Project;
(b) Improvement of general and financial management of
selected cooperatives and cooperative education of
farmer members of such cooperatives;
(c) Introduction of improved techniques for seed
production, processing and marketing; and
(d) Improvement in produce marketing and common storage
and warehousing facilities.
Part B:   Social Infrastructure
(1) Education and Vocational Training
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 110
new and about 550 remodelled classrooms in rural
primary schools providing for about 7,700 new and
31,500 improved student places in two shifts; about
17 rural education centers with about 34 classrooms
providing for about 2,380 student places in two
shifts; and two DEREs;
(b) Remodelling and equipping of three secondary
agricultural schools providing for about 720
student places;


﻿- 19 -
(c) Provision of canteen equipment for school meals
in about 380 existing schools;
(d) Printing and distribution of about 132,000 student
textbooks, about 319,000 student workbooks and
about 4,000 teacher's manuals;
(e) Acquisition of about 350,000 student learning
packages and about 15,000 teacher instructional
packages;
(f) Training of about 3,000 teachers, about 20
coordinators for rural education centers, about
110 municipal school supervisors, about 110
technical and administrative personnel for Project
activities at the DERE and OME levels, and about
330 rural health education tutors;
(g) Carrying out manpower training surveys and
provision of training courses for artisans and
workers in small-scale non-agricultural
enterprises; and
(h) Identification of constraints in education
management and preparation of proposals to
overcome such constraints.
(2) Health
(a) Construction and equipping of about 200 rural
health posts and three health centers;
(b) Upgrading of about 80 rural health posts and
about 30 health centers;
(c) Training of about 500 rural health attendants,
about 150 midwives and about 180 outreach health
auxiliaries, and organization of public health
seminars for such personnel;
(d) Strengthening and upgrading equipment of the
regional health administration network; and
(e) Identification of constraints in health management
and preparation of proposals to overcome such
constraints.


﻿- 20 -
(3) Sanitation
(a) Design and construction of about 100 rural water
supply systems to provide potable water to about
125,000 persons;
(b) Construction of about 14,000 pit latrines;
(c) Strengthening of State and municipal capacity
to maintain the water systems; and
(d) Training of about 120 village water system
operators.
Part C:   Physical Infrastructure
(1) Feeder and Access Roads
(a) Engineering, design and construction of essential
spot improvements on about 2,250 km of priority
municipal roads;
(b) Purchase and utilization of road maintenance
equipment and spare parts to reinforce DAER-CE's
mechanized maintenance assistance to Munici-
palities;
(c) Assistance in maintenance training and initiation
of the maintenance program; and
(d) Identification and presentation of collector feeder
roads for possible financing by the Borrower's
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico and
Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem.
(2) Small-Scale Irrigation Systems
Preparation of studies on construction of about 80 small
supplementary irrigation systems and supervision of construction,
operation and maintenance of such systems.


﻿- 21 -
(3) Marketing Activities
(a) Expansion of the State's advance crop purchasing
system (Compra Antecipada da ProdurIo) into
several new areas;
(b) Expansion and strengthening of the produce classi-
fication system by the establishment of about
twelve new classification posts and about four
produce analysis centers; and
(c) Expansion and strengthening of the wholesale
marketing system by the construction of about
three central wholesale marketing warehouses to
supply retail outlets in rural areas with competi-
tively-priced foodstuffs and basic consumer goods.
Part D:   Small-Scale Non-Agricultural Enterprises
(1) Equipping and staffing of two regional offices and
four local offices in areas of concentration of small
non-agricultural enterprises; and
(2) Training of field staff to provide assistance to such
enterprises.
Part E:   Project Coordination and Management
(1) Equipping and staffing of, and provision of the
necessary materials and services for, the PCMU; and
(2) Preparation of studies on such topics as soil
conservation, State water balance, produce marketing,
sociological aspects of Project execution; and
preparation and analysis of a baseline agro-economic
survey.
The Project is expected to be completed on June 30, 1985.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1984
through   May 1, 1995                       2,335,000
On November 1, 1995                              2,295,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent: dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.25%


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised.
2.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Civil works for Part C (1) of the Project shall be divided
into lots in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works for Part B of the Project may be carried out by
use of force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification for the first round of bidding
for civil works:
The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts for the first round of bidding:
With respect to all civil works contracts procured in
accordance with Part A hereof for purposes of Parts A (4), B (1)
and C (1) and (3) of the Project:


﻿- 25 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of each contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   With respect to each contract procured in accordance with
Part A hereof and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   The PCMU in CEPA-CE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of this Schedule.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Entities Responsible for
Execution of the Project
Collaborating
Project Component         Executing Entity              Entity
Part A (1): Rural             EMATERCE              EMBRATER
extension
Part A (2):                   EPACE                 EKBRAPA
Agricultural
experimentation
Part A (3):
Cadastral and            ITERCE,
land surveys,            INCRA,
land titling and         CEPA-CE,
purchase                 EKATERCE
Part A (4): Agricul-          OCEC,                 INCRA
tural cooperative       EPACE,
society development      SAAb,
EMATERCE
Part B (1): Education         SE,
and vocational           FUNSESCE,
training                Munici-
palities
Part B (2): Health            SS                    FSESP
Part B (3): Sanitation        SS,
SOEC,
CAGECE
Part C (1): Feeder           DAER-CE,
and access roads        Munici-
palities
Part C (2): Small-            CRH/SEPLAN-CE,
scale irrigation         SOEC,
systems                  SUDEC


﻿- 27 -
Collaborating
Project Component          Executing Entity              Entity
Part C (3): Marketing         SAAb,                  EMATERCE
activities               CODAGRO,
COBAL
Part D: Small-scale           CEAG-CE,
non-agricultural         FUNSESCE
enterprises
Part E: Project               POfU in
coordination             CEPA-CE
and management


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /L      day of        198 L.
FORSECRETARY


