LOAN NUMBER 1924 BR
Project Agreement
(Cearl Second Rural Development Project)
between
STATE OF CEARA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    ,CV          /       , 1981, between the
STATE OF CEARA (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but qnly on condition
that the State agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the State; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) The State covenants and warrants that
the Project is of paramount importance to the rural development
plans of the State and that it shall fully support the Project by
cooperating with the Borrower in the execution of the Project and
by providing, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and


﻿-2-
other resources required on its part for the carrying out of the
Project and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
and services included in the Project.
(b) The State shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
compatibility and coordination of rural development activities in
the Project Area.
Section 2.02. The State shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, in order to
assist:
(a) OCEC, in respect of the activities referred to in Part A
(4) (a) of the Project;
(b) SE, in respect of the activities referred to in Part B
(1) (h) of the Project;
(c) SS, in respect of the activities referred to in Part B
(2) (e) and B (3) of the Project;
(d) DAER-CE, in respect of the activities referred to in
Part C (1) (a), (c) and (d) of the Project;
(e) CRH/SEPLAN-CE, in respect of the activities referred to
in Part C (2) of the Project; and
(f) the PCKU, in respect of the activities referred to in
Part E (2) of the Project.
Section 2.03. The State shall operate and maintain the
PCHU with such responsibilities, authority and staff as shall be
required for coordinating the planhing, execution, evaluation and
monitoring of the Project.
Section 2.04. The State shall enter into and thereafter
maintain agreements satisfactory to the Bank with each of the
Executing Entities as are necessary or appropriate to assure the
efficient and timely carrying out of the part or parts of the
Project for which each such Executing Entity is responsible.
Section 2.05. The State shall, as soon as available, but not
later than September 30 of each year, furnish to SUDENE and
the Bank the proposed plan of operations for Project activities
for the following year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The State shall, not later than March 31, 1981,
furnish to the Bank the cooperative society development plans
included in Part A (4) (a) of the Project.
Section 2.07. The State shall, for purposes of Part B (1) of
the Project:
(a) not later than September 30 of each year, furnish to
the Bank for approval the site plans for the schools and rural
education centers to be constructed under Part B (1) (a) of the
Project in the following year, together with the justification
for the location; and
(b) prior to the initiation within the territory of
jurisdiction of any Municipality of any of the activities under
Part B (1) of the Project, enter into an agreement with such
Municipality for the carrying out of activities under such Part B
(1), such agreement to provide, inter alia, that not later
than December 31, 1983, such Municipality shall submit to its
respective legislative body for approval a bill to establish a
teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magist6rio) to define teachers'
rights and duties, privileges and obligations.
Section 2.08. The State shall, for purposes of Part B (3) of
the Project:
(a) not later than September 30 of each year, furnish to the
Bank for review the pre-investment studies of the rural water
supply systems to be carried out under such Part B (3) of the
Project in the following year; and
(b) prior to starting construction, take all measures to
assure that the community in which any such system is to be
constructed has established a health society and formally agreed
to provide the funds to finance the operation and maintenance of
such system.
Section 2.09. The State shall, for purposes of Part C (1) of
the Project:
(a) not later than April 1, 1981 and not later than
September 30 of each succeeding year, furnish to the Bank for
approval in the annual plan of operations, the plan for
contracting consultants for design and supervision of construction
of the roads to be designed and built in the year covered by such
plan;


﻿-4-
(b) take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure
that all the maintenance equipment to be acquired under Part C (1)
(b) of the Project shall be operated and maintained by DAER-CE and
shall be used solely for maintenance of municipal and State roads;
(c) not later than April 1, 1981, furnish to the Bank a
satisfactory five-year plan for advancing to and recuperating
from the Municipalities the funds for road maintenance;
(d) not later than December 31, 1981 and December 31, 1982:
(i) furnish the Bank for review and comment the results of the
consultants' studies for each respective year on improvement of
collector roads; and (ii) complete improvement of these roads by
June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1984, respectively;
(e) before starting construction of any roads included
in such Part C (1) of the Project, enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, through DAER-CE, with each
Municipality in which such road is to be located, whereby such
Municipality shall undertake to make available for the purpose:
(i) such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of such road; and (ii) such
funds and staff as shall be required to assist DAER-CE in the
maintenance of such road when constructed; and
(f) hire and maintain competent personnel in adequate
numbers in each DAER-CE field office.
Section 2.10. The State shall, for purposes of Part C (2) of
the Project:
(a) prior to initiating detailed studies and technical
assistance for any small-scale irrigation system with estimated
off-farm and on-farm investments in excess of $100,000 equivalent,
furnish to the Bank for comment, a preliminary analysis of any
such system; and
(b) prior to initiating engineering assistance for any
small-scale irrigation system, take all measures necessary to
assure that the recipients are organized as a group and that they
formally agree to provide the funds to finance the construction,
operation and maintenance costs of the system.
Section 2.11. The State shall, for purposes of Part C (3) of
the Project, and prior to initiating construction, furnish to the


﻿-5-
Bank for approval the location and construction plans for the new
central wholesale marketing warehouses.
Section 2.12. The State shall, for purposes of Part D of
the Project, cause CEAG-CE to provide assistance to small-scale
non-agricultural enterprises having less than ten employees, fixed
assets of less than 200 MVR, monthly sales of less than 85 MVR and
a maximum monthly owner income, from other sources, of less than
eight MVR.
Section 2.13. The State shall establish, through the POU,
not later than June 30, 1981, a credit statistics and monitoring
system satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall be
used to evaluate, on an annual basis, the extension of rural
credit to small farmer Project beneficiaries.
Section 2.14. The State shall, for purposes of Part E of the
Project:
(a) furnish to the Bank, for review and comment, the details
of the monitoring, data analysis and the farm survey plans prior
to their execution, but in any event not later than April 1, 1980;
and
(b) furnish to the Bank for approval the terms of reference
of the studies to be carried out by, or on behalf of, the PCHU and
furnish each such study to the Bank not later than three months
after its completion.
Section 2.15. The State shall enter into agreements with
local banks as necessary to ensure the availability of credit for
the development of the small-scale agricultural enterprises
assisted under Part D of the Project.
Section 2.16. The State shall:
(a) maintain rural development activities complementary to
the Project which are being carried out in the State as of the
date of this Agreement and which are being financed with State
funds;
(b) take, or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for
the acquisition of such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities provided under the Project; and


﻿-6-
(c) provide, or cause to be provided, all the funds neces-
sary for the purpose of (a) and (b) above.
Section 2.17. The State shall, through the PCMU:
(a) standardize the data to be used for monitoring purposes
by the Executing Entities; and
(b) prepare coding and analysis procedures for such
monitoring and, not later than April 1, 1981, furnish a report
thereon to the Bank for review.
Section 2.18. The State shall, through the PCMU, furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year, the audited
accounts and the auditors' report reiZerred to in Sections 4.04 and
4.05, respectively, of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.19. The State shall take out and maintain, or
cause to be taken out and maintained, with responsible insurers,
or make, or cause to be made, other provision satisfactory to the
Bank, in respect of the Project, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 2.20. (a) The State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.21. The State shall not take or permit to be taken
and cause each of its political or administrative subdivisions and
each of the entities owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the State or such subdivisions not to take
or permit to be taken, any action that would prevent or interfere
with the execution of the Project or with the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the State:
Secretaria de Planejamento
e Coordenaglo
Rua dos Tabajaras 80
60,000 Fortaleza, Cearg
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECRETARIA DE PLANEJAMENTO         1572
E COORDENAgAO
FORTALEZA
Cearg, Brazil


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretfrio de Planejamento e Coordenaglo or such other person
or persons as the Secrethrio de Planejamento e Coordenago
shall designate in writing, and the State shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF CEARA
By /c4   ,' L-2-.c'<).      ~    -Qc      0t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By )
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of   A   , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


