Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14627
IMPI.EMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT'
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
(LOAN 2634-CO)
JUNE 19, 1995
Infrastructure and Operations Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maw not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Colombian Peso (Col.$)
US$1.00                    Col.$101.19 (mid-1984)
US$1.00                    Col.$502.2 (1990 average)
US$1.00                    Col.$863.7 (1993 average)
UNITS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                  3.28 feet
kilometer (km)             0.62 miles
square km (sqkm)           0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONPES              =      Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6inica y Social
(National Council of Economics and Social Policies)
CORELCA             =      Corporacion E1lctrica de la Costa Atlantica
(Electric Corporation of la Costa Atlantica)
EEB                 =      Empresa de Energia de Bogota
(Energy Company of Bogota)
EPM                 =      Empresas Publicas de Medellin
(Public Company of Medellin)
CRE                 =      Energy Regulatory Commission
CVC                 =      Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
(Regional Corporation of Valle del Rio Cauca)
DNP                 =      Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Department Planning)
FEN                 =      Financiera Energetica Nacional
(National Financing Energy Corporation)
ICEL                =      Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
(Colombian Institute of Electric Energy)
ISA                 =      Interconexi6n El6ctrica S.A.
(Electric Interconection S.A.)
IADB                =      Inter-American Development Bank
MME                 =      Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOF                 =      Ministry of Finance
JNT                 =      Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Comission)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1" to December 3 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION H PROJECT
(LOAN 2634-CO)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                                                                    ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................1
Background  ..             .          ......................................................1
Project Objectives and Description .........................................................2
Achievement of Objectives  .........................................................3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation . ......................... 6
Project Sustainability  .........................................................8
Bank Performance .........................................................8
Borrower Performance ........................................................9
Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                                                       10
Key Lessons Learned ........................................................ 10
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................ 11
A. Executive  Summary                                  1......................................................... 1
PART III. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ........................................................                                                          15
Table  1: Summary  of Assessment ......................................................... 15
Table 2: Related  Bank Loans ......................................................... 16
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                                 16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual .................................. 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .....................................................   17
Table 6: Key  Indicators for Project Operation ........................................................                               18
Table 7: Studies Included  in Project ........................................................                                       18
Table 8A:   Comparative Poject Costs                                     ............................................ 19
Table 8B:   Project Financing                                  .................................................. 19
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .........................                                 ............................... 20
Table  10:   Status of Legal Covenants ....................... ..                               ............................... 21
Table  1 1:   Bank Resources;  Staff Inputs                                  ......................................... 23
Table  12:   Bank Resources;   Missions .........................                              ................................ 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
(LOAN 2634-CO)
PREFACE
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bogota Power Distribution II Project in
Colombia was prepared by Alfonso Posada (Consultant) and Jayme Porto Carreiro (LA3IN), and
reviewed by Peter Ludwig (Division Chief, Infrastructure Operations) and Robert Crown, Project
Adviser. The Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department EI, Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office, prepared the ICR based, among other sources, on the Issues/Decisions
Paper, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, project files, and interviews
with Borrower's Staff in Bogota. Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission in August 1994, during which a field review of all the physical facilities
included in the Project's scope was carried out. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is reflected in
the Borroweres own evaluation of the project's implementation and results, which is included as Part II
of the report.






- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Bogota Power Distribution II Project was financed through a loan to Empresa de Energia
de Bogota (EEB) which amounted to US$171 million; it was approved in November, 1985 and made
effective in September, 1987. The closing date was December, 1993, a year later than originally
planned. US$56.7 million of the loan proceeds were canceled. The balance of the loan was fully
disbursed; the last disbursement took place in January, 1994.
Background.
(i)    The electricity industry provides service to around 5.2 million users; energy consumption in
1993 amounted to 36.7TWh which were generated with an installed capacity of 9660MW. The
borrower, EEB, is the largest municipal utility in the country; it operates as a vertically integrated
corporation with an installed capacity of 2300MW; it provides electricity service in the metropolitan
region of Bogota (pop. 6.5 million) and smaller adjacent communities. It currently serves 1.1 million
customers with a peak demand of 1800MW.
(ii)   Until recently, the sector was characterized by powerful vertically-integrated monopolies
together with a large number of government-controlled distribution companies. It experienced major
difficulties during the 1980s: it underwent a lengthy period of financial crisis due to overbuilding of
generating facilities and low tariff levels, followed in the early 90s by an unprecedented drought which
caused country-wide rationing. These crises provided the impetus for embarking on radical
institutional reforms.
(iii)   The sector was reorganized, with Bank support, during the 1991-94 period. The process
incorporated efficiency, accountability and financial responsibility incentives into sector corporations
and was complemented with tariff increases together with a financial restructuring whereby the
Government injected massive resources into the sector to set it on a sound financial footing. The
results of these efforts were asserted with the approval of a Public Services Law and an Electricity
Law which emphasize the introduction of competitive incentives and provide for the regulation of non-
competitive supplies.
(iv)   The sector's restructuring has been successful: an Energy Regulatory Commission has been
operating since 1993, a competitive market for bulk supplies is being set up, the major generation and
transmission enterprise (ISA) has been split up into a generation company and a transmission/dispatch
corporation, and private generators are supplying part of the system's needs.
Project Objectives and Description.
(v)   The project was conceived for the purpose of supporting EEB in order to expand the
distribution of electricity in the Bogota area, extend electricity service to low-income areas of the city,
reduce energy losses and theft, and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of EEB's operations.



- iii -
(vi)   The project consisted of a physical component and an institutional component. The physical
component included 230/115kV substation equipment and lines, primary and secondary distribution
equipment together with new lines, line improvements and street lighting extensions, the installation of
300,000 meters and operations and maintenance equipment. The institutional component included
studies for controlling energy losses, reducing theft and improving distribution reliability and planning,
technical assistance for training EEB staff, and the implementation of a loss reduction program.
Achievement of Objectives.
(vii)  Reevaluating the objectives in hindsight, it becomes apparent that the physical components,
which consisted of standard distribution investments, could reasonably be implemented. In contrast,
the institutional components, including loss reduction targets and financial goals, appear to be
unrealistic given the overall organization of the power sector at the time, and EEB in particular which
lacked autonomy vis a vis municipal authorities, was subject to political meddling from the City
Council and faced no accountability constraints.
(viii) The physical objectives of the project were met with the exception of primary distribution lines
and secondary distribution line improvements. The 230kV and 115kV components, although delayed,
will be completed by December, 1996. The extension of service to low income customers and the
public lighting goals were achieved and benefited an estimated 650,000 people.
(ix)   Loss reduction objectives were not achieved at all: the level of losses in 1993 was only
marginally lower to that of 1987 (22% vs. 24%). Covenanted financial goals did not materialize
either: the rate of return for the enterprise decreased instead of reaching the 12% target; the self
financing ratio was only achieved twice during the seven-year execution period and accounts
receivable (as a percentage of sales) increased to 43% instead of decreasing to 17%.
(x)   A rough ex-post rate of return calculation for EEB's investment program yields a value of 9%,
significantly below the ex-ante rate, estimated at 12% in the SAR. The reason for the shortfall can be
traced to the cost overruns of the Guavio generation plant, rather than to failures of the distribution
project itself (SAR demand projections were remarkably accurate). However, the institution building
components of the project, had they been implemented, should have helped EEB to overcome many of
its management weaknesses which ultimately led to an unsatisfactory performance.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation.
(xi)   The major factors which affected implementation were (a) unrealistic objectives in regard to
the institutional components of the project; (b) procurement delays; (c) a weakly staffed Project
Management Unit; and (d) a lack of stable management policies in EEB.
(xii)  Procurement delays originated due to lengthy Government approval procedures and conflicts
between Bank procedures and those required by the Bogota municipality. Misprocurements caused
the cancellation of US$1.69 million of the loan proceeds. The Project Management Unit, which
according to Bank experience is a critical component in the implementation process, lacked authority
to coordinate the activities of different EEB groups involved in the project. Throughout project



- iv -
implementation the Bank lacked an effective counterpart within EEB to account for the project's
performance due to frequent staff turnover and the instability of the borrower's top management.
(xiii) The monitoring indicators of the project were uniformly unsatisfactory throughout its
execution; additionally, EEB did not comply with numerous covenanted conditions. The decision to
partially cancel the loan was taken in 1992 when 78% of the project had been completed and when it
became evident that EEB's record would not improve. The loss reduction components were kept as a
means of alleviating the power rationing which was taking place and which would last until 1993.
Disbursements continued through 1993 and reached 88% of their scheduled amount.
Project Sustainability.
(xiv) The physical investments of the project are likely to be operated and maintained successfully.
The sustainability of components such as the loss reduction program, which require strong
management support, appears to be unlikely until institutional reform of EEB (following the directives
contained in the Public Services Law) is implemented.
Bank Performance.
(xv)  During appraisal and negotiation, the Bank overestimated EEB's capability of implementing
institutional reforms. It failed to recognize the procurement issue which would have required
agreement with the Government and the Municipality reaffirming the precedence of Bank procedures
to be applied to projects financed by the Bank and it did not exert sufficient pressure on EEB to
overcome the weakness of the Implementation Unit.
(xvi) The Bank's supervision reports reflect a continued preoccupation with EEB's institutional
strengthening which ultimately helped to recognize the need for the overall power sector
reorganization which proved successful. The Bank's support contributed to its success and continued
help is being provided at present through the Energy Sector Technical Assistance Loan. Regarding
implementation obstacles, the Bank has commissioned a Country Procurement Assessment Report for
Colombia that will serve as a guide for future operations.
Borrower Performance.
(xvii) EEB's overall performance was unsatisfactory: it failed to find constructive solutions to
procurement impediments and higher management did not respond to the project's problems. Strong
management support was lacking in critical areas such as the loss reduction component. This is
reflected in the low rating given the project in all of the supervision missions. On the financial front
EEB's situation was hampered by the Guavio project's major problems as well as unrealistic pricing
policies which were beyond its control. The blame for the latter lies squarely on the Government's
macroeconomic policies which it pursued to the detriment of the power sector in general throughout
the 80s; much-needed pricing reforms only materialized in 1991-92 as part of the power sector
restructuring program.



v -
Assessment of Outcome.
(xviii) Despite implementation delays, those physical elements of the project which were undertaken
were put in place and are operating to satisfaction. The institution building component of the project
was not successful and the loss reduction programs were ineffective. The physical component
accounted for 96% of investment, and therefore the final assessment would show that the project was
economical even under the assumption that all of the project's institutional component had been
wasted.
Key Lessons Learned.
(xix) Experience gained from the Bogota distribution project applicable to future operations
includes:
*  the need to undertake a realistic appraisal of the underlying institutional framework of the
sector and the Borrower, and to include institution-building components in a project only if
there is a commitment and a policy to implement required reforms;
*  the requisite to carry out and to monitor the project by putting in place a Project
Implementation Unit with sufficient authority and autonomy to solve execution obstacles;
and
*  the requirement to assess procurement procedures and to obtain explicit agreement with
the Borrower and/or the Government concerning (a) following Bank contracting guidelines
and (b) waiving procedures that may delay implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
LOAN 2634-CO
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
The Bogota Power Distribution II Project in Colombia was financed through Loan 2634-
CO in the amount of US$171 million which was approved on November 26, 1985 and made
effective on September 30, 1987. The Borrower was the Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB),
formerly Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB).
The closing date was December 31, 1993, one year later than originally foreseen.
US$56.7 million of the loan proceeds were canceled. The balance of the loan has been fully
disbursed. The last disbursement was made on January 10, 1994.
Background
1.    Between 1970 and 1994, the Bank supported the development of Colombia's power sector
with 15 loans for over US$1.9 billion'. The fourteenth Bank loan to the power sector since 1970
went to EEB and helped finance the Bogota Power Distribution II Project. It was the seventh
loan to EEB since 19602.
2.    Until the early 90s the power subsector was nominally under the supervision of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). However, in practice it operated with little control
regarding its investment plans which were prepared by ISA, a generation and transmission
enterprise owned by the two principal municipal utilities and a number of Government-affiliated
companies.
3.    The power subsector experienced major problems during the last decade. In the 80s it
became the source of considerable financial difficulties due to overbuilding of generation plants
which confronted the Government with major macroeconomic problems. Paradoxically, because
of the hydro predominance in the system, it became increasingly vulnerable to weather changes
and faced a supply crisis due to an unprecedented drought in the early 90s, which aggravated
sectorial problems caused by inadequate planning, low efficiency, and poor maintenance. These
crises provided the impetus for embarking on radical institutional reforms.
4.    A number of the problems that the sector faces have institutional origins. In the 60s and
70s the state increasingly became the major owner in energy enterprises, with a consequent
'The Inter-Ameican Development Bank (IDB) contributed a sinilar amount in 22 loans.
2Before 1985 the Bank had made 6 loans, totalling USS613.2 million, to EEB for electric power generation, transmission and
distribution (225-CO in 1960, 313-CO in 1962, 537-CO in 1968, 1628-CO in 1978,1807-CO in 1980 and2008-CO in 1981).



- 2 -
slackening of efficiency incentives and the virtual disappearance of accountability. The symptoms
of serious problems in the energy sector became alarming in the mid-80s with the power sector's
financial crisis; it then became evident that energy policy should be given a cohesive nature in
order to address the issues of excessive investment in electricity generation and the
underdevelopment of the gas subsector. In 1990 an OED study3, developed during a two year
period with the participation of Colombian experts, identified many of the weaknesses of the
power subsector and recommended its restructuring through the introduction of adequate
regulation and private sector participation.
5.    Since 1991 the Bank has supported the reshaping of the power sector in order to
introduce market forces by promoting competition and private sector participation. This process
culminated in 1994 with the approval of the Public Services Law and the Electricity Law whose
implementation is expected to remedy many of the sector's weaknesses.
6.    The Borrower. EEB is a municipal utility attached to the Bogota Municipality since
1951. It operates as a vertically integrated corporation, with an installed generating capacity of
2300MW; its service area encompasses the metropolitan area of Bogota (population 6.5 million)
as well as a number of smaller towns in adjacent regions. It currently serves 1.1 million customers
with a peak demand of 1800MW.
7.    When the project was appraised, EEB had an installed capacity of 1288MW, 700,000
customers and a peak demand of 1000MW. The SAR forecast a peak demand of 1466MW in
1990; actual demand was slightly higher (1496MW); energy demand was forecast to grow at an
average 5.4 percent per annum, and in fact it increased by an average 5.7 percent. In any case,
the SAR projections were very accurate.
8.    EEB's management is appointed by the mayor of Bogota whose tenure lasts three years;
the company has experienced a high turnaround of upper management (three CEOs during the last
three years). It has been widely accepted that the company has suffered from outside intervention
by the City Council. It currently has around 4100 employees.
Project Objectives and Description
9.    The objectives of the project consisted of expanding the distribution of electricity in the
Bogota metropolitan area, extending electricity service to low-income areas of the city, reducing
technical energy losses and energy theft, and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of EEB's
operations.
10.   The Project consisted of:
(i)         Subtransmission: Installation of 1100 MVA of substation capacity at
230/115 kV and around 10 km of 230 kV lines and 75 km of 115 kV lines;
3OED, Colombia-The Power Sector and the World Bank. 1970-1987, Report No. 8893 (June 28, 1990).



(ii)        Distribution:
*  Installation of 350 MVA of distribution substation capacity at 115/11.4
kV, 115/34.5 kV and 230/11.4 kV;
*  Installation of 750 km and improvement of 1600 km of primary
distribution lines at 11.4 kV and 34.5 kV;
*  Installation of 650 km and improvement of 900 km of secondary
circuits;
*  Installation of 10 MVA of voltage regulators and 60 MVAR of
capacitors;
*  Installation of 300,000 meters; and
*  Installation of street lighting.
(iii)       Operation and Maintenance: Acquisition of equipment for hot line
maintenance of substations and lines, and low, medium and high voltage
testing equipment;
(iv)        Studies: (a) an evaluation of types and locations of illegal customers; (b)
studies on: reliability of EEB's distribution system, planning and operation
of EEB's subtransmission system, and systematization of energy losses
control;
(v)         Training and Technical Assistance: Provision of technical assistance and
training for EEB's staff to improve their management, strategic planning
and technical skills; and
(vi)        An Energy Loss Reduction Program.
11.   The estimated project cost at appraisal was US$348.6 million before interest during
construction (IDC); including IDC, the expected cost increased to US$389.6 million. The project
was expected to be executed over a period of 5.5 years. The programmed completion date was
June 30, 1991. The Bank's U$171 million loan was designed to cover 90% of foreign currency
costs, including US$41 million of IDC.
Achievement of Objectives
12.   Re-evaluating the project's objectives in hindsight, it becomes apparent that the physical
objectives could reasonably be met given (a) that they are standard elements of distribution
systems with no technological risk and (b) that they could be executed through experienced
contractors with little risk of delays. By contrast, the institutional objectives appear to be
unrealistic given the overall organization of the power subsector in general and of EEB in
particular: the enterprise did not operate as a business, there were no accountability constraints,
negligible financial autonomy (EEB's budget is subject to approval by the City Council which
thereby exerts a stranglehold on the enterprise) and there was little management control due to
frequent changes at the executive level (EEB had eight general managers between 1985 and



- 4 -
1994). Furthermore, EEB's management focus was overwhelmed by the construction of the
1OOOMW Guavio hydroelectric project which had created major financial difficulties by incurring
over US$1 billion in cost overruns due to delays and physical contingencies. Under these
conditions, which were evident at the time of appraisal, the achievement of institutional goals
appears unrealistic; furthermore, the strains in management would subsequently imperil the
achievement of the physical objectives of the project.
13.   The SAR's proposed targets for loss reduction were also overly optimistic, particularly
given the level of losses - 23 percent in 1983 -. It appears unreasonable to expect that by 1990
losses could be reduced to 13 percent in a city as large as Bogota with numerous slums. Theft
control in particular requires a firm management approach in order to confront social unrest and
political pressures associated with the required actions. Under the circumstances, EEB's weak
management could not be expected to accomplish this goal. According to EEB this unrealistic
target was proposed by the Bank and accepted with reluctance by the Colombian negotiating
team.
14.   Pliysical Objectives. Early in 1989 it became apparent that the physical objectives of the
Project could not be achieved within the agreed time-frame, because of delays in the contracting
processes due mainly to the lengthy and cumbersome contract-processing procedures to which
EEB is subject by Colombia's and Bogota's legislation, as well as the difficulties in making them
compatible with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project's achievements are summarized
in the following table:
Comparison of Planned and Achieved Physical Objectives
Planned     Installed
(a)   Subtransmission
230/1 15kV substations                 1 100MVA    930MVA
230kV, 115kV Lines                      85km         23km
(b)   Primary Distribution
115/11.4kV substations                 350MVA       438MVA
New lines                              750km        485km
Line improvements                       1600km      304km
(c)   Secondary Distribution
New lines                              650km        630km
Line improvements                      900km        416km
15.   The project's 230kV components, albeit delayed, will be completed with Borrower's
resources, together with the 115kV components. The latest project completion date is December
1996, although 88% of the project was completed as of December, 1994. The delays forced a re-
evaluation of the project's physical objectives and total investment in the project was reduced
from US$389.6 million at appraisal to US$220.4 million when it became evident that the
implementation milestones would not be achieved.



16.   Extension of Service to Low Income Customers: in this area the project fully achieved its
social objective. Practically all extensions of primary and secondary distribution done with project funds
are in the low-income city sections of Bogota. Altogether the socially worthwhile aim of supplying
reliable electric service to the poorest areas of the city has been successfully attained through the
Project. An estimated 650,000 low income people benefited from the project.
The public lighting objectives were achieved: main thoroughfares were illuminated, and the
programmed replacement of incandescent bulbs by mercury vapor ones was executed; lighting
controls were installed thereby reducing losses.
17.   Loss Reduction Objectives. The objectives regarding loss reduction were not achieved.
On one hand, they appear to be unrealistic and, on the other, loss indicators which were on the
order of 24% in 1987, were only reduced to 22% in 1993 (they were down to 18% in 1992 due
principally to the energy rationing that took place and cut off supplies to mainly residential sectors
where a large portion of the commercial losses is concentrated). In December 1991 EEB entered
into a performance contract with Financiera Energetica Nacional (FEN), which among other indentures
required EEB to reduce energy losses to percentages which are higher than those stipulated in the
Bank's Loan Agreement. All the same, EEB has not been able to meet these new targets; EEB
performance in this regard is summarized in the following table:
Percentage of Energy Losses
1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
According to:
Loan Agreement         21.0   18.0  16.0  14.0  13.0  13.0  13.0
Contract with FEN                                        19.3  18.0
Actually Achieved      24.6   24.8  22.4  22.9  20.1  18.5  22.0
18.   Not much confidence can be placed on the achieved figures since a large part of
consumption is not metered and computed on the basis of connected loads which are seldom
verified. In other words, actual losses could be lower than stated above if legally connected but
unmetered consumers consume more energy than EEB's estimates.
19.   Institutional Objectives. Regarding the institutional objectives of the project, their
unrealistic scope given the situation of EEB led to a foreseeable failure regarding their
achievement. It should be noted that there have been some improvements in management quality
-albeit unrelated to the project- associated with the independence of the Board of Directors
(following directives contained in the 1991 Constitution) whose members are no longer subject to
the direct influence of the City Council. However, the enterprise continues to lack autonomy vis a
vis municipal politics and will therefore continue to depend on the quality of short-lived staff
appointments rather than on its strength as a business enterprise. This situation is expected to
change with the implementation of the Public Services Law which requires greater autonomy for
enterprises engaged in providing energy, water, telephone and natural gas services.



- 6 -
20.   Covenanted Financial Objectives. These were not achieved either, and have tended to
worsen during the last three years:
EEB's Comparative Financial and Operational Performance
1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Rate of Retum (/o):
As per Loan Agreement       12.0   12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0
Actually Achieved           10.5    8.1   8.6  12.0   6.6   6.0   7.7
Self-Financing Ratio (°/O)
As per Loan Agreement      35.0   35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0
Actually Achieved          27.0   59.0  31.0  26.0  23.0  36.0  16.0
Accounts Receivable as Percent of Sales:
As per Loan Agreeinent      17.0   17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0
Actually Achieved          38.0   68.0  44.0  36.0  35.0  47.0  43.0
Debt Service Coverage:
As per Loan Agreement        1.5    1.5    1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
Actually Achieved            1.5    1.5    1.0   1.0   1.0   0.6   1.4
21.   Return on Investment: The SAR evaluated the return on investment as the discount rate
equalizing the present values of the stream of benefits and costs associated with EEB's 1985-90
development program of which the Project is a part and cannot be reasonably segregated. In
computing the revised economic rate of return a similar methodology was used. The cost streams
comprise the capital cost of the program and the incremental operational and maintenance cost
related to the incremental sales of electricity associated with the 1988-93 program which was the
time-frame when the Project was developed. As a proxy for benefits, revenues from sales of
power were used, derived from incremental sales associated with the program. This exercise was
extended for 30 years after end of 1993, which is considered to be the average life-time of EEB's
facilities included in the 1987-93 investment program. On this basis the recomputed rate of return
is 9% compared to 12% in the SAR. This recomputed rate of return reflects principally the very
large costs associated with the construction of the Guavio Hydroelectric Project. It should be
pointed out that the recomputed rate of return cannot be compared in a strict sense with the
SAR's computed rate of return, since the actual time-frame for EEB's investment program was
shifted from 1985-90 to 1987-93 in the later computation.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation.
22.   Delays in project implementation led to the decision to partially cancel the loan. The Bank
realized, towards the end of 1991, that EEB was far from achieving the institutional objectives of
the Project and decided to suspend loan disbursements arguing non-compliance with several loan
covenants (October 25, 1991). In February 1992, at the request of EEB, a Bank mission visited
the utility to discuss EEB's proposal to lift the suspension of disbursements. During this mission
EEB informed the Bank of actions taken and plans to improve project implementation. Although



the mission acknowledged EEB's progress and improvements, it considered that the current
structural problems (i.e. lack of sufficient autonomy) of EEB would not allow a substantial and
sustainable improvement in efficiency and, consequently, that continuing the Bank's financial
support for the project could not be justified on economic grounds. The mission discussed with
EEB the following solution: (i) reduction of the project scope and consequent cancellation of the
loan for the amounts related to expansion of the distribution system beyond certain on-going
activities approved by the Bank before the suspension of disbursements; and (ii) lifting the
suspension of disbursements to finance the loss reduction program, which was economically
justified and which would alleviate the power rationing being experienced by the utility, and (iii)
financing of interest during construction due in 1992, so as not further worsen EEB's already
precarious financial situation. Upon acceptance by EEB of this proposal the Bank decided in
March 1992 to lift the loan disbursement suspension.
23.   The decision to cancel part of the loan was taken in 1992 when 78% of the project had
been completed and when it became evident that its timely implementation was hopeless. As the
cancellation was partial, disbursements continued throughout 1993, reaching 88% of the
scheduled amount with the last disbursement in January, 1994.
24.   Unrealistic Objectives: Expectations that EEB could be turned around from a politically-
controlled utility into an efficient and fully autonomous public enterprise within the project's time-
frame, were clearly unrealistic given the relatively weak leverage the Bank had on Government
policies and actions and the unlikelihood that EEB's management would try to push for this
objective given its political commitments. Only lately has there been any action by Government
and EEB's management along this line. The targets set for the reduction of energy losses were
also clearly unrealistic. In this context the Bank certainly was unreasonable in setting unattainable
goals.
25.   Procurement Delays: To a large extent, project implementation was seriously affected by
procurement delays caused by the Government approval procedures to which EEB is subjected.
This oversight contributed to project delays. Misprocurements caused the cancellation of
US$1.69 million of the loan proceeds. The Project, which was supposed to be completed by June
30, 1991, was only completed towards the end of 1994 even in its reduced scope.
26.   Project Management Unit: Experience throughout the Bank's operations has shown that
successful implementation of projects requires a dedicated Project Management Unit, with full
authority to coordinate the tasks of all the Borrower's resources involved in the Project. Before
effectiveness, an administrative unit in charge of this task, with powers and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, was required by the Loan Agreement (Section 3.03a.); EEB put in place
a Project Management Unit with no authority and which barely kept up with the administrative
paperwork. Although it was noted that one of the main causes for delays in the first Distribution
Project (Loan 1807-CO) had been the lack of coordination between EEB's units, the Bank
accepted the setting up of a project management unit without sufficient authority to perform its
task in a satisfactory manner.



27.   Lack of Stable Management Policies: Undoubtedly the main factor directly affecting the
Project's implementation and EEB's overall performance has been the lack of continuity in
management policies. This in turn has been caused by the rapid turn-over in EEB's top
management both at the Chief Executive and department levels.
28.   Macroeconomic Policies: Implementation of EEB's investment program was affected by
changing Government public investment targets set up by DNP (Departamento Nacional de
Planeacion) which required EEB to revise its investment budgets according to instructions issued
by Government.
Project Sustainability
29.   The power sector has been hampered by an unrealistic tariff level which has led to massive
subsidization. This problem impacted on EEB during the last decade and only recently have
measures been taken to adjust tariffs to the level of electricity costs. These measures should allow
the enterprise to be strengthened financially, therefore generating funds to maintain the physical
components of the project (the latter should provide service during their lifetime, as their
maintenance requirements are relatively modest). This covers both investments in network
elements and those oriented towards the reduction of technical losses (e.g. line rehabilitation).
The component of the project oriented towards the reduction of commercial losses and theft is
principally a management function which requires continued attention; given the institutional
situation of EEB, the sustainability of this component appears unlikely, at least before the full
implementation of the Public Services Law and the Electricity Law which will incorporate
commercial incentives within the enterprise.
Bank Performance
30.   Although the Bank's decision to support the Project was based on optimistic assessments
as to the degree of reform that could be achieved in EEB during the Project's implementation, it is
also true that the Bank played a constructive role in assisting EEB to carry out the Project.
Throughout the supervision mission reports the Bank's preoccupation with the strengthening of
EEB can be detected. The Bank's efforts are finally paying out in the current strengthening
program of EEB. Bank's participation in the Project was fully consistent with the policy of the
Government to undertake major infrastructure improvements, particularly in the power sector,
within a framework of achieving efficiency in the performance of the utilities in charge of
operating the facilities. Nevertheless, the setbacks that arose during project implementation,
particularly in meeting the loan covenants, should have been foreseen by the Bank given EEB's
track record during implementation of the first Distribution Project.
31.   The delays associated with the project could have been avoided by agreeing with both the
municipality and the Government on a streamlined procurement procedure. The Bank neglected
to take into account this factor at the assessment stage. Furthermore, project supervision
concentrated on the physical objectives of the project, rather than the institutional ones. The
Bank also neglected to pressure EEB for setting up a project implementation unit to carry out the
project on time, despite having recognized that this element was a major factor in the delays
experienced during the implementation of the EEB First Distribution Project.



- 9 -
32.   However, regarding the overall institutional problem in the power sector, the Bank
recognized the issue and took steps to support the Government in the process of power sector
institutional reform since 1991. The Bank has helped to shape and to define a new vision for the
energy sector by: (a) supporting analyses of the sector's problems and identifying the issues; (b)
exploring the options for addressing them; (c) fostering constructive debate concerning past
conceptual and systemic deficiencies attributable to inadequate institutions; (d) designing a reform
program starting with the power subsector; and (e) by supporting the implementation of this
program.
33.   The Bank's role regarding the electric power sector was formulated in detail in a 1993
Policy Paper4 which provides guiding principles for Bank support of power sector restructuring
programs. The recommendations consist of: (a) transparent regulation requiring countries to
separate their government's role as operator and owner of utilities from its policy formulation
role, through independent regulatory bodies; (b) importation of services which the Bank would
assist in financing for improving efficiency; (c) commercialization and corporatization whereby
the Bank will aggressively support power sector strategies designed to reorganize the operation of
utilities as commercial concerns; (d) commitment lending focused on countries clearly engaged in
improving sector performance in line with the preceding principles; and (e) encouraging private
sector investment.
34.   In Colombia, the Bank has implemented this policy by promoting institutional reform in
the Power Sector; and by continuing this support through two complementary approaches: (a)
technical assistance oriented towards institutional strengthening and (b) support for specific
projects and investments which will promote the effective operation of the proposed institutions.
Technical assistance is being provided through the Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
approved by the Board in December 1994. The Power Market Development Project, an
operation to be submitted to the Board in the second semester of 1995, will support the
development of infrastructure for a competitive bulk-supply market.
Borrower Performance
35.   EEB's performance regarding the project was unsatisfactory: upper management did not
support it in regard to finding solutions to the implementation obstacles that were encountered
and did not structure an adequate Implementation Unit. The Borrower was hampered by the lack
of continuity in management policy which inevitably impacted on the project. Although the
physical aspects of the Project were well designed, the preparation for its implementation were
generally sketchy. This resulted in delays and finally in a sharp reduction in project scope.
Altogether EEB's performance during project implementation can be considered poor and this is
reflected in the low rating given it in all the supervision mission reports. A specially negative
aspect of project implementation has been the inability of EEB to deal with the major management
issue of non-technical losses.
4 The World Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector , The World Bank, 1993



- 10-
Assessment of Outcome
36.   Despite implementation delays, those physical elements of the project which were
undertaken were put in place and are operating to satisfaction. The institution building
component of the project was not successful and the loss reduction programs were ineffective.
Despite these setbacks, over 95% of the project's investments are providing service and have
served their primary purpose of reinforcing EEB's distribution network.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   The main lessons learned from the Bogota Distribution II Project are:
*  At the project preparation stage a realistic appraisal of the institutional framework of
the Borrower and the sector should be undertaken; in particular, institution-building
components should be included in a project only if there is a sector-wide institutional
framework in place thereby ensuring that they have a reasonable chance of being
implemented (as opposed to paying lip service to Bank guidelines by setting unrealistic
objectives);
*  A commitment to project implementation should be assured prior to project execution,
both on the part of the Government and the Borrower; this commitment should
translate into putting in place a project execution unit endowed with sufficient power
to obtain executive decisions necessary for successful implementation; and
*  A realistic evaluation of procurement procedures at the preparation stage should be
followed at the negotiations stage with an explicit agreement to by-pass local
procedures (e.g. import licenses and municipal contracting codes) that may delay the
implementation and a commitment to follow Bank contracting guidelines (In 1987 the
Bank made an attempt that has partially overcome these discrepancies by negotiating
with the Government the use of model bidding documents. However, this
arrangement was only put in effect after the signature of this loan. The Bank is
currently preparing a Country Procurement Assessment Report for Colombia that will
serve as a guide for future operations).



- 11 -
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE5
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA DE BOGOTA
BOGOTA POWER DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
LOAN 2634-CO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A.    Executive Summary
Objectives
* The main objectives of the Project were to expand EEB's urban subtransmission and
distribution capacities to meet demand up until 1993, reduce energy losses and thereby
improve the Empresa's economic and financial situation, and improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of its operations.
2.    Principal Aspects of the Project: We give below the principal aspects that are either related
to the project or else affected it in some way during implementation.
*  The project was submitted to the World Bank in 1984. It followed on from the first
Bogota Power Distribution Project, Loan 1807-CO, and was implemented over the period
1987-1993.
IBRD loan 2634-CO for US$171.0 million was approved by the Bank in December 1986;
following negotiations in Bogota in May 1987 it became effective in September of that
year.
*  The total project cost, originally estimated in the Appraisal Report at US$389.6 million
(US$189.6 million in foreign exchange and US$200.0 million equivalent in local currency)
was revised twice. The final cost of the completed project was US$220.53 million
(US$13 1.1 million in foreign exchange and US$89.43 million equivalent in local currency).
*  On October 25, 1991 the Bank temporarily suspended disbursements because EEB was
not complying with its financial or commercial conmmitments under the Loan Agreement or
meeting its energy loss targets.
*  At the end of 1990, the Bank canceled US$1.69 million of loan amount because EEB had
awarded a contract without fully observing the Bank's procurement guidelines.
*  In February 1992, EEB followed the Bank's recommendation and requested cancellation of
US$38.2 million of loan amount because it could not feasibly be used by the original
project completion date of December 31, 1992.
S Full ICR from Borrower available in LAC Files



- 12 -
*  This brought the final loan amount to US$131,109,841.00.
*  The final loan disbursement figure, including financial charges up to November 1992
(US$19,517,508.80) and disbursements authorized by the Bank up to January 1994, was
US$114,431,899.33.
*  Colombia imposed an energy rationing program between March 2, 1992 and April 2, 1993,
affecting up to 25% of overall energy demand, to cope with the decrease in water
resources caused by the climatic disturbances experienced throughout the country.
*  The five generating units for the El Guavio Hydroelectric Project were completed and
placed in operation between December 1992 and July 1993; this contributed decisively to
the termination of the rationing program.
3.    Achievements: The project's achievements may be summarized as follows:
*  Execution of the planned works in the areas of subtransmission, transformer and
distribution capacity, and procurement and installation of ancillary equipment and materials,
thereby assuring a ready supply of energy to handle increased demand.
*  Expansion of service coverage and remodeling of distribution networks within an extensive
area inhabited by low-income groups (I and 2 especially); this made a very important
contribution toward improving their socioeconomic situation.
*  Energy losses were reduced from 25.7% in 1987 to 18.5% in 1992, but rose back up to
22% in December 1993; however, the percentage was affected by the rationing program
because it was calculated for a full year. There are now signs that, thanks to the actions
taken, it is regaining its downward momentum, and it is to be hoped that this trend will
continue.
*  EEB was restructured in accordance with the recommendations of the institutional study
carried out under the Project.  It has switched over from  an operations-based
administrative organization to a process-based system in which the various work areas are
organized to reflect the ultimate objectives of the different processes, their goals and
responsibilities now being more clearly defined.
*  In December 1991, a performance contract was signed with Financiera Energetica
Nacional (FEN), under which EEB, supported by the district and central governments,
agreed to take immediate steps toward making the necessary structural changes and to set
and achieve targets for improving its business performance and hence its financial results.
FEN, for its part, will provide the financial support needed by EEB to improve its debt
service capacity, and is virtually guaranteeing the funds required for completion of the El
Guavio Hydroelectric Project.



- 13 -
*  Under Decree #1421 of 1993, establishing the Organic Statute of the Capital District
[Estatuto Organico del Distrito Capital], the composition of the Board of Directors was
amended, and EEB was granted administrative and budgetary autonomy, while now being
designated a State industrial and commercial enterprise [empresa industrial y comercial del
Estado].
*  The Electricity Law and Residential Public Services Law were finally enacted in 1994,
ratifying EEB's autonomy and its status as a State industrial and commercial enterprise.
*  Law #80 was enacted in October 1993, establishing the General Government Procurement
Statute [Estatuto General de Contrataci6n de la Administraci6n Publica], which
considerably simplifies contracting procedures and revokes the rules formerly governing
EEB (Decree #222 and the District Tax Code).
*  It is also pointed out that during the project execution period substantial changes were
made to the institutional structure of Colombia's electricity sector, basically through the
introduction of competency criteria for service delivery and private sector participation.
Sector planning will now come under the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
*  In 1990 the corporation changed its name to Empresa de Energia de Bogota, with a view
to extending its field of action to other energy sources. Acting along these lines, it decided
to take out a 40% participation in Compafiia de Gas Natural S.A., with a view to ensuring
orderly management of the use of natural gas, a fuel that partially replaces the electricity
used by certain population groups for cooking and heating water.
*  The economic analysis gives an annual rate of return of 8.9%, measured in constant dollars.
Although this rate of return is lower than the appraisal estimate, it cannot be called low,
since present financial market conditions are not the same as when the appraisal was
carried out. At that time the return on public capital in Colombia was calculated at 12%,
whereas it is currently estimated as being no higher than 1 00/o.
4.    Difficulties:  Project implementation was affected by the following difficulties:
*  At the very outset, the loss targets set were overly optimistic, virtually impossible to
achieve with EEB's available resources and within the agreed time frame.
*  The investment ceilings set by the Government.
*  The priority assigned to completion of the El Guavio Hydroelectric Project; combined with
the fixed investment ceiling, this restricted resource availability for the present Project.
*  Lack of real and effective project management with sufficient autonomy and authority to
carry out the Project.



- 14-
* Frequent changes in the management, organization and staff of the various areas.
* Conflicts between the Bank's procurement guidelines and Colombian contracting
legislation.
5.    Works in progress
*  Work is progressing on the substations and lines that were not completed within the project
execution period, and the study of planning and operation of the subtransmission system is
nearing completion.
*  To ensure the program's continuity, and in response to the requirements imposed by the
new free market regulations, the present Government has introduced a Business
Strengthening Plan, focusing mainly on a strengthening of the electricity system and of
customer service.
*  The purpose of these plans is to reduce vulnerability, ensure reliable, high-quality, stable,
continuous and efficient service delivery, and promote optimum customer relations.



- 15 -
PART m STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Achievement of          Substantial        Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                            X
Sector policies                                  X
Institutional development                         X
Physical objectives                               X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender concerns                                                                   X
Other social objectives         X
Public sector management                          X
Private sector                                                                    X
development                                                                       x
Other
Project Sustainability        Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  X          _ _ _ _
Bank Performance              Highly         Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                    X
Preparation assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                      x
Borrower Performance
Preparation                                      X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                               X
Operation                                                         X
Assessment of            Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Outcome             Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
x



-16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                    Purpose                  Year of Approval      -Status
Preeedhg Operatins
575-CO   National Interconnection             1968                Completed
681-CO   Chivor Hydro                         1970                Completed
1582-CO   San Carlos Hydro                     1978               Completed
1583-CO   500 kV Interconnection to Northern Coast   1978         Completed
1628-CO   Mesitas Hydro                        1978               Completed
1725-CO   San Carlos II Hydro                  1979               Completed
1807-CO   Bogota Distribution I                1980               Completed
2008-CO   Guavio Hydro                         1981                Completed
2401-CO   Energy Financing Corporation         1984                Completed
2889-CO   Electric Sector Adjustment           1987               _Completed
Foilowig Operatin
3278-CO               Public Sector Reform                 1990               Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                   Latest Estimate
Identification                   1984                             1984
Preparation                      1984                             1984
Appraisal                        11/84                           11/84
Negotiations                     05/85                            10/85
Board Presentation               06/85                            11/85
Signing                          12/85                           12/86
Effectiveness                    03/86                           09/87
Project Completion               06/91                            12/96
Loan Closing                     12/92                            12/93
Note: The Project was substantially completed on 12/94



- 17 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in USSMiUion)
Bank FY         86    87      88    89    90      91      92      93     94
Appraisal Estimate,    15.9   40.2   66.9  93.0  114.7  130.0     -      -
Actual                --      -    3.7  29.6   63.6  77.9   101.4  108.9  114.3
Actual %of estiniate          0      6    32      55    60       78     84      88
Date of Final Disbursement              January 10, 1994                   ___
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
EEB's Comparative Financial and Operational Performances
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Rate of Return (%):
As per Loan Agreement        12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
Actually Achieved            10.5     8.1      8.6    12.0      6.6      6.0     7.7
Self-Financing Ratio (%):
As per Loan Agreement        35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0
Actually Achieved            27.0    59.0    31.0    26.0    23.0    36.0    16.0
Account Receivables as
Percent of Sales:
As per Loan Agreement        17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Actually Achieved            38.0    68.0    44.0    36.0    35.0    47.0    43.0
Debt Service Coverage:
As per Loan Agreement         1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5
Actually Achieved             1.5     1.5      1.0     1.0      1.0      0.6     1.4
'Loan amnount was for US$171 million, US$41.0 million was from interest during construction.



- 18 -
Percentage of Enerr Losses
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991       1992      1993
According to:
Loan Agreement              21.0       18.0       16.0      14.0       13.0       13.0      13.0
Contract with FEN                                                                19.3       18.0
Actually Achieved           24.6       24.8      22.4       22.9      20.1       18.5       22.0
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Same as above)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined                          Impact of
Study                       at appraisal/redefined            Status        Study
Illegal Consumers              Location of Illegal Consumers           Completed    Satisfactory
Reliability and Losses         Distribution System Reliability and Losses    Completed    Satisfactory
Evaluation
Planning and Operation         Reliability of Subtransmission System and    Completed    Satisfactory
its Planning
Computer Aided Planning of     Planning of Distribution                Completed    Satisfactory
Distribution
Control Center Supervision     Supervision during Implementation of    Completed    Satisfactory
Control Center
Distribution System  Mapping   Overall Mapping of Distribution         Completed    Satisfactory
Institutional Study            EEB's Organizational Structure          Completed    Satisfactory



- 19 -
Table 8A: Comparative Poject Costs
(in US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Subtransmission                  5.9    12.5    18.4    14.0    17.3    31.3
Distribution                    141.2    80.3   221.5    52.3    52.3   104.6
Maintenance Equipment and Lab.   0.3    15.1    15.4       1.9     7.2      9.1
Training                                  2.0     2.0      1.0     2.8      3.8
Studies                          0.8              0.8      4.0     2.0      6.0
Losses Reduction                  1.0     1.0     2.0    10.7    20.0    30.7
engineering and Administration   13.0             13.0     3.3              3.3
Total Base - Line Cost         162.2   110.9   273.1    87.2   101.6   188.8
Physical Contingencies           16.2    11.1    27.3      2.2      3.4     5.6
Price Contingencies             21.6    26.6    48.2                        0.0
Total Project Cost             200.0   348.6   348.6    89.4   105.0   194.4
Interest during construction             41.0    41.0             26.0    26.0
Total Cost After IDC           200.0   189.6   389.6    89.4   131.0   220.4
Table SB: Project Financing
(in US$ Million)
Source              Appraisal_Estimate                 Actual
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
IBDR Loan                         130.0    130.0                114.4     114.4
Supplies Credit                    18.6      18.6                           0.0
EEB                     200.0               200.0      89.4      16.6    106.0
Total Financing         200.0    148.6    348.6        89.4    131.0    220.4



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benerits
Flow of Funds for the Program
(in tconstant 1984 US '000)
Costs                                Benefits
Purchase                Sales    Others                Net
Years   Invest-      Function       of        Total        of      Oper      Total      Flow
ments                   Energy                 Energy
1987      161,932             0          0      161,932                                (161,932)
1988      137,704        12,075     17,134      166,913    15,033   50,707    65,740,  (101,173)
1989      143,657        10,524     23,457      177,637    35,374   22,151     57,525   (120,113)
1990      192,062        15,230     28,619     235,911    41,841    20,172    62,019  (173,892)
1991      153,989        37,384     33,741     225,114    55,765   113,041    168,806   (56,309)
1992      110,365        28,453     89,631     228,449    39,966   13,306    53,272  (175.177)
1993       70,695        39,309        478      110,482    86,218  101,968    188,186     77,704
1994                     59,976     (2,844)     57,131   140,968    8,384    149,352      92,221
1995                     59,976     (2,844)     57,131   153,490              153,490     96,359
1996                     59,976     (2,844)     57,131   153,490              153,490     96,359
1997                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
1998                     59,976     (2,844)     57,131   153,490              153,490     96,359
1999                     59,976     (2,844)     57,131   153,490              153,490     96,359
2000                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2001                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2002                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2003                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2004                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2005                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2006                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2007                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2008                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2009                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2010                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2011                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2012                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2013                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2014                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2015                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2016                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2017                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2018                     59.976     (2,844)      57,131    153,490            153,490     96,359
2019                     59.976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2020                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2021                     59,976    (2,844)       57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2022                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
2023                     59,976     (2,844)      57,131   153,490             153,490     96,359
Total     970,404      1,942.243    107,733    3,020,381  4,866,38   329,730  5,196,112   2,175,731
3
VP 84     694,319       377,865    109,363    1,181,547   905.677  206.264  1,111,942   (69,606)
10.00                      B/C                    0.94       TIR                           8.9%
B/C
Rates              3.00%        1.43
of                6.00%        1.18
discount             9.00%       0.99
12.00%      0.85



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Empresa De Energia De Bogota
Compliance With The Contractual Agreements
Loan 2634-CO
Original     Revised
Agreement Section Covenant Present  fulfillment   fulfillment                     Description of covenant                     Comments
l_____   type    status       date         date
2634-CO    3.03      5        C       Jan. 1987       ---    Establish, and thereafter maintain: (i) a project coordination unit,
and (ii) a unit for purposes of planning and implementing Part F of
I_____                                             the Project in respect of the energy losses.
2634-CO    3.04      5       NC       Dec. 1990       ---    Take all measures as shall be required to reduce the losses
occurring in its distribution systems so that such losses in respect of
its total energy generation shall not exceed 14% in 1990; 13% in
l________                                                     fiscal vear 1991, 13% in 1992 and in the fiscal years thereafter.
2634-CO    4.01      13               Jan. 1987               Carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with   Partially
sound administrative, financial engineering and public utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2634-CO    5.02      2       NC       Dec. 1987               Produce, for each of its fiscal year, after its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1986, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 35% of the annual average of the Borrower's capital
expenditures, incurred for that year, the previous fiscal year and the
next fiscal year.
2634-CO    5.04      2       NC       Dec. 1987               Reduce its accounts receivable for electricity sales so that such
accounts receivable, as a percentage of Borrower's total electricity
sale for each such fiscal year, shall not exceed seventeen percent
(17%) in fiscal year 1987; and at all times thereafter, maintain such
accounts receivable at a level not exceeding seventeen percent
(17%) of its total electricity sales.
Earn, for each of its fiscal year, an annual return of not less than
12% of the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
in operation



- 22 -
Onginal      Revised
Agreement Section Covenant Present  fulfillment   fulfillment                   Description of covenant                      Comments
_   type    status    date         date
2634-CO    5.06      2       NC      Jan. 1987               Not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues
of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt services
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
2634-CO    5.08      2       NC      Dec. 1987               Make its best efforts to pay not later than December 31, 1987 and in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, all outstanding
amounts (including any arrears) owed by it to Interconexi6n
Electrica S.A. and to its contractors and pay all such amounts not
later than December 31, 1988.
Covenant types:                                                             Present status:
I      =      Accounts/ Audits                                             C       =      covenant complied with
2      =       Financial performance/revenue                                CD    =        complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries                               CP    =         complied with partially
3      =       Flow and utilization of project funds                       NC    =         not complied with
4      =       Counterpart Funding
5      =       Management aspects of the
project or executing agency
6      =       Environmental Covenants
7      =       Involuntary resettlement
8      =       Indigenous people
9      =       Monitoring, review, and reporting
10     =       Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11             Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     =       Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13     =       Other



- 23 -
Table 11: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned               Revised                Actual
Project Cycle        Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$
Through Appraisal                                                         53.3
Appraisal-Board                                                            7.7
Supervision                                                               99.6
Completion                                                                   4
Total                             _                             164.6 1
Table 12: Bank Resources; Missions
Performance
Stage of                           Specialized Staff  Rating
Project  Month  Number  Days in        Skills     Implementation
Cycle  /Year  Persons   Field      Represented        Status           Tpes of Problems
LENP        82         1       6  EGR
LENP        83         1       9 EGR
LENP        84         1       12 EGR
LENA      11/84        2      30  EGR-FNA
SPN        9/87        4       7 EGR-FNA-IAV                   1
SPN       4/88         3       7 EGR-FNA-IAV                   2 P.Mg.-Av. Fund
SPN       10/88        3      12 EGR-FNA-IAV                   2 P.Mg.-Av.Fund
SPN       4/89         2       5 EGR                           3 L.Conv-P.Mg.-Av.Fund
SPN        6/90        2       18 EGR-FNA                      3 L.Conv-P.Mg. -Av.Fund
SPN       7/91         3       10 EGR-ES-CONS                  3 L.Conv-P.Mg. -Av.Fund
SPN        2/92        2      11  ES-EGR                       4  L.Conv-P.Mg.-Av.Fund-
P.Dev.Objetives
COM        8/94        1      20  EGR                          2  L. Cov









l M A - i t; i l
Report No:           14t '27
Type: ICE



