Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4020-co
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt171 MILLION
TO
EMPRESA DE ENERCIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
November 4, 1985
This document ha a resticted distribution ad ny be used by recipients oly in the performance of
their offi  dudtes. hls contebt -y not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank autbhoriatom.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit    = Colombian Peso (Col$)
GolSl            = 100 centavos (ctv)
ColS152.06       = US$1.00 (September 1, 1985)
Cols$,000        = US$6.58 (September 1, 1985)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES ( ColS/USS)
1980          1981           1982           1983          1984
47.3          54.5           64.1           7R.9           100.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES I/
1 meter                               = 3.281 feet (ft.)
I square kilometer (km2)              = 0.386 square mile (mi2)
I cubic meter (m3)                    = 35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
I barrel (bbl)                        = n..159 cubic meter
i kilogram (kg)                       = 2.206 pounds (lb)
I ton (t)                             = 1,000 kilogram
i kilowatt (kW)                       = 1,000 watts (W)
I Joule (J)                           = I Watt. second = I Ne-;eton. meter
= 2.3988.1I-4 kcal = 9.478.1f-4 Btu
I ton oil equivalent (toe)            = 42.2.109 J
I kilowatt-hour (kWh)                 = 3.6.ln6 J
1 kilovolt (kV)                       = 1,000 Volt (V)
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)               = 1,000 Volt ampere (103 V4)
I Hertz (hz)                          = I cvcle per second
I/ The Sl (Systeme International) and its multiples are used whenever
possible in this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
k (kilo)                              - 103 (thousand)
M (Mega)                              - 106 (million)
G (Giga)                              - 109 (billion)
T (Tera)                              - 1O12 (trillion)
_              P (Peta)                              - 1015 (quadrillion)
E (Exa)                                 1018 (quintillion)
CONPES           Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social
(National Economic and Social Policy Council)
CORELCA          Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC              Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca
DNP              Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning
Department)
EAAB             Empresa de Acueductos y Alcantarillados de Bogota
EEEB             Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EMCALI           Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM              Empresas Publicas de Medellin
FEN              Financiera Electrica Nacional
(National Electricity Development Bank)
FONACE           Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
ICEL             Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
ISA              Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT              Junta Nacional de Tarifas (National Tariff Board)
KfW              Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
UNOP             United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR
.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
Guarantor:             Republ:.c of Colombia
Amount:                US$171 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project
Description:         Sectoral Objective:  The Bank's principal objective ln
the Colombian power sector is tc achic-ve greater
efficiency in the operation of t:he country's electric
utilities. The substantial ene-rgy losses prevalent
throughout the sector constitutet cone of the major
deficiencies in the current operations of these utili-
ties (EEEB's energy losses have reached almost 23X of
gross generation).  Improved subtransmission/distribu-
tion systems and theft prevention measures represent
effective methods for reducing such losses. Since
EEEB is one of the largest power utilities in
Colombia, improved efficiency in EEEB's distribution
system would have a major impact on total losses
experienced by the sector.
Project: The principal objectives of the project are
to achieve greater efficiency in EEEB's operations and
to extend electric service to a larger segment of
Bogota's population. The project consists mainly of
the 1985-90 time-slice of EEEB's distribution and
subtransmission program, including the expansion and
improvement of Bogota's network, studies to improve
EEEB's distribution and operational planning, a
training program for EEEB's staff and a program for
reducing the system's losses. Around 240,000 new
customers will be connected to the power service,
1,100 KVA in subtransmission substations will be
built, and about 10 km of 230 kV and 75 km of 115 kV
lines will be constructed, together with 350 MVA in
distribution substations and 1,000 MVA of distribution
transformer capacity and more than 1,400 km of new
primary and secondary distribution circuits.



- ii -
Risks:                  No technical risks are anticipated although timely
completion of the project will depend upon EEEB's
project management ability. Establishment of a
project coordination unit and implementation of a
training program for the Improvement of EEEB's
organization and management are expected to reduce
this risk.
Estimated Cost:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
--US$ million-
Subtransmission                              5.9       12.5      18.4
Distribution                               141.2       80.3     221.5
Maintenance and Laboratory Equipment         0.3       15.1      15.4
Training and Technical Assistance            -          2.0       2.0
Studies                                      0.8       -          0.8
Energy Losses Reduction Program              1.0        1.0       2.0
Engineering, Administration                 13.0        -        13.0
Total Base Cost                       162.2     110.9      273.1
Physical Contingency                        16.2       11.1      27.3
Price Contingency                           21.6       26.6      48.2
Total Project Cost                    200.0     148.6      348.6
Interest during Construction                 -         41.0      41.0
Total Financing Required              200.0     189.6      389.6
-  -
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
-US$ million
Suppliers' credits                           -         18.6      18.6
IBRD Loan (Project)                          -        130.0     130.0
(IDC)                             -         41.0      41.0
EEEB                                       200.0        -       200.0
Total Financing                       200.0     189.6      389.6
Disbursements:        Bank FY         86     87      88     89     90      91
(Project Only)
Annual        15.9   24.3   26.7   26.1   21.7   15.3
Cumulative   15.9   40.2   66.9   93.0  114.7  130.0
Rate of Return:   12.1%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5506-CO, dated May 28, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMEI,DATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota, with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia for the equivalent of USS171 million to help finance the Bogota
Distribution II project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directo.s in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Macroeconomic policies were also reviewed in the
President's Report (P4055-CO) for the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan of May 2, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base, integrated
and industrialized, into one that is more open. Tte growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased p.Lrticipation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies,
and many have some form of private sector participation. The country's
energy balance has been changing in recent years and the country is expected
to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and, increasingly, an exporter of
thermal coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of the Colombian authorities
for some time. Beginning in 1967 authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lower-



ing tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of
raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of
Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were successful in
relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and
employment.
B. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In the mid 1970's, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary
pressures from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased
receipts from coffee exports, together with some official surrender of
foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turnaround in the balance of
payments. Incomes rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation
accelerated. Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially
in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about 1X
of GDP during 1976-78 and, by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports. The
Government also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the official
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to increasing restraint on aggregate demand and troublesome
financial market distortions, the authorities began in lace 1979 to adjust
the program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in
early 1980 credit restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates
on certificates of deposit-and on lending therefrom-were freed from
controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authori-
ties further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy of not
expanding the subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in
excess of the resources captured from private savings for this purpose. Real
GDP growth decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6Z since 1960,
unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C.  Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and about 1% on average in 1982-83. Agricultural output was
hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use and
adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on account of depressed
aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly
in manufacturing. Unemployment reached almost 14% of the labor force at the
end of the year, up from about 7% at the end of 1981. Inflation, however,
slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and
25% in 1982.



9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and increased to
average about USS1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from
a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic factors, major
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devaluations and import
restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee
exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange reserves
declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent
to ioout six months of imports of goods and non-factor services. On the
fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with increased current
expenditures resulting from a system of automatic transfers and large infra-
structure investments in energy and transport led to growing deficits: the
overall Central Government cash deficit grew from 2.12 of GDP in 1980 to 4.1%
in 1983, while that of the consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, and expand non-coffee exports. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives
to mobilize more resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors
was expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for stabiliza-
tion in addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distor-
tions in the financial system. These efforts were insufficient to reverse
the deteriorating trends particularly in light of the tight international
capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American countries, has not had
a debt oroblen because of the high share of official debt in total debt out-
standing and the term structure of such debt. Nevertheless, the Latin
American debt problem produced a reduction in the credit lines available to
Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term loans needed to complete
ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to further declines in foreign
exchange reserves and to strains in the financial system.
11.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion; acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations, further
increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitability of the
commercial banking and to resolve the external debt problems of the private
sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second half of
1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the unemployment rate fell to 13%
of the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on
average in 1984. Merchandise exports grew at over 16% in nominal terms
compared to 1983; the current account deficit in the balance of payments was
reduced by about US$1 billion to 5% of GDP. The losses in foreign exchange
reserves, which had accelerated during the first half of 1984, were reduced
during the second half of 1984 and reserves remained at about USS1.8 billion
(four months of gncds a..d n.f.s. imports). The policies have been deepened
in 1985 and the results to date, on the whole, have beer positive. Inflation
remains under control, while economic growth has picked up modestly, although
the unemployment rate remains higher than in recent years. The balance of
payments position has been stabilizing.
D. Growth and Balance of Payments
12.       With further adjustments during 1985-86, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade are good. The current account deficit



of the balance of payments is projected to average about UJS$1.3 billion per
year during 1985-86, equivalent to about 4% of CDP. The deficit is projected
to be financed by increasing disbursements of existing and new public and
private sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this
period, net official international reserves would have been maintained at a
level of about four and a half months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP
of 2.5% during 1985-86.  Total investment will have to be maintained at over
18.5% of GDP to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large
an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to
average about 18% of GDP compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public
sector generating a significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986,
real GDP growth should resume at near historical rates, about 4.5% per year
on average. The current account deficit should also improve rapidly from
1987 on as a result of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional
exports (particularly crude petroleum and coal), declining to some 1.6% of
GDP by 1990.
13.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about US$5.6 billion
for the 1985-86 period. Net foreign investment is expected to account for
US$750 million during 1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing
energy projects. About USS3.9 billion is expected from multilateral,
bilateral and other sources, while about US$1 billion will be the new money
needed from commercial banks mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects
for export. At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
US$8.0 billion (22% of GDP). The Bank/IDA share of this external debt i.e.
excluding non-guaranteed private was 22.8% which is expected to reach less
than 25% by 1986. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and is
expected to peak at about 30% in 1987 and then decline gradually to below 30%
in 1990. The World Bank's share in M&LT public debt service (excluding non-
guaranteed private) is expected to be less than 24% during 1985-86. With
sound economic and financial management and the development of new export
activities, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART TI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The Droposed loan, the 115th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$5,005.2 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985,
US$3,758.3 million;  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 72 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent Per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84 and to US$591 million in FY85,
reflecting in part the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s and
efforts to build the pipeline. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems and to speed the initiation of



project execution have resulted in a significant increase in disbursements
during FY84 and FY85. Improving performance of social sector institutions in
the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of infla-
tionary pressures and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms,
which should improve counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting
commitments of US$144.2 million In 29 enterprises and as of September 30,
1985, it held US$67.3 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
15.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88% of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 35% were for power and transport, 16% for
industry, 18% for agriculture and irrigation, 8% for water supply, 6% for
urban development, 4% for telecommunications, 2% each for petroleum develop-
ment and export diversification, and 8% for education, nutrition and multi-
purpose projects. The diversification was indeed a desirable aim as it
helped provide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's development
problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in which the
Bank's presence can have a meaningful impact.
16.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government has focused upon the need
to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and expand exports,
to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the economy
from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and
pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the
level of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained
particularly in the power sector, where power rates were increased sharply
and a least-cost expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have
been achieved in respect of some other public services, including anpropriate
charges for water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
17.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to increase
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy through lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect -he emphasis on: (i)
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) supporting quick-yielding infra-
structure investments, particularly those that enable the use of existing
facilities more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource mobilization.



- 6 -
18.       The Bank's tending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification totalling
US$707.5 million. The Trade Policy Project is designed to support the first
phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia. Besides the already approved
public health and port rehabilitation projects, work is underway on projects
for water supply and sewerage, irrigation rehabilitation, agricultural tech-
nology transfer, and financial sector management. In infrastructure, the
Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more intensive use of
the existing facilities in ports rehabilitation, water supply and rural
feeder roads. Finally, several projects in preparation will also support the
Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the population. Proposed
lending for further rural development, agricultural credit, and water supply
and waste, will help improve the standard of living of the poor, while being
designed to make better use of existing capacity and reduce losses.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to decline
further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the eighties.
IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in addition to
those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform,
university education, water supply, rural electrification and land erosion
control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the lower-income
population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in developing
sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector activities to
help generate increased capacity utilization and employment. USAID has
supported programs in education, rural development and small farm develop-
ment, but is phasing out its program in Colombia. The Governments of Canada,
the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided
concessional financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Policies
20.       Colombia is rich in energy resources, particularly in hydroelec-
tricity and coal. Its reserves of oil and natural gas are modest by interna-
tional standards, yet significant at the national level. The country's
recoverable coal reserves are estimated at 16 billion tons (441.6 EJ) and its
hydropower potential, at 100 GW, is capable of yielding about 440 TWh (4.62
EJ) per year (231 EJ over 50 years). Compared to this, gas reserves are only
4.07 trillion cubic feet (5.1 EJ) and oil reserves are 734 million barrels
(4.3 EJ). As regards the latter, on the basis of recent success encountered
by Occidental Petroleum in its oil exploration in the Llanos area, prelimi-
nary estimates now suggest that Colombia's oil pred_ction will exceed its
internal consumption in the near future.



- 7 -
Estimated Recoverable Reserves and Production (1983)
Reserves             Production       Reserves/Prod
EJ    Mtoe    (Z)    GJ      Mtoe   (X)       (years)
Hydroelectricity   231.0   5,475    33.9   160        3.8   21.4   Renewable
Coal                441.6  10,466    64.7    96       2.3   12.9     4,550
Natural Gas           5.L     121      0.8   167     4.0   22.5          30.3
Crude Petroleum       4.3     102      0.6   322     7.7   43.2          13.2
682.0  16,164   100.0   745    17.8  100.0
As the table above shows, there is an imbalance between reserves and produc-
tion for different sources of energy.  For example, the huge reserves of
hydroelectricity and coal account for only 21.4% and 12.9% respectively of
annual production while the rather modest gas and oil reserves contribute
22.5% and 43.2% respectively to annual production. Current consumption of
commercial energy relies primarily upon oil products (41%) and less on gas
(17%), coal (15%) and electricity (27%). The table below shows the distribu-
tion of this consumption by sector.
Energy Consumption (1983)
Sector                         GJ            Mtoe          %
Transport                     230             5.5          27
Residential/Commercial         84             2.0          10
Industry                      242             5.8          28
Electric Sector               280             6.7          31
Other                          38             0.9           4
Total                    874            20.9         100
21.       Colombia traditionally enjoyed a positive trade balance in energy
because of its relatively rich energy endowment and modest yearly per capita
consumption which, at about 0.7 ton of oil equivalent, is below average for
middle-income developing countries. However, in 1976 the country became a
net importer of energy, and by 1981 the (net) cost of oil imports reached
almost USS400 million. This came about because of a decline in total domes-
tic energy production, resulting from a 7% annual fall in oil output between
1970 and 1979. As this situation was threatening to compromise balance of
payments prospects, the Government moved in the late 1970s to redress the
negative energy trade balance through: (i) pricing measures designed to
increase the overall cost of energy to consumers, change relative prices to
encourage consumers to move away from oil, and provide incentives to
producers; and (ii) direct public sector investment and improved incentives
for private sector investment in the energy field, particularly for petroleum
exploration and secondary petroleum production, hydroelectricity and coal.



- 8 -
As a result, since 1980, the previous trend has been reversed: petroleum
production has increased, GDP has grown faster than aggregate energy consump-
tion, and petroleum's share of total primary energy consumption has fallen
while that of hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas has increased.
22.       In Colombia, electricity, petroleum and natural gas prices are set
by the Government; coal prices are market-set. The price levels for petro-
leum products are close to international prices, while natural gas prices
have been maintained at relatively low levels as a financial incentive for
consumption. The development of an integrated energy investment program and
adecuate incentives for each subsector will depend on the availability of
reliable information regarding the investment requirements of different
energy sources, particularly coal. To this end, the Government has under-
taken a major effort to improve sector knowledge through a National Energy
Study (ENE). Its first stage was carried out during 1979-82 by the National
Planning Department (DNP) with the help of local consultants and technical
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany. This study provides signif-
icant information needed for energy planning, including a preliminary evalua-
tion of energy demand growth and investments that could best serve such
growth.
23.       A second stage of the ENE, consisting of several specialized
studies, is almost completel/. This current effort has elicited consider-
able foreign technical assistance from official sources. The Federal
Republic of Germany is providing assistance on modeling and data gathering,
France on industrial energy savings, Italy on energy studies for isolated
regions, the Organization of American States (OAS) on energy use in transpor-
tation and the European Economic Community on industrial uses of energy.
Several energy sector agencies provide counterpart staff and DNP coordinates
the external assistance.   The third phase of the study, concerned with
energy strategy formulation, is about to start. Work in this phase will be
focused on identification and comparison of the costs and benefits of devel-
oping each of the country's energy resources. Once such work has been
completed, selection among alternative energy sources will be possible and a
long-term strategy for development of Colombia's energy resources can be
formulated. Recently, DNP and the Ministry of Mines and En'rgy asked that
the Bank assist in its review of these studies and in the formulation of a
strategy for the energy sector. These tasks are accorded high priority in
the context of the Bank's country and economic sector work for Colombia and
funding for some studies are being envisaged under ESNAP.
Sector Financing
24.       Over the past five years, Colombia has been successful in mobi-
lizing external resources to finance energy development. This has been
achieved through direct foreign investment (in oil and gas first and lately
in coal) and external loans to the energy agencies, including power compa-
nies. However, the current conditions in the international lending markets
are making external financing more difficult to obtain. Local financing
I/ Among others, studies on natural gas available for ammonia-urea fertilizer
production and coal exploration studies to assess the economic potential
of several promising areas in the Atlantic and Central Regions.



- 9 -
requirements are covered primarily by internally generated resources and
Government contributions, with the incipient local capital market tradi-
tionally providing only a marginal share of financing.
25.       The establishment in 1982 of a financial institution for the power
sector (Financiera Electrica Nacional-FEN) designed to mobilize domestic as
well as foreign funds for the sector's utilities has increased the
contribution of the domestic capital market to the sector's financing and
enabled the sector to maintain a presence in the increasingly cautious
international capital markets. Despite its recent creation, FEN has become
one of the largest financial institutions in the country. It has already
recorded notable success in the domestic market and served as the borrowing
agency for a major power development finance loan from the Bank (2401-CO) and
various cofinanciers. By going to capital markets on behalf of the
consolidated power sector, FEN has mobilized resources which the individual
utilities would not otherwise have been able to access and this institution
promises to make a substantial contribution to the alleviation of the
financial constraints currently confronting the sector. As regards more
traditional sources of local cost financing, in order to increase internal
resource mobilization by the main energy sector agencies, prices charged to
consumers of petroleum products and electricity have been increased
significantly in real terms. Furthermore, in 1980, the Government created
the National Coal Fund (FNC) which receives revenue from a tax on coal
production valued at the mine-head. This revenue is currently allocated to
finance coal exploration (80%) and to assist small and medium-scale coal
mining operations (20%).
Institutional Arrangements in the Power Sector
26.       Sector Organization.  At present, public electricity services
are provided by:
(a) municipally-owned companies, of which the largest are EEEB (in
Bogota), EPM (in Medellin) and EMCALI (in Cali);
(b) national enterprises whose principal purpose is the distribution of
power to particular regions (ICEL, CVC and CORELCA); and
(c) a generating and transmission company (ISA).
27.       Through the 1950s, a large number of power companies were set up by
local governmental authorities and, lacking interconnection with each other,
were operated independently. Less than 20 years ago, the country's total
electricity capacity stood at a mere 1,681 MW (equivalent to about 88 watts
per inhabitant) and reached only about 35% of the povulation. Although large
hydropower sites held the potential of increasing substantially the supply of
electricity at lower cost than otherwise possible, they were too big to be
tapped by any one company. With encouragement from the Bank, the Government
persuaded the regional power companies to break with tradition and pool their
resources in a shared effort to plan and develop the country's large hydro-
electric potential. To accomplish this, Interconexion Electrica S.A. (ISA)
was created as an independent, national generation and interconnection
company, whose shareholders now include all the largest municipal power
utilities and the Government-owned power companies. By 1984 Colombia's



- 10 -
installed capacity had climbed to 5,049 MW - more than triple the pre-ISA
level - and reached 54% of the population. The successful execution of a
series of major power generation Projects had produced an experienced and
highly-regarded local engineering/construction industry and the planning
methodologies employed in the sector had achieved an enviable level of
sophistication.
28.       In addition to its planning and plant construction functions, ISA
operates the interconnected power system. Though adequately staffed and
technically capable, ISA is burdened with a slow and complicated decision-
making process. Its shareholders (EEEB, EPM, CORELCA, ICEL and CVC) are
inclined to allow their regional and sometimes conflicting interests to take
precedence over national goals. Furthermore, the financial constraints that
most of the companies are facing have caused them to reduce their contribu-
tions to ISA. The resulting arrears had reached about US$170 million equiv-
alent by end-1984. In an effort to advance national interests in ISA, the
Government has strengthened its representation on ISA's Board. In addition,
the Government intends to penalize the companies that have debts to ISA, by
impeding their access to FEN loans.
29.       Several other actions have been taken by the Government to improve
the sector's institutional structure and hence its prospects for efficient
growth. It established the National Tariff Board (JNT) in DNP to approve
requests from the power companies for tariff increases; and it has fostered
the consolidation of numerous small utilities, particularly in the North
Atlantic Region. The Government has also recognized the constraint on sound
sector development and finance represented by the current organization of
ICEL--a holding company which groups together twelve largely rural-based
utilities (electrificadoras)-and it has explicitly confirmed the need to
restructure the ICEL group.
30.       As the discussion above suggests, the current sector organization
does not provide for particularly effective operations. The sector lacks a
central authority to enforce planning and tariff decisions, based on a
national plan. The decision-making process is tortuous and slow, and
dependent on negotiations between the central government, the utilities and
the local governments. The current resource constraints have highlighted the
need for change, but the importance of the power sector in the country's
economy, its suhstantial share in Colombia's foreign indebtedness (25Z of the
public foreign debt) and the magnitude of its investment program clearly
require that any improvements in the sector's institutional organization
should only be adopted in the context of a thorough review of overall
sectoral Policy. The Government recognizes this and has requested that the
Bank assist in carrying out such a review. To this end, the Bank has been
supporting efforts by both the Government and ISA to develop and monitor
sector-wide financial projections, more flexible investment plans and other
data. Acknowledging the long-standing and deeply entrenched tradition of
regional autonomy that underlies the sector's existing organizational struc-
ture, the Government and the Bank approached the institutional problems
through a workshop this June that marshalled the skills and resources of
those familiar with the sector to consider the objectives of the power sector
and strategies that might achieve them. The outcome of this workshop led to
a number of recommendations that are being further studied by the Government
and the Bank.



- 11 -
31.       Planning and Coordination.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy is
charged with formulating national policy for the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity, including coordination and supervision of power
sector planning. It shares with the National Social and Economic Policy
Council (CONPES), DNP and ISA the responsibility for defining investment
priorities. ISA defines a generation and transmission expansion program for
the interconnected system; after approval by the Ministry, DNP and CONPES,
this becomes the National Power Expansion Program. The Program is reviewed
annually by ISA and revisions, if necessary, are proposed. On the basis of
requests from the companies, JNT approves rate increases. Although the
Government cannot enforce its policies directly with the municipally-
controlled power companies, ISA is intended to provide a mechanism for
reaching agreement on major issues affecting the sector. Sector planning and
coordination have improved markedly since ISA's creation and Bank lending has
strongly supported this evolution; although, as was mentioned above (paras.
28-30), some further improvements in the sector's institutional arrangements
will have to be implemented before the planning, pricing and coordination
system can function satisfactorily.
32.       Least-Cost Power Development Program.  Colombia's economic growth
was affected by the world-wide economic recession from 1981-83. Taking
account of the consequent slowing of electricity demand growth, on May 16,
1983, CONPES approved a revised National Power Expansion Program for plants
entering into service during 1987-96. In October 1984, ISA presented the
latest revised Program with a two-year deferment of all major future
projects. The plan is based upon a gradual and phased resumption during
1985-2000 of the long-term average annual economic growth rate of about 5%
achieved from 1965-80; estimated fuel prices; and a projection of 6.5% growth
in average gross annual electricity consumption during the 15-year period
from 1985-2000. To ensure that significant variations in demand are suitably
taken into account, ISA together with the Government (as provided under Loan
2401-CO), will continue to review and update the Program. The Bank is
currently reviewing with DNP and ISA the financial implications of this
revised investppnt Program:
33.       In support of ISA's efforts to strengthen its planning methodology,
a UNDP-financed study, for which the Bank acted as the executing agency, was
completed by end-1984. The study was devoted to the refinement of ISA's
existing planning models. Another UNDP and Bank-financed study providing
assistance in construction management is now underway and it is anticipated
that its benefits will extend, through ISA, to its shareholders as well.
Power Market and Supply
34.       Electric power has become the fastest-growing form of energy use in
Colombia. Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 6.5% in 1970
to 27% in 1983. Generation increased by an average of about 10% annually
during 1970-1980, although it has slowed over the last years to 5.8% per
annum in 1980-83. Effective installed capacity at the end of that year was
5,049 MW, including self-producers, with public entities accounting for 95%
of the total installed capacity and generation. Peak demand was about 4,530
MW, and total electrical energy generation in 1983 amounted to 22.7 TWh.
Hydroelectric plants accounted for about 65% of the total electricity
generated.



- 12 -
35.       About 54% of Colombia's 27.5 million population has electric nower,
compared to 26% in 1950 and 45% in 1970. The urban population, comprising
about 65% of the population, has greater access. In 1976, for example, 90%
of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had electrical
service while in rural towns (population between 500 and 2,500) the corre-
sponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 16%. Various programs,
including the Bank-financed First and Second Integrated Rural Development
Projects and the Village Electrification Project as well as programs financed
by I10, Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the Colombia Coffee Growers
Association, are aimed at increasing rural coverage. In 1983 there were
about 3.3 million electricity subscribers of which 89.9% were residential and
7.7% commercial. Residential consumption accounted for 48.6% of 1983
electricity sales (which totalled 17.4 TWh) and industrial consumption
accounted for 28.2%. EEEB generated 17% of the total electricity supplv, EPM
22%, CORELCA 20%, CVC and ICEL 20%, ISA 19%, and others the remaining 2%.
36.       During 1978-1983, gross production of electricitv increased at an
average annual rate of about 7.3% compared with a CNP growth rate of 4.3%.
However, sales increased at an annual average rate of only about 6.0% because
energy losses increased from 18.4% in 1978 to 22.6% in 1983. Approximately
half of these losses are technical (network) losses in the distribution
system, while the remainder are thefts. A portion of the energy thefts can
be traced to large consumers but theft by squatters tapping into lines is
also presumed to be substantial in some areas. Tn 1984, a joint DNP/ISA
committee was established to study the issue of energy losses and to recom-
mend solutions for the problem. In addition, the proposed project is
designed to assist EEEB in reducing both technical losses and theft (para.
43(f)).
Recent Developments
37.       By the early 1980's, Colombia had already embarked upon an
extensive investment program for the power sector, concentrated primarily on
several large-scale generation projects requiring substantial long-term
financial commitments. Since then, the availability of both external and
domestic financing has been severely reduced (paras. 9 and 10) and the
stabilization of Colombia's external and fiscal balances has become one of
the most urgent issues facing the country at this time. As a consequence of
the power sector's substantial share in both Colombia's anticiDated invest-
ment requirements (28% of total public investment) and its foreign indebted-
ness (over 25Z of public sector foreign debt), the sector has also been
obliged to shoulder its share of the burdens imposed by the resource
constraints that confront the country. Specifically, during the past three
years, the sector has suffered from financial problems caused by the
rationing and insufficient availability of financing and by delays in rate
adjustments, compounded by slower than anticipated demand growth. Local
borrowings needed by the sector have outpaced the domestic banking system's
lending capability. Various shareholders lacked funds to pay fully for the
electricity supplied to them by ISA and their share in the cost of ISA's
development program. As a consequence, ISA has fallen behind in its
contractual payments to suppliers and contractors and this, in turn, has
caused construction delays. In addition to similar problems, CORELCA and
ICEL have not received their budgeted Government contributions on schedule.
Moreover, the sector has suffered because Government-related lending has been



- 13 -
held back and the financing of local costs with external borrowings
authorized only on a highly selective basis.
38.       The developments described above, combined with the 1982 civil
disturbances reflecting consumer discontent with Increased electricity
charges and the quality of service, have led the Government to review the
investment program and the financing plan for the sector. Through the
exercise of redefining the sectoral financing program, the Government has
focused increasingly on the macroeconomic and institutional implications of
the 1984-90 power investment program. In May 1983, it reviewed in detail the
justification for, and financial feasibility of, all new investments in the
aforementioned program, taking account of competing demands from other
priority sectors, and in December 1984, decided to reduce by about one-half
the previously planned annual capital outlays for tl'e sector. In the context
of the Government's overall review of its policies for the sector, both ISA
and the Government will continue to monitor the current investment program to
ensure that it remains consistent with the evolving sectoral strategy.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
39.       The Bank has made 29 loans since 1950 for the Colombian power
sector, totalling US$1,739 million. Several OED reports have found previous
Bank lending to the sector to have been generally successful. One of these
reports "Power Interconnection (575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979) commented upon the Bank's
participation in Colombia's efforts to evolve a stronger and more efficient
power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA, in conjunction with
these projects and the steps taken to overcome financial and institutional
difficulties, progress was made toward more coordinated sector development.
Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both projects were
successfully executed. In the past, the bulk of Bank lending for power was
devoted to the expansion of Colombia's generating/transmission capacity.
While Bank-financed power projects have often contained distribution
components, the initial Bogota Distribution Project (Loan 1807-CO, 1980) was
the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively distribution
expansion. In continuing the efforts initiated through that first distribu-
tion project (and expanded in subsequent rural electrification projects), the
Bank will be reaffirming the importance of a smoothly functioning distribu-
tion system for the efficient utilization of Colombia's existing generation
capacity. Broadly stated, the Bank's objectives for the power sector are:
(a) to achieve greater efficiency in the operation of Colombia's electric
utilities; (b) to improve resource mobilization for the sector as a whole;
and (c) to improve the sector's institutional arrangements. Until recently,
the Bank sought to promote development of sector-wide strategies for the
power sector by addressing these broad sectoral issues in the context of
lending operations with individual utilities. This lending strategy has,
however, been evolving toward a greater focus on sectoral lending.
Reflecting this evolution, the Bank has oriented its most recent efforts
towards the establishment of a sector-wide financing facility (FEN) and plans
to extend these efforts through a future power sector loan, to be channelled
through FEN.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The Project was prepared by EEEB, with the assistance of consul-
tants, and appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in November
1984. Negotiations were held in Colombia during the week of April 28, 1985
with a Colombian delegation led by Mr. L. Avella, Deputy Manager of EEEB.
Further background on the project is contained in Annex III. Loan documents
were approved by the authorities on November 1, 1985. A Staff Appraisal
Report is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
EEEB's Expansion Program
41.       By 1990, EEEB's system will have to be expanded to serve about
940,000 customers with a peak load of 1,470 MW and an annual energy demand of
about 7,900 GWh. This will mean an increase of 240,000 customers, 410 MW and
2,200 GWih from estimated 1984 levels. The 1985-1990 expansion program
designed by EEEB to meet these requirements .s well-balanced, with appro-
priate emphasis given to generating plants, subtransmission facilities and
both rural and urban distribution. The generation expansion plan is very
ambitious and represents the largest investment of EEEB's expansion program
(60%). It includes construction of two major hydroelectric plants-Mesitas
(600 MW) and Guavio (1.000 KW)-both with the Bank's financial support; and
acquisition of two thermal plants--Zipa IV and V (132 MW) from ISA. The
distribution expansion program is an indispensable complement to this genera-
tion expansion, as the efficient delivery of generated electricity depends
heavily on the quality and reliability of the distribution network. The
distribution program consists of the final stages of the Bogota Distribution
I Project, which included EEEB's 1979-1985 subtransmission and distribution
program (partially financed by the Bank's Loan 1807-CO), the proposed
project, and a rural electrification program for the area surrounding Bogota,
partially financed by KfW and for which EEEB will seek the Bank's participa-
tion. One further component of EEEB's expansion program is a control center
to be completed by mid-1988 and financed by the Bank under the Guavio Loan
(No. 2008-CO). The investment program necessary to carry out this expansion
program, with provision for future expansion which may be needed after 1991,
is summarized below:
EEEB's 1985-1990 Investment Program
(millions of current US$)
Foreign          Local        Total
Generation                                   478.9          447.3         926.2
Distribution
Urban                                     169.4          210.3         379.7
Rural                                      51.4           67.5         118.9
Control Center, Gen. Plant                    28.8           10.5          39.3
Future Investments                           347.9          403.4         751.3
Studies                                        -             27.1          27.1
Total                                   1,076.4        1,166.1       2,242.5



- 15 -
The Plo ect
42.       Objectives and Strategies.  The project proposed for Bank financing
consists of EEEB's 1985-1990 program for the expansion and improvement of its
subtransmission and distribution system and modernization of the existing
system for the urban areas. This project, which builds on the first Bogota
Distribution Project (1979-1985), is a major component of EEEB's 1985-1990
expansion program. The main objectives of the proposed project are to
achieve greater efficiency in EEEB's operations and to extend electric
service to a larger segment of Bogota's population. The strategy chosen to
achieve these objectives involves: (a) enhancement of the benefits derived
from EEEB's investments in generation and transmission by ensuring efficient
delivery of generated power; and (b) reduction of energy losses (both tech-
nical losses and theft). The project will implement this strategy through
investments in the subtransmission and distribution system and by strength-
ening EEEB's organizational structure, technical and managerial capabilities,
and financial position.
43.       Description.  The project consists primarily of the following
physical investments:
(a) Subtransmission: Installation of substation capacity and lines
needed to connect existing plants and substations to the proposed
distribution system;
(b) Distribution: Installation of distribution substation capacity;
line extensions and improvements; installation of and improvements
to secondary circuits; installation of distribution transformer
capacity, voltage regulators, capacitors, meters and public
lighting. This component has been designed both to extend service
to 240,000 new customers and to improve the existing system.
Circuits to be improved have reached the end of their economic life
and suffer from high losses and frequent outages. Improving these
circuits will reduce energy losses while  m.proving the quality and
reliability of service to all customers, including current low-
income urban consumers. Addition of voltage regulators and
capacitors will also improve service; and the acquisition of meters
and meter-testing equipment will permit the extension of service to
new customers and reduce thefts by equipping EEEB to connect
currently illegal customers to its normal service;
(c) acquisition of maintenance equipment for substations, lines and hot
lines; and laboratory equipment for testing low, medium and high
voltage equipment;
In addition, the project includes the following institutional development
measures:
(d) consulting engineering services to improve EEEB's distribution and
operations planning, with particular emphasis on energy loss
reduction through: (i) an evaluation of illegal customers by type
and location; (ii) studies on: (1) distribution system reliability;



- 16 -
(2) subtransmission system operation; and (iii) losses control
systematization.
(e) a training and technical assistance component (building on a
program financed under Bank Loan 2008-CO) consisting of a training
program for managers and professional staff to improve management,
strategic planning and technical skills.
(f)  a program for reduction of energy losses.  This is a particularly
important feature of the project (see para. 51). While technical
losses will be reduced by the subtransmission expansion and dis-
tribution improvements described in sections (a) and (b) above,
EEEB will also assign an administrative unit to take charge of
planning and implementing actions to reduce energy thefts. This
unit will also monitor EEEB's progress in reaching target levels
for loss reduction. The establishment of thts unit is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The agreed target levels
for losses, including both theft and technical losses, decline
gradually from 23% of total generation in 1984 to 13% in 1990.
44.       Project Cost and Financing.  The estimated cost of the project is
US$389.6 million (inclusive of $41 million for interest during construction)
of which US$189.6 million is expected to be in foreign exchange. The cost
estimates are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary (page ii of this
report). These costs do not include any direct taxes or duties since EEEB is
exempt from such obligations. They do, however, include the indirect taxes
that EEEB's contractors will have to pay. Because of the substantial
divergence between local and foreign inflation, different estimated inflation
rates have been applied to local costs (in Colombian pesos) and to foreign
costs (in US dollars) in order to arrive at the cost estimates. Colombian
peso amounts were then converted into US dollars using forecasted exchange
rates for each year. The proposed Bank loan of US$171 million would finance
90% of the foreign exchange costs of the project and 44% of total project
cost. A further US$18.6 million equivalent (5% of total costs) would be
sought through suppliers' credits and the remaining US$200 million (51%)
would be financed by EEEB. The proposed Bank loan would include the
financing of the Bank's interest and commitment charges accrued during the
construction period. This is warranted in view of the foreign exchange
constraints currently facing Colombia; EEEB's own inability to generate
foreign exchange; and the considerable size of Bank support for EEEB's
capital development program, when compared with the size of the borrower's
fixed assets in operation..
The Borrower
45.       The proposed Borrower, Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB), is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of the Special
District of Bogota. Established by private Colombian interests, EEEB has
operated the city's elecrtLc service for the past 85 years since 1951 under
municipal ownership. It has an installed capacity of 1,288 MW, of which
1,151 MW is hydro and the balance coal-fired thermal. EEEB served about
700,000 subscribers at the beginning of 1985.



- 17 -
46.       EEEB is directed and administered by a seven-member Board of
Directors headed by the Mayor of Bogota. Two members are elected by the
Municipal Council, three are chosen by the Council from lists submitted by
associations representative of banks, commerce, and industry in Bogota, and
one is chosen by the President of Colombia. This composition was worked out
in connection with the Bank's initial loan to EEEB (246-Ca) and has generally
proven to be satisfactory. Management of EEEB is entrusted to a General
Manager (appointed by the Board) assisted by four Deputy Managers,
responsible for: (a) Administration and Supplies; (b) Finance; (c) Technical
Functions; and (d) Operations. The General Manager is also supported by two
staff units: a Planning Division and a Legal Division. At the top level,
the company has had a competent and stable management during most of its
association with the Bank and the majority of both senior and mid-level
management staff are young (under 40), dynamic and able. The organization of
EEEB's almost 3,400 employees into a plethora of administrative units--
roughly 270 divisions, departments and sections-has led in some cases to a
lack of communication and coordination among the units. This, combined with
the need to adapt the company's technical and operational structures to
handle construction of both a major hydroelectrical plant and an extensive
distribution program has spurred EEEB to undertake a program, partially
financed by the Bank (Loan 2008-CO), to improve the performance of the
company, including its organization, planning and operational practices. In
this regard, the recommendations of a study on managerial, budgeting and
accounting systems, prepared by management consultants, were implemented by
EEEB in the course of 1983/84 and consultants have been selected for the
training and technical assistance component of this Performance improvement
program. The proposed loan will finance part of the costs of this ongoing
training effort (see para. 49).
47.       Prior Bank Lending to EEEB.  The Bank has made six loans, totalling
US$615.6 million, to EEEB. The works financed by the first three loans (all
of which were made in the 1960s) were completed successfully, although with
delays ranging from one and a half to three years. More recently, disburse-
ments on the fourth loan (Mesitas - 1628-CO) were delayed by two years and
the project was completed with a cost overrun of around US$150 million (55%
higher than the initial estimate) as a result of a combination of factors
including geological problems encountered in tunnel excavation; financial
difficulties experienced by EEEB as a result of reduced power sales following
a severe drought; and the bankruptcy of a major civil works contractor. The
fifth loan (Bogota Distribution - 1807-CO), which financed the project on
which the proposed operation is modelled, is being disbursed with two years
delay but no cost increase. The delay was due primarily to a lack of coordi-
nation between the various units within EEEB responsible for the diverse
activities included in this type of project. Steps hare been taken in
designing the proposed project to improve EEEB's coordination capability (see
para. 48).
48.       Implementation.  EEEB's usual practice is to use local engineering
firms to assist its staff as needed for detailed design, procurement, and
supervision of construction; this practice would also be followed for the
project. As EEEB has already completed basic distribution studies and design
standards, participation of local firms will be restricted to some comple-
mentary designs and supervision of construction. Most of the construction
would be performed by local contractors, including 230-kV and 115-kV substa-



- 18 -
tions, 115-kV lines and primary distribution circuits. EEEB, like most utili-
ties in Colombia, does not maintain a staff to implement and supervise large
construction projects. However, the distribtition expansion being undertaken
involves many inter-related activities such as procurement, design, material
inventory, management of construction and consultants contracts. At this
moment, there is a certain lack of coordination among the units dealing with
these activities. It is, therefore, critical that a unit with experienced
staff be created to monitor and coordinate all the project-related distribu-
tion activities in EEEB. Such a unit should be headed by individuals posses-
sing proven coordination skills in order to ensure that the distribution
expansion is executed as planned.  This unit has already been established and
is now being staffed. As a condition of effectiveness, EEEB has agreed to
employ staff in the unit with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank.
49.       Institutional Development - Training and Technical Assistance
Component. The project includes measures designed to improve the company's
ability to handle the demands of a rapidly expanding distribution and genera-
tion network and to adapt more effectively to a changing external environ-
ment. This component consists of:
(i) Technical assistance for management training to facilitate
improvements in EEEB's organization, managerial skills, technical and opera-
tional planning, system operation, human resources management and existing
internal training unit. This training program grew out of and Is closely
integrated with technical assistance financed under the Guiavio project (Loan
2008-CO). The Bank's share in this management training program is expected
to total US$1.4 million, of which US$.6 million is being financed under the
Guavio loan and a further US$.8 million under the proposed loan. EEEB has
already selected consultants to assist them in the training program which, as
currently designed, uses a participatory training method to involve EEEB's
staff fully in the assessment of the existing organizational constraints and
in the formulation of measures for the improvement of the utility's organiza-
tion and management. During negotiations, EEEB agreed to submit for Bank
approval by December 30, 1985 the detailed plan for the implementation of
this training program, and to employ the consultants for the program by March
31, 1985.
(ii) Specialized courses for professional staff. Training for
EEEB's staff of competent professionals is being provided both in Colombia
and abroad. However, foreign exchange constraints have prevented EEES's
administrators and engineers from benefitting from many courses, seminars and
fellowships available outside the country. Since several of these foreign
training opportunities offer exposure to technological advancements and tech-
nical specializations not yet available in Colombia, the proposed loan will
finance the foreign component of the training program-about $1.0 million for
five years. The following subjects will be covered in the courses offered
through the training program: (a) Planning (optimum planning for distribu-
tion systems, load management and energy conservation, reliability and
marginal costs for generation and distribution systems); (b) Engineering
(protection, digital control and supervisory systems, load-flow management);
(c) Distribution system operation (dispatch centers management and operation,
optimization of urban distribution network operation, telecommunications);
(d) Finance and Management (advanced finance and economics, advanced manage-



- 19 -
ment, development of information mystem.). The program will provide courses
for about 15 staff members per year from 1986 to 1990.  Participants will be
selected by EEEB in the context of its overall staff development program.
50.       EEEB's Market/Energy Losses.  EEBB's service area includes the
District of Bogota and the areas of influence of more than 55 municipalities
within the nearby departments of Cundinamarca and Meta in the central zone.
EEEB's estimate of its service area's population is 5.5 million, about 20% of
the total population of Colombia. The service area accounted for about 24%
of the national gross electric energy requirements in 1983. As a consequence
of the general economic recession in Colombia, growth in power demand in
EEEB's service area has slowed over the past five years from an average
annual rate of 9.7% during 1973-1978 to only 5.7% for the period from 1978-
1983. Industrial and commercial consumption were the most affected by the
recession and their market share decreased substantially, while that of
residential consumption increased commensurately, due mainly to the continued
growth of the city of Bogota throughout the period.
51.       EEEB's energy losses increased dramatically from 1978-83, rising
from 16% to 23% of gross generation. Although the investments in the
company's distribution system initiated under the first Bogota Distribution
Project were effective in containing some technical losses, that project was
devoted primarily to the expansion of the system and improvements in the
quality of service and was not specifically designed to control energy
losses. At the time the first project was undertaken, EEEB's system was
substantially smaller than at present and energy losses were still considered
to be within an acceptable range. However, the rapid growth in the size of
the company's generation and distribution capacity since then has engendered
a steady increase in energy losses--a sizable proportion of which can
probably be traced to increasing energy theft. Energy losses result from a
combination of factors whose relati've importance is rather difficult to
measure. These include: (i) deterioration of the existing distribution
circuits; (ii) increased circuit loads and losses because of larger consumer
demand; (iii) lack of means to detect and to control energy thefts; and (iv)
urban squatters illegally connected to the distribution system. A specific
program to deal with the problem of energy losses is included in the proposed
project.
52.       EEEB forecasts that demand for its production will continue to grow
at approximately 5.7% per year for the period 1985-1990, basing its projec-
tions on the ISA forecasts described in paragraphs 37 and 38. The company's
billings, however, are expected to grow faster than demand, achieving an
average annual rate of 8.2%, as a result of the introduction of the proposed
project's energy theft reduction program. Industrial and commercial
consumers are expected to increase their share of the market since the
forecasted GNP growth is based mainly on substantial growth in GIP (Gross
Industrial Product), while residential consumption will continue to grow at
about the same rate as during the 1978-1983 period. The number of consumers
is expected to increase by about 5.0% per year, a slightly lower rate than
the historical trend over the past five years (5.9%). This 5% takes into
account not only the continuing expansionary trend of the city and the incor-
poration of the current illegal consumers, but also the progressive market
saturation. Losses are expected to decrease from 22% in 1985 to 13% in 1990,
as a result of the planned improvements in existing circuits and actions to
be taken to prevent thefts.



- 20 -
53.       EEEB's Finances.  (a) Past Trends:  Throughout its 25-year rela-
tionship with the Bank, EEEB has maintained a reasonably sound financial
position. As a result of extra-fiscal measures taken under previous Bank
loans, its financial structure has been steadily strengthened. EEEB's aver-
age tariff rate has increased at an average rate of 13% per year since 1976.
In past (during the period from 1969-1978), its internal cash generation
covered more than 50% of EEEB's average annual investment requirements,
including substantial contributions to ISA.
54.       (b) Recent Developments:  Since 1979, however, EEEB's financial
situation has been adversely affected by several factors, not all of which
were within the company's control. First, delays were encountered in obtain-
ing Government authorization for tariff increases in 1980 and 1981.
Secondly, the lack of local financing for EEEB's rapidly expanding investment
requirements in the early 1980s--mainly for the Guavio and Mesitas projects--
resulted in a deficit of COL$3.4 billion (US$62 million) which EEEB has
financed through arrears in its payments to ISA and to contractors. Thirdly,
the percentage of unpaid bills in relation to the company's total annual
sales showed a regressive tendency in 1979 and 1980 and these arrears further
exacerbated the existing cash problems. Finally, in 1981 a rationing of
power occurred in the interconnected Colombian system due to poor hydro-
logical conditions and, as a consequence, EEEB's sales were approximately
US$40 million below the expected level. While the tariff situation improved
in 1983 and 1984 and borrowings from both local and external sources have
covered some of EEEB's most pressing financial needs, by the end of 1983 EEEB
still had accounts payable of COL$8.3 billion (US$93 million equivalent),
consisting primarily of arrears to contractors (Guavio and Mesitas projects)
and to ISA (EEEB's share in energy purchases and in ISA projects). The
recent devaluation of the peso promises to aggravate EEEB's financial
problems futher, and could force the company to reduce or delay its invest-
ment program and adopt measures to improve its efficiency. On a more
positive note, the establishment of Financiera Electrica Nacional (FEN) will
enable EEEB to obtain some of the additional long-term local currency funds
needed to sustain its investment program.
55.       Tariff Structure.  There are, of course, limits to the rate at
which tariffs can be raised. EEEB's tariff has, nonetheless, improved
significantly in the last few years without apparent negative repercussions.
Although rate increases from 1976-83 did not keep pace with inflation, EEEB's
tariffs did increase at an average rate of 131 per year during that period
and, in 1984 the company's average tariffs increased by about 32%, a rate
well above the actual inflation rate of approximately 18%. At the end of
1984 EEEB's average rate (at Col$6.17/kWh) was among the highest in
Colombia. The tariff structure, however, lacks appropriate balance among
major categories of consumers and the tariff increases of recent years have
served to accentuate this imbalance. EEEB will need to take action to
correct this situation. The Government issued a Decree (No. 2545) on
October 12, 1984 which established a new and nationally valid tariff struc-
ture which, if adopted, would remedy the imbalances in EEEB's tariff struc-
ture. This new decree, though legally in force, will be put into practice
gradually, according to the particular condition of the utility involved. As
a condition of effectiveness, EEEB shall have begun to implement a new tariff
structure within the framework of this decree.



- 21 -
56.       Investment and Finance.  During the period 1984-1991, EEEB's total
financial requirements will reach approximately US$4.8 billion equivalent,
including US$2,242.5 million for the 1985-90 investment program outlined
above (para. 54), as well as investments in ISA, interest during construction
and working capital requirements for the 1984-91 period. Although REEE's
self-financing capacity has been limited in recent past (as described in
para. 55 above), the projected 8.2% annual sales growth, combined with
scheduled nominal tariff increases of 37% in 1985 and 1986, 23% in 1987 and
18% in 1988-91 should generate internal funds adequate to finance 422 of the
investment required for the 1984-91 period. The remaining financing require-
ments are expected to be covered by contributions from ISA (22 of require-
ments) and domestic and external borrowings (56%).
Financial Covenants
57.       In order to ensure that EEEB continues to maintain a sound finan-
cial position, the borrower has agreed: to generate funds from internal
sources equivalent to at least 352 of capital expenditures; to produce a rate
of return on assets of at least 12%; to limit the level of its accounts
receivable to 17X of total sales by 1986; to ensure that net revenues are
equivalent to at least 1.5 times the company's estimated debt service
requirements; to maintain tariffs at levels adequate to meet the above rate
of return and internal cash generation requirements; and not to undertake any
capital expenditures beyond those required for the project, until the project
has been completed. In addition, EEEB will make its best efforts to pay-off
its arrears to ISA and its (EEEB's) contractors, in accordance with a time-
table acceptable to the Bank, by December 31, 1986 and will, in any event
pay-off such arrears by December 31, 1987 at the latest.
Procurement
S8.       Procurement of goods to be financed by the proposed loan, sith a
value of over $100,000 (except for vehicles for the Energy Losses Reduction
Program), will be through international competitive bidding (ICB) under Bank
guidelines for procurement. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or less up to an aggregate amount of US$2,000,000, would be
procured through limited international bidding (LIB), to allow faster
purchases in the case of additional goods needed for final adjustments to the
project. Goods and software (mainly spare parts, standard laboratory equip-
ment, and software) estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$500,000 would be procured by Direct Contracting.
EEEB will procure vehicles for the Energy Losses Reduction Program through
local competitive bidding (LCB) to facilitate timely project execution. The
total cost of these vehicles would be USS100,000, less than 0.12 of the pro-
posed loan. As the amount allocated to vehicles is so small, their procure-
ment through LCB will not affect the project cost, while the benefits
expected from early project start-up are important. LCB Procedures, which do
not preclude foreign contractors from bidding, have been reviewed and found
acceptable to the Bank. Consultants' services to carry out the studies
included in the Project would be contracted under Bank guidelines. Consult-
ants for technical assistance and training have already been selected with
the Bank's approval. Contracts for goods in excess of US$500,000 will be
subject to prior review by the Bank. This should permit Bank review of
approximately 80% of procurement.



- 22 -
59.       The goods to be financed from suppliers credits (without associated
Bank cofinancing) will also be procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) limited to suppliers offering credit under ar^eptable terms and
conditions. Procurement of poles and minor distribution accessories to be
financed by EEEB's internal sources will be through local competitive bidding
(LCB). Costs of these local goods are competitive with foreign ones and
their procurement by LC8 will not affect the project cost. Procurement of
civil works to be finauced by EEEB's internal sources will also be through
LCB. Local contractors have proven to be successful and competitive for
subtransmission and distribution civil works. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
--Other---
ICB     LCB     FA      LIB        DC       TOTAL COST
~~-- -=- US$ Million-
1.  Subtransmission             16.1      7.4             1.0                    24.5
(8.0)                   (1.0)                   (9.0)
2.  Distribution               106.6   174.2              1.0                   281.8
(96.1)                   (1.0)                  (97.1)
3.  Maintenance and             20.1      0.1                        0.2         20.4
Laboratory Equipment       (19.8)   (0.1)                       (0.2)       (20.1)
4.  Training and Studies                  0.9             2.3        0.3          3.5
(2.3)      (0.3)        (2.6)
5.  Energy Losses                0.6      1.2             0.6                     2.4
Reduction Program           (0.6)                    (0.6)                   (1.2)
6. Engineering and Admin.                 8.0    8.0                             16.0
TOTAL               143.4   191.8    8.0      4.9         0.5       348.6
(124.5)   (0.1)  (-)      (4.9)       (0.5)     (130.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are items to be financed by Bank loan.
ICB = International Competitive Bidding (for acquisition of equipment
and materials)
LCB = Local Competitive Bidding (for construction works, acquisition
of poles, distribution accessories and vehicles, and contracting
of local consultant services).
FA  = Force Account (services to be supplied by EEEB)
LIB = Limited International Bidding (for contracting consultants to
assist with EEEB's studies and losses reduction program, and for some
purchases not exceeding US$100,000.
DC  =  Direct Contracting (for spare parts, laboratory equipment and software)
Disbursements
60.       Funds from the proposed loan will finance: (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and materials; (b) 94% of the ex-factory



- 23 -
cost of locally manufactured equipment and materials; (c) 100% of foreign and
50% of local expenditures for consultant's services and training; and (d)
interest during construction and commitment charges for the period 1985-91.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is based on the formulated procure-
ment program and is in accordance with the corresponding Bank-wide standard
profile. A Special Account in dollars would be establiehed in Banco de la
Republica by EEEB, solely for the purposes of the Project. The Initial
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account would be in an amount of up to
US$9 million. This amount is adequate to cover the estimated disbursements
during the first 120 day period after loan effectiveness. The bulk of the
project is expected to be executed by December 31, 1990, with minor works and
testing to be completed by June 30, 1991. The closing date should be
December 31, 1991, six months after completion of the last contract, in order
to allow for payment of retention monies and unforeseen delays. All dis-
bursements will be fully documented, except for contracts with values of
US$200,000 equivalent or less, for which disbursements would be based on
statements of expenditures. Documentation for these expenditures will not be
submitted to the Bank but will be retained by EEEB for periodic review by the
Bank.
Benefits and Risks
61.       By expanding EEEB's distribution system, the project will extend
electric service to 240,000 new customers, including a large number of low-
income customers who will benefit from the systematic program of new connec-
tions for consumers in marginal quarters, many of which have precarious and
dangerous illegal connections at present. In addition, the proposed
improvements in the existing distribution system will increase the efficiency
of EEEB's operations (through reductions in technical losses and theft),
thereby ensuring better quality and reliability of service for existing
customers, along with improved financial prospects for EEEB and reduced need
for further investments in the sector's generating capacity. Improvements in
organization and management envisaged under the project should enhance the
overall efficiency of EEEB which would in turn assure the provision of
services to the public at minimum cost.
62.       Overall implementation depends to a large extent upon project
management ability, mainly to coordinate design and procurement activities
and there is some risk that shortcomings in this area may impede the timely
completion of the project. However, the establishment of a project coordina-
tion unit (para. 48) and actions being taken to improve EEEB's overall
management and organization (para. 49) should mitigate this risk to some
extent.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 4, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                               ANNEX I
3JLA ..JA                                       Past   1 of  6
gm~~~IIII t glealibL AnII
1auok      197A   uumma            LAT. AUC31C  A C& 0            na
mu6 (mor  53. no
TTAL                              123619      1156.9     1136.9
AGRICULURAL                        350.        33 3J64
0  on 0wm                               ..         ..       1430.0             1175.9                   2146.3
(XILOAS W OIL *qUALR)            355.0      *93.0       00.0              903.6                    L119.6
m"o  -  WIL vmwn
P0UATIW.Z3T3R (CI 06*AM6)  13756.0    2126.0    27315.0
ll6* POW.AZU (3 Of 7tuiL)           .62        37.2        6.1               67.7                      *7.3
POPULA?IW PUoiUcflS
01MA33  33 2000 MMl WJ                                   37.0
6     rTAX     PON eTZO (la)                             60.0
P00413    13                                         IJ
POIUL&YZOll11
mPU   . ML                        L3.6       16.7        26.2              66.0                      66.7
mm IQ. a.   I. U                 43.0        60.7        754               61.1                     1".9
nomalwA           EM  (s)
0-16 1J                          66.7       4G.1        37.7                6.3                     31.2
1346 13                          50.2        31.0        5.6               57.1                     61.3
63* AMAI                           2.9        2.7         3A                6.3                       7.2
vovm.Auo   int 31  (X)
TOYAL                              3.1        3.0         2.0                2.6                      1.6
vow                                5.7        3.2         2.7                3.6                     3.7
*l3 SIM I=  CU        4) *7.2               33.6        23.0               30.9                     23a
OEM    am  CP  20600)          7.6        9.7         7.3        *        .0                      6.9
cmns _ignUua  33                    3.3         24         I                  2.0                      1.3
ACCMU. AAL (tOM)                   .        113.         M.2 /C
Dma    o        e P 113 lam)       ..        34.0        33.0              43.3
mm ArrD o. pI
MU Of FM0 130D. IPU CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     100.0          .0       117.0             109.6                     109.1
M  CAPITA SOPn  OF
CALOR-T  (10O orMQUmn)           102.0        9.0       110.0              113.2                    I31.3
P60513 (GRAMM PU DAT)             56.0       46.0        57.0              69.6                      92.4
OF umICH ANUL MM PUlJ            26.0       26.0        23A id             34.2                     56.3
CIIILD (S  1-I) 331  M=             9.6         6.6         3.0               4.6                       6.7
maam
LM  nIY. AT 3231 (1*)              53.1       36.9        66.1              6t.s                      67.2
11*Ar1 MILT. RAT3 CP U0S03)        93.3        70.3        33.0              39.7                      53.3
ACUSE TO  *1 WA=  (tXP)
TOTAL                             30.0       63.0        92.0 /c           63.3                      70.2
Q13m                              56.9       3.0        ioo.o7W            76.5                      69.4
RURAL                              6.4       28.0        79.0 7            46.2                      57.0
ACCQSS TO RICIrA DISPO3L
(S Or POPULATION)
TOrAL                              ..        67.0        63.0 Ic           36.3                      59.6
_35*1                              ..        73.0      I10.O 7;            73.4                      65.9
RIIUL                              ..         6.0         4.0 e            25.5                      67.6
POPUlATIOI PU PHTSICIAI          2660.0      2330.0      1710.0 I.         1909.7                    1070.6
POP. U MSING P I                  6220.0 I    7300        6.O7;             60.2                      769.3
POP.      NOSFTAL 31
TOTAL                            360.0      450.0       360.0 /            362.0                    326.3
Ulm1*                              ..       360.0       690.0 7           422.0                     201.9
Ruin                               ..         ..          ..              2716.7                   4519.7
AMfSsIUS PE HoSPIAL  W               ..        22.9        29.8  d            27.5          Wo.O
AVZRA  SIXZ OF NOUSOLO
TOTAL                              ..         3.7
1133..                                        3.3 Li.
RURAL                             i..
*AVRA  NO. OF PERSOSINUOO
TOTAL                              . .        1 .6        .
TOBAN                              ..         1.6          .
RURAL                              ..          .           .
PFUCSUNACK OF DUELLUSS WiT vi.
2OTAL                             47.0 /h     6.1I
1133*                            Us.O 7      67.3 Li      .
lURAL                              .0 W7    13.2 i        .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo7                    3 7



- 26 -                                                       ANNEX .
T A I L I 3A                                   Pag  2 of  6
A                                                  1) S  ST REES KITXMST) .
wo UCUITg        MIDE IC SU              MDDEI
1960        19t loydA  i irga       LAT. AIZCA 0 CAR             sUmOP
ADJUSTED *EOLUIEI uATIS
PEINAIT   TOTAL                   77.0       103.0      130.0              101.7                     101.9
HAIE                   77.0       107.0       129.0             103.5                     106.2
PENALS                 77.0       110.0      132.0              101.6                     37.5
C>ONDAEYI iOSTAL                  12.0        25.0       46.0               44.2                     57.5
NILE                   13.0        25.0       43.0               '2.7                      14.9
ENIE                   11.0        24.0       31.0               44.9                      50.1
OCrAOSIL CZ Of 8ECONDART)           30.8 .3     20.2       21.0 Li            13.3                     21.0
PUPL-TREAO RATIO
P3131                             36.0        31.0       31.0               29.9                     25.1
sCOHI                             11.0        17.0       20.0               19.7                     19.1
PA$EE CAa/SUIAIm  Par                5.7        11.2       18.1 Li            44.0                     54.2
AMDIO  ECzVRIJU/OU3AIID POP        125.1       104.3      131.7              328.3                    170.7
TV  EUSCIVERS/TIUAND po              9.5       38.1        36.9 /            112.4                     149.3
NEIIEPAPUR ("SAIL! GEIUAL
INTEREIT") CIRcuLUnOU
PU TI80U0M  POI9LA!10              30.0       109.7       41.0               61.1                      97.0
aXuI  AwAL ATwNcCAIITA               ..          ..         2.0                2.4                      2.7
~m-
TOCAL LAUOR POU:S (tIOS)          4727.0     6333.0      9064.0
YENLE (PEtRCEN)                   19.2        24.8       24.6               23.6                      36.3
AGICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.&        37.9       25.3 /c            31.4                     40.8
ZDsaTI (PERcENT)                  19.2        21.0       21.2 7             24.3                      23.3
PAITCIPA2IO RAZ (CPr
TOTAL                             30.0        29.9       33.0               33.5                      43.1
KALB                              48.3        45.1       49.4               51.3                      55.1
PUELE                             11.5        14.8       16.1               15.9                      31.4
ECOuMNIC DSuE1E        RATIO         1.7         1.6        1.3                1.3                      0.9
PtiCwT OF PEIVAnT UNCN
REIED  B
UIGEESTS 5OF 0SUoLDI              41.2 Ihl  31.9 ...
NST 20S 07 HISCODS                67.7 /h.   *0.1
Lamm 202 OF HOURSEHLDS             2.14/[   3.5
LMST 400 O DUSROLDS                6.8  /h. 10.1 ..
ISSDATD ABSOLUTS PO?ETT IsCON
LZVEL (USS PE CAPITA)
DRBA                               ..          ...      214.0 d            286.3
RomL                               ..          ..       197.0 Id           165.3
ESTINATU RZLATrIV POVrTY Ilt3
LVEL CUSS R  CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        2.7.0 /d           519.8
RURAL                                                   122.0 71           359.7
ESTINATED POP. BELOW ABSOLT
p1KOYEtm INCOME LEVEL tX)
URBAN                                                    34.0 /d
RURAL
NOT AVALABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
NOTE S
/a  The group average for each indicator are popuaatlou-aght.d aritboatic menu. Coverage of countries
moon the indIctors depends on availabilicy of data and Is not uniform.
/b  UnLearsn otborie noted. losta for 1960" ruWer to an  year beten 1959 and 1961: "Data for 1970" betwen
-    1969 and 1971; and data for "Mat Recent teti_te" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1977; to 197A; If 1962; LL 1973; Lb 1964; /1 Including tracher trainin  at the tertirry
level; 7j Ec osoLally actTve population.
JUNE. 1985



ANNEX I
-27  -                                                 Page  3 of 6
|                                              DUEFINmONS OF SOCIAL trEDICATORS
Notes Although the dat, are drawn from sowuna geewray judmd the mon aulhorniutve and reliable. it should albo be noted that they may not be inteuonatlly
comparable banue of the lick of standardized defintions end conopta uaed by different countrie n collecting the data The data are. nothelh. useful to
dewsne ords of mgmiude. indicate trends, nd charsetnric cermin major diltrenes hetit countre.
Thr reference groups are  It the sme country gtroup of he subjnt country and t2) a country group with so ht whi hgher average income than the country
xroupoufthesubject country lecept ror High Icorme Ott Exporters' group where -Middle lIcome North Arria and Middle East" incchon becu ofstronger
wslociculural affintiitl In the reference group 'lass the aveags are population weightid arithmetic means for each indiraor and rhown only when majoriy
of the countrie in a group ha data for that ndator. Since the coveage orcountne anmonj the indmator depends on the availability ofdata and Is not uniform.
caution muat be excied in mrelating verag of one indicator to another. Tbhec averages ar only uaeful in companng the value of one indcator at a ume among
the countrv and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.k-m.)                                            Crude frth Rate (per theausa)--Numaber of livc births in the year
Trta-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;    per thoustnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crue Deak Rate (per ihomas)-Number of deaths in the year
Agr_wal-EEstimnate of agricultural area used temporaridy or        per thoumnd or mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pasturers market and kitchen gardens or to  Gron ARprduet   Rad-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her norma reproductive puiod if she experiences
pmsent ag-pecific fertility rates; usually live-year avcrages ending
CNI PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estinutes at current           in 1960, 1970. and 1933.
market prices. calculated by  -ame conversion method  s World      Fand   P eg(t-mcasptr  Ai  (hadsi-AnnuaI nutn-
Bank Atcas (1981-83 basis). 1983 data.                             berof aceptors ofbirtbh-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        F lPTes                         f        i e-Tepecen-
petroleum. ntatural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geothermal dec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricityl in kilograms of oil cquivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraocption. Womn
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aed 15-49. although for
some countries conmraceptive usage is measurd for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Toedl Popaiati n. Mid- Yew (thmamdf-As of July 1:1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Index of Food hoduetillow Pr Capia (1969-71 - lift---Index of per
Urban Pobpueio  (peent of total) - Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of al food commoditics. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas mav affect compar-  excudes anim  feed and seed for agriulture. Food commoditi
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 193 dau.           include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead or sugar)
hprkdLnoa   jroh s                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffec and tea are
Populatron in rear 2000-The projection of population for 000.      excluded): they comprise ccreals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetabls fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intemational migration in the base year 1940. these parameters     on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the poputation became stationary.                Per Capa Suppl ofCaoris V rceotfaeaireAea)-Comput-
Stanionanr' popuktion-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talitv rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacexent level  tion. imports Icss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Inet reproduction rate = I) In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics or  and health considenng environnental tcmperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the race ofdecline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populatiom  Mo mertum - Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Ca'a Supply of Proein (gras per h.f)-Protein content of
continue beytnd the time :hat replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supphl of food per dav Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net rep:oduction rate has reached  as abone. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as   provide kIr minimum allowances of 60 grarms of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 21D grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility rem;ans at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
pulatop  De,iry                                                    average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km -Mtd-year population per square kilometer I100 hec-      Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 19W3 data.                   Pr Capa Protein Supy From Axh.. ad Polse- -Protein supply
Per .q.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animalsand pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PopulatioPAge Strw&ctre fperetjrr-Children (0-14 yearsi. work-     Child (qes  -4j) Dear Rate (per rhoasf)- - Number of deaths of
ing age 115-4 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  childrent aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
dopltton Growth Rate (perceufl-4ota-Annual growth races of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Popxfaton Growth Rate (percenr)-arbe-- Annual growth rates         Life Expeteany  t Birth (JyarsJ-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                          Page 4 of a
at the tine of of iu birth were to stay the same throughout its Ufe;  Aap-schAr  aiole - prbrary. and nedry-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                       roled in p ary and secondary level divid  by numben or
lafa Aieot  Ae (pr theuadJ--Number ot infant who dle    teachr In the cormpondnlg leves.
before rching one yeaof ae per thousad live births In a given
year: 1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Acme  - 5     Whow ('cuft  of p          ad.th.-Mdt. 5       P&sseqwr Cm  (pe theuuat   pspmiesio-sPlsenger can com-
irw-Number of people (total auban, and nrual) with reaonable   pr  motor car saling l  than eght perona; exclud  ambul-
access to safe water upply (inlude tinted  urface watm or      ano, heses nd military vehic.
untreated but uncontunaited water tuch a tha fron protcd       RA   A         {p  'k   idpeplslimutAl types of r vcrs
boreholk, sprn   nd  ituy well) as peoentag4e a their r pee-   ror radio broadcasts to genal public per thouand of populaion;
dve population In -n uran am a public fountain or stanpoet     cxdudes un-lcensed receives in countries ad in yeanr  when
located not momn than 200 mess rsfromn a house may he consideord  registration or radio st wa in effect data for ecent yean may
as being within reasonable asom  of tha bou   . irua ara       not be comparable since most countries abolished licensg.
reaonable acorn would imply that the housewife or n beombu othe Tmceive  for bodcst
household do not have to sped a disproporionate part of the day  toAgenera (puithousadpopaloe--TV receivs    ens or   T
in fctching the framily' water neds                            tO pnen pubc per thoue  d populedon; ecdude u.U=nd 1V
Aeees a. E&its Eqeel (Fire'S if pepe_)_euj-raral, wArn         rmeir  in contries and in yea  when rtration of TV eeu was
sd uW--Number of peope (totaL urban, and rural) srved by          effeeL
excreta disposal as pe t Ort     of their respective populations.  kliue a I     (M t          p      lS ws the aver-
Excmeta disposal may include the clction and disposal, with or  aW OScilabuof 'd aiy widl interst newspaer," defined a a
without treatmet. of human excest and wase-water by water-     peodic  pubikatkni dpot  primarily to recording    al news.
borne sytems or the use of pit privie and similar instalatonL  It is considered to be dailry if it appean at bast four times a waek.
Ppalsl.r pfPhydn-ftpudlaon divided by number of pr c-          ClaSen  Amend Araadre per Capit pe  Yeer-Baed on the
ui ng physins qualified from a medicl school at univwnty level.  number of tickets sold durng the year. including adminssons to
Ppuldk per Nw_iq PoWrar-Fbpulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
praccing male and female graduate nures. asistant nurse.
praial nurses and nursing auxiii. LeOR FORCE
.pall  p -r IIw,E aee-eal, _m_, sa  rarl-opulation              Tel Laer Foce (rheas.ads-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rurl) divided by thir resPective number of   cluding armed formes and unemployed but excluding houswives
hospidblbdsa*va    in publica*nd prinvatcme,  W d    lze       students, etc., covering population of all ags  Definitions in
hospitals eds aiablein publc ad    ital ame establishmcat      various countris are not comparabl  1960.1970 and 1913 data.
penrmanently staffed by at least one physician. Establshments prov-  Fa_Ide (pwertFecmale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally cusodial cam amr not included Rural hospitals,  form.
however. indude health ad medicl centers not pennanently staffed  Agrulr  (pwcieaD-Labor force in farning, forestry, huning
by a physi ian (but by a medical asistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as pementage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offei in-patient acconmnodation and provide a limited rangc  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Iandaryp (perca)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admsira  per Heospital hi-Total number of admnissions to or    facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Anicipse  Rae (pererarj)-eo# mushn, dfemale-4artiapation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates an computed as total. male, and female labor force
Avege Sic of H.Aeh    (pi-    per h      duakel)-,tan, sba,    as percentagcs of total. malc and female population of all ages
aEti-rsaL-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectvely; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These ae based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be includzi in the household for statistical purposes.  long tme trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Averge AN--er of Personu per Room--rotdal wham, _ad  sal-      Ecoenvi Dependrecy Rarie-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room  in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage f Dwelins wth Electricity--toral wba, and i-sal-  , 'eeere of Totel Disposabl lao    (both i ess cs ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electriaty in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentle groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4asied Emrolueunt Rino                                        The fotlowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prnry school - total. mane aid female-Gross total. male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollrent of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Eitumred Abselmre Povery I1cme Levd IUSS per capir)-arhau
respective primary school-age populations, While many countries  ad rura-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider pnmarv scbool age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a rpinimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reficecd in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esrnred Relive Poverty lc1    Levil (US per capita r-ban
education. gross enrolUment nmy exceed 100 percent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Jrban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. mak adfemale-Computed as above       living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  rtimed Popularw   Below Absolite Povrty lacenw Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cria)-mrbae ad rural- Pfrcent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
cnce courses are generally cxduded.
Vocaional E,roilnen: (percent of secondon )---Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions                               June 1985



ao - - 29 -                                                                                     r*
-U~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4-)                        .a  gm m  m  m  n  -  m  me
PiawO                                        u      u      M        i         a1          W     W     A
b~~rAm*m           a       m     A      s5      4          w                  w   ar       w      wra
7  ~     ~     ,     MR    U D    4Sw    6.    U       2.   zi   iJ    2.    56    aa    al    2.
_~~ 3.5.5                         sr    D,.2    U      U      w2  g6    3.9   57    51.   3.2   b
-mo             30     33    .M   3.2    IA    is8   47   MA   MA    EW             2   5.      2   &&
- J                 7:D    7.?   7of   60       3L    36    7.2 J1       n2    D0   5 6    W  NA    AS9
d fd*               4*7   V4    4W        *    3.      . SA    L7   DA   iLl   O1    I.J   1.3   IU    VA
%" cesob E a   G      %.1    50m    32   463    DA    9.   56    5        Mi   5.    03    5.    D
am md3a so"         %.  _W    k*    45           2   32   -A     B       M       2   52    3   IL6        3
4M  29    d  7a    -     3   95U            M    V35    W    -f   -3    U3
3u    a       a%   3a      -    4A   -u       -    VA    ZLI  13.2   V.   2.3   Le
--MMM 2                                   15 3  2i   12.3   MA    SWn   MO   KW    MO  MD   MO
urn   u,                                                         -            --a   -0   -v    =    -9
M3     a      a     M6   -aA.   no.  41.    20    -        LA   3.    123   W~ 11.
IWeydqb           1.3    UR    LOt   1.        52   *4.1   37      7   lA0   3.1   362   M.   3.9  D.9
aft       X       2.     24     1.    19       LB   S.    w    3        9a   39   43.      5   J.    U.
U.    M3  Cl          7    - M) M2 -                           _  s  
311   229    3.   -.1    7.1   2.1    -.6   22.    MA   M           UL A
uwg -                     L     Di    367    38    N.1    4h    173   51          J    M   MA
21 -m           C     9 i    S     I10   13m1   186   3.7   MM  -D5.3   MU   3.2  3.I
' *                      XilO        UR    19    3.    1. 9D j  M9 122.5   I  12.2   2.9  1fl2
^ ~   ~ ~ U           35 UF          U) se         UM7 s s SB
QmPI -Ji                                       962   9.3 717        7.9    1.8    iE
1o                        1      h             6.2   6.1    78 3LI         9.1   9.9
uq*x (*)cr delcit                 ~~10    3.2    -    -O6    -0.9   469
Go,%Lapnda-                                    43    3.5   3w    is    2.7   L3e
L4    0.2    LO    GA    OIL    03
calaR
W--z-dl|                                       i5.   6.1    IM7a
m -     -S                                        :L5 2.XD      3JW   17
Num lk                                        LID   6.W   L4         o      1
oppwdwwsma~~~~~~m                 233    2.1   4.AO
IMM/                               15k l   i 15 
Yqim m*W  Mu~                                 0.13   am    0ib
YA=dnUC24,                             1     0.6    2.1
)IF -COz . 7
bib=d hm m I5-
d   OmMd =,:  O_   Z M:L hMzC a
f 1--   N  E
W     D     1                  __DgDd 0h
M,



- 30 -
Ror tr oo  MMINL                                       mmamo                                               W7
a7m     ad  t b dnsmdin           Z,M   Z.M   3M3   4        40! 5DJ    4.1   4.     4.1         42   4,    NO   6.31A
bd       ghadmUP= nt              ZWD   2.    2.M    1.0   3,    5VA   6.13   t7    5.3 $M         f   5Jl  .S          .iS  GM
%MQ      m                           13S    a     a      EI    739   33  -         1.61   4-i    -        Ql -U   2     S9  1 1
-"Cfmm4                                                 -W  f   w                -S  -- '   -m w  4S 2wr -
PK        I                         ID     3      40    44      B    is    212   kg    33        ZU      MD      D        MD 33
GmnUam                               4   2ZD  1  D              25   D j JZZ~   1h<B11
ft dint  x hI            13                 14    43      9             2     U      I      1       411   4a       D  D      3D
Man ad b"mrkinu                      D      ID    al    n       E9    m    1,43   1,    LA        1,    15    1,5   to    1
Db pm  now                -       CM    (U13   (^       (73    M    (I   (lJDl    MM    0    (         (0l,il (lA') (1,0  (2
DtD--tD                  t               c61)   CS)   co    am) ta   C            (5)     a      (j9)   (t    (3R     () t   ( t)
ahir OM                             -Ias   Ua      1      as   -0      i5    3       315 W        -1,0    -          -5A   -W  0
r_ 0Zl 255  AM a                                     as Ub       ID _S L5 ,                                      ID
0    hnQ C--                        -I,   -0    -a       0)    W             -E l    73           __        D   -D   -0   -M
Hk *_m_    -    (8bd1)               M    1      2.3    2.    4, V .4 SW    41   31               I3    1.3   2.b   2,   365
__nW        ufh(mu d  dm t  ad )    50    73    9W       I 1 I2    12B   1.1        7    64       4.3    44     6    4.   46
O-_dIff           m                3      2S    25    ze 92   1919   1,317   USZ   U2   1,Ld
an--mkmL                       la    43      a D          31    46      '      36   4S      0
(0 (X0    (3 )   (45   (3t    (9)   CM)    () )04    t
P3 ~~~~~~(-9   (-)   (-7                      C)    (-7     C)  (-) (C -)   (-9   (-9
(2    (3)   (a)   (6)   (a    Cl)   C!)    C)   O0   0M)
-35    214    3)    21    sa    912  1.25   I        1.3D   1m
lvffie-apt             (1S)    CD   (14)   (5) W(    (0)   C(3)   (13    (          CM)
-                                (10)   (73   (lb)   (      (M    (22)   CM9   CM)   CM)  (4E6)
0     (3)   (31)   C33)  C?    (47)   (71)    5    0)  0t
: ta tM                           m   U    m0) 0tM  mmf me  MO t
oa dig ad d-iz                2.37   ZAZ   2i   2$Y   3339  4I         53   5.i  6J    7.9D
(add                             1,736  LJM    I)   2JTh    IQ   2.y    2.0   313   3.!  4,9
I                               (6OX)   Wh   (751)   (3   (819 we      (IJO)  (1SV           t17)
DR                              CM      2)  (CZ)   02)        CO       tZI)    0)      ( (S)  tl)
13r                           (l,=  (I.WP  tlC2  (IZ=  (Wa   nXJ  (IO    (A   (I=   tZm)
ftt6t                             61 S 5 S 6             If   1,I2 Ai.    2,1.   Zl   3.3   3,3
UddmlIot                           660    93   l1) 1   .53   1,%    2 45   2JM31  3V     3il  4,)
ornbuw
1d. pz >m    Z1                           ZO    316   3B      6'7 5    472    )D   ID  IW
<f a"h h                          115   125    V      my    ZDW    D      40     51    21    7
FRM an  S   of S& Orld
all sA                             7    9.2   9.0    93    12.9    .5   12.6   166   212   Z.5
I'oamzap                           1.    18    1.6   1.7    23         6    1.9   2.3   2.5   3.1
a      _ jge   aiiini mo o         7.5   6.7    7J3   7.9   11    13.3  122    XI    209  13D
CMAA                             (6.3)  C5.6)  (7.3)  (7.6)  (7.7)   M)   (7.6)  (9.5)  (11.1  (tm)
Rt                               t(3)  (7.6)  (7.A)   (     (IL9  (1S.7)  (14w   (2.   (9.7) (nt6)
&u  ydr-w e      ow(m)             15    FIS   J&2    Vo.3   L30            29            MAW     W
ofadel                           QM33 r       (MA)      )  (17.)  (17.7)  (1    (3   (K3M   (n..)
Pd-                              (a.)   MM    (7.9)   M)  (DM   (Mg)  (1         (9.9)  5M) r)
lNlDM%xaLalD                      2V      7.2 2        Z.7 AS        X2    nO    =7    ZL9 a
M dWmaP             mm dibnmu     V.3   29A    2W7    ED       .1   21.4   NA 2D.4 Z       .   71.4
1d3    d ILdittdm                 3ZB   31.9   23    318    w3   273    4.0   21.J   Z8   2S3
ER MVMD   UD                       a9    0.9      8    0a8    0.6   0.5    0A    0.3   013   0.2
OLdib _roffe d03 oko                      0s2   (11  a1    (it       Il    0.1   fL1    .1   0.1
jat 
n bdtkdnn



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                            Amount (lees Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6               14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8              3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export            15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5              6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply        27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply        30.5              7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0               4.7
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                 3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0              32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               124.9             48.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                85.0             64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation          37.0             13.9
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



32 -
Annex I I
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT Or BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985)
Numbar  Year  Borrover                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisburmed
1"99    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Cost& Atlantica               Power               36.0             15.0
2008    1981  Empreea de Energia Electric&
de Bogota                      Power             359.0            171.7
2069    1981  Inetituto Naclonal de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management           9.0              7.2
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways            73.8             63.7
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Naclonal               Highways          149.6             86.2
2174    1982  Colombia                          Rural Develop-
ment             53.0             44.8
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerlo de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0               12.0
2303    1983  Inlaituco Colombiano              Agricultural
Agropecuario                     Research         63.4             57.6
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.        Coal
Exploration       9.5              8.7
2379    1984  Colombia                          Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0              24.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Pover Develop-
ment Finance   170.0              54.3
2449    1984  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply          164.5            150.2
2453    1984  Federacion Nacional de           Agricultural
Cafeteros de Coloubiano          diversifi-       50.0             46.3
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    40.0              30.4
2470    1984  Empresas Municipales             Water Supply        18.5             17.3
de Cucuta
2476    1984  Empresa Colonbiana de Petrol   Petroleum            130.0            106.2
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica             Development
Banking         90.0             82.7
2512    1985  Empresa Acueducto                Water Supply       129.0            120.9
Alcantarillo de Bogota
2551    1985  Republic of Colombia              Trade Policy      300.0            185.5
Export Diver-
sification
26111/  1985  Republic of Colombia              Health Services
Integration     36.5              36.5
TOTAL                                            4,791.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                         1,033.1   5.1
Total now outstanding                            3,758.3  18.4
Amount sold                           51.0           -
Of which has been repaid              51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   3,758.3  18.4
Total undisbursed                                                 1,593.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -
Annex II
Paxa 3 of 4
B.  STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US9 Million
year                    Obligor                   Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board            .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products         1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans             .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                    Home furniture         .08    .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equipment .50        -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing        6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera             Development
Nacional                           financing        6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de             Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                             financing           -    .81         .81
1964-1968      ForJas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing          1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                 Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                              financing            -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Valle                             financing         6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism                .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
- 1970-1977       Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                 -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement                1.50      -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement               3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                         Mining               6.00       -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities            13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material          0.49   2.24       2.73



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985 (Continued)
Fiscal                                             Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing               9.00      .20     9.20,
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material         21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining               10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                               117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                         67.34    9.59    76.93
Total commitments now held by IFC                      50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                           45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)                                         -



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
BOGOTA DISTRIBUTION II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
.
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a) Time taken to prepare project:                 18 months (from May 1983
to November 1984)
b) Agency which prepared the project:             EEEB
c) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:        November 5, 1984
d) Date of Completion of Negotiations:            April 30, 1985
e) Planned Date of effectiveness:                 March 31, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
- The Bank will make its best efforts to schedule a 'Project Launch"
meeting with EEEB in March 1986 to speed the commencement of project
implementation.
- Coincident with this Project Launch meeting, the Bank *Lll review and
comment upon the detailed plan of action for the implementation of the
training program to be undertaken by EEEB.
Section III: Special Conditions
- Establishment and entry into operation of two administi..tive units
(for project coordination and energy loss reduction program) with powers and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
- EEEB to implement a restructuring of tariffs within the framework of
the Government's Decree of October 12, 1984 in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.
- EEEB to take measures to reduce energy losses to specific target
levels.
- EEEB to submit for Bank approval by December 31, 1985, the detailed
plan of action for the implementation of a training program to improve EEEB's
management, strategic planning and technical skills; to employ consultants by



- 36 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
March 31, 1986 to execute the program; and to implement the program promptly,
taking the Bank's comments into account.
- EEEB to:
-maintain internal cash generation at 352 of capital expenditutes
-produce a 12Z rate of return on assets
-limit accounts reccevable to 17Z of total sales
-maintain debt coverage ratio oE at least 1.5
-maintain tariffs at levels adequate to meet rate of return and
internal cash generation requirements
-limit new investments until after project completion.
-pay-off its arrears to ISA and to its contractors by
December 31, 1987 at the latest.






