Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18065
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
(Cr. 2349-GH)
June 24, 1998
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 5, 1997)
Currency Unit            =        Cedi
US$1.00                  -        Cedi 1,937.38
SDR1                            US$1.44
US$1                     =        SDR.69
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                           LITERACY CYCLE
January - December                               October to September (2 year cycle)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIA               Beneficiary Impact Assessment
DFID              Department for International Development
GBC               Ghana Broadcasting Corporation
GBPA              Ghana Book Publishers Association
GILLBT            Ghana Institute of Linguistics, Literacy, and Bible Translation
GLSS              Ghana Living Standards Survey
GNAT              Ghana National Association of Teachers
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IGA               Income-Generation Activities
JSS               Junior Secondary School
LFSP              Literacy and Functional Skills Project
MOE               Ministry of Education
MTR               Mid-term review
NBSSI             National Bureau of Small-Scale Industries
NFED              Non-Formal Education Division
NGO               Non-governmental organization
NOK               Norwegian Kroner
NSS               National Service Secretariat
Nuffic/CESO       Netherlands Organization for International Co-operation in Higher
Education/Center for the Study of Education in Developing Countries
ODA               Overseas Development Organisation
PMU               Project Management Unit
RAC               Research Advisory Council
SDR               Standard Drawing Rights
SSS               Senior Secondary School
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
|[Vice Peident:  Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
|Country Director: Peter Harrold (AFC10O)
Sector Manager:  Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader: Irene Xenakis (AFTH3 )



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2349-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................................... I
INTRODUCTION .......................................................................1
A. THE WORLD BANK'S SUPPORT FOR LITERACY ....................................................................  I
B. OBJECTIVES OF THE LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT ...............................................................  2
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................................        6
A. PROJECT OUTCOMES AND IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .....................................................................  6
B. PROJECT DESCRiPTION AND COMPONENTS ....................................................................  6
I LEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...................................................................... 10
A. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTANABILITY .................................................................... 10
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............... 12
A. IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .......................................................... 12
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable  --
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:        A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2349-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Literacy and Functional Skills
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 2349-GH in the amount of SDR 12.4 million (equivalent to
US$ 17.4 million) was approved on March 26, 1992, signed on April 22, 1992, and became
effective on July 21, 1992. The project was further supported by a grant from the Kingdom of
Norway of 20 million NOK (equivalent to US$ 2.9 million), which was administered by The
World Bank.
Tlhe Credit was originally scheduled to close on June 30, 1995. However in practice,
the Credit was closed on December 31, 1997 after being extended twice, first from June 30, 1995
to December 31, 1996, and then from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997. The last
disbursement took place on April 29, 1998. A total undisbursed balance of SDR 951,086 of the
Credit and NOK 1,482,484 of the Norwegian grant, were canceled upon closure.
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Ms. Margaret Kilo and Mr.
John Elder of the Human Development Group Three (AFTH3) of the Africa Region, with the
technical support of Mrs. Betty Casely-Hayford. It was reviewed by Mrs. Irene Xenakis (Senior
Implementation Specialist, AFTH3), Ms. Janet Leno (Senior Education Specialist, AFMGH), and
Mrs. Helena Ribe (Sector Manager, AFTH3). The Government of Ghana contributed to the
preparation of the report by providing relevant data, and by preparing its own evaluation of the
project (see Appendix B).
The preparation of the ICR begun during the Bank's completion mission in October
1997. The draft ICR was discussed as part of a consultative workshop which took place in
Accra, Ghana, from April 27 to May 1, 1998. The main objective of the workshop was to
integrate lessons learned from this operation into the subsequent phase of Bank's support for the
Ghana Literacy Programme. The ICR is based on the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, project supervision reports, and correspondence between the
Bank and the Government of Ghana. Findings from monitoring visits by World Bank staff,
several learner assessments (carried out by NFED), a qualitative Beneficiary Impact Assessment
(BIA), and other relevant reports prepared by the Government of Ghana, have been integrated
into the ICR. A copy of the BIA is available from the Africa Information Service Center.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
(Cr. 2349-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Bank's Role in the Sector
1.     Between fiscal year 1970 and fiscal year 1990, one-fifth of the World Bank's projects
in low-income countries contained a literacy element, but these elements accounted for only I
percent of total project costs. A study by the World Bank's Operations and Evaluation
Department (OED) shows that, from fiscal year 1963 to fiscal year 1990, approximately 11
percent of the funding for all Bank-supported education projects was spent on non-formal
education.
2.     In Ghana, the World Bank and the Government of Ghana have completed five projects
in the education sector, including the Literacy and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH), since
the establishment of the Economic Recovery Program in the mid-80s. Four education projects
are currently being implemented: (i) the Tertiary Education Project (Cr. 2428-GH); (ii) the
Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508-GH); (iii) the Vocational Skills and Informal
Sector Project (Cr. 2695-GH); and (iv), the Basic Education Sector Improvement Program (Cr.
2885-GH). Two education operations have been proposed in the sectoral lending program:
Functional Literacy II and the Post-Basic Education Project.
Description of the Literacy and Functional Skills Project
3.      The Literacy and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH) was the first stand-alone non-
formal education project supported by IDA in the Africa Region. It was designed to assist the
National Functional Literacy Programme,which the government initiated in 1990 after the 1989
census showed that the level of illiteracy among Ghanaians aged 15 and over was as high as 67
percent.
4.      The project was reviewed by the World Bank's Board on March 26, 1992, was signed
on April 22, 1992, and became effective on July 21, 1992 with a projected closing date of June
30, 1995. During the Bank's Mid-term Review of the project in April 1994, several
administrative and pedagogical changes were made that greatly improved the implementation of
the project and made the achievement of project objectives more likely. The closing date of the
project was extended twice (from June 30, 1995 to December 31, 1996 and then to December 31,
1997) to allow for the strengthening of the NFED's management capacity and the
implementation of specific activities. The project finally closed on December 31, 1997.
5.     A follow-up operation, Functional Literacy II, is scheduled for fiscal year 1999. The
implementation of this project will benefit considerably from the experience of the first project.
Demand for literacy services in Ghana is clearly high, and research undertaken during the first
project can be used to tailor the content and timing of literacy courses to this demand.



Objectives of the Project
6.      The overarching objective of the Literacy and Functional Skills Project (LFSP) was to
improve the quality of life of the poorest Ghanaians, especially those in rural areas, by equipping
them with basic literacy and numeracy skills and new knowledge. The government hoped that
the LFSP would bring about a dramatic reduction in illiteracy in Ghana within a decade. In
particular, the project stressed the need to make learners "functionally" literate, in other words, to
be able to apply their new skills in practice in their daily lives. The project's specific objectives
were:
* To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Non-formal Education Division (which was
established in 1986 under the Ministry of Education to coordinate all non-formal education
activities in Ghana) to manage the entire literacy program effectively
* To ensure that all of the aspects of the program were subject to frequent evaluation and
monitoring and that research and evaluation were key inputs in the development of any new
initiatives
* To improve the existing literacy program so that a large proportion of the 840,000 adults who
would be allowed to participate would become functionally literate
* To ensure that all new literates, whether from the school system or from the literacy program,
had access to a range of reading materials in the Ghanaian languages
* To expand the coverage of the FM broadcasting system to support the functional literacy
program and to increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in the Ghanaian
languages.
Components of the Project
7.      The project contained the following elements: (i) institutional support; (ii) research,
monitoring and evaluation; (iii) classroom teaching; (iv) a system of supervisors to monitor the
attendance and progress of learners and the performance of the facilitators; (v) classroom
materials and learner motivation; (vi) the creation of a literate environment; (vii) radio studio and
transmission facilities; (viii) post-literacy classes; and, (ix) assisting NGOs and other literacy
providers with training and materials.
Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
8.      Credit covenants were primarily in the areas disbursement and procurement. The
Government of Ghana complied with the terms of all of these covenants (see Part II, Table 8).
The NFED also entered into special arrangements with: (i) the National Bureau of Small-scale
Industries (NBSSI) to oversee the income generation activities of the project; (ii) the Ghana
Book Publishers Association (GBPA) to produce reading materials in 15 Ghanaian languages;
(iii) the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) to provide air time to the project in its Tamale
and Ho studios; (iv) the New Times Corporation for printing and distributing to the literacy



classes community newspapers in the 12 languages of the southern sector; and (v) the Gonja
Literacy Project and the Ghana Institute of Linguistics, Literacy, and Bible Translation (GILLBT)
for printing and distributing to the literacy classes community newspapers in the northern sector.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS.
Costs and Financing Arrangements
9.      From its onset, the LFSP was supported by the IDA Credit and an IDA-administered
grant from the Kingdom of Norway. The Literacy Programme had greatly benefited from the
involvement of the British Department for International Development (DFID), formerly known
as the Overseas Development Agency. Also, UNICEF initially provided funding for the training
of trainers but gradually phased this out.
10.    It was estimated at the time of appraisal that it would cost US$30.9 million, with
financing coming from IDA (US$17.4 million), the Kingdom of Norway (US$2.9 million),
UNICEF (US$0.6 million), and the Government of Ghana (US$ 10 million). The DFID
participated in the project, contributing some of its support by providing resident technical
assistance to the NFED. Because of the depreciation of the Cedi and various implementation
issues, the actual project cost only US$ 27.4 million or 90 percent of total estimated cost.
Project Results and Outcomes
H1.    The overarching objective of the project was to improve the quality of life of the
poorest Ghanaians by providing literacy training. This was vital because poverty and illiteracy
are closely linked in Ghana. The more specific project objectives were pertinent to the country's
needs but were somewhat ambitious given the weak capacity of the NFED and the large number
of people who were expected to participate in the project's literacy classes.
12.    Nevertheless, the objective of providing literacy training to 840,000 learners was not
only attained but even surpassed, partly as a result of the project being extended twice. About
1,373,571 learners enrolled (as of December 1997), of whom 726,714 (as of June 1997) had
completed the training. The two learner assessments undertaken in the last two years of the
project demonstrated that many learners succeeded in acquiring literacy and numeracy skills,
with scores in reading being significantly higher than in writing. The level of illiteracy found in
the 1987 census was 67 percent of the population over the age of 15. The most recent data show
that this has dropped to 51 percent. Much of this decline is due to the people who completed the
literacy courses under the LFSP.
13.    The low drop-out rates for learners (about 22 percent) and high retention rates for the
volunteer facilitators (over 85 percent), often a problem in literacy programs, indicate that there
was a strong demand for literacy, and that the learners and facilitators were highly motivated.
Implementation of the project was helped by very high demand for literacy, particularly among



iv
the 25 to 44 age group. This provided a large pool of people motivated to take the courses over a
fairly long period. Qualitative research indicates a variety of reasons for attending literacy
classes including the desire to avoid being cheated in financial transactions, the need to read
instructions on agro-chemical packages, the belief that literacy was a prerequisite for improved
social status, the desire to send and receive mail without assistance and the need to keep accurate
accounts.
14.    The project was in many ways self-targeting, since only illiterates would be interested
in participating and most illiterates were poor. It helped to counter regional disparities in access
to basic education, as 67 percent of the learners were from the northern sector compared to only
17 percent from the Greater Accra area. Sixty percent of the learners were women, and 70
percent of them had had no formal schooling before starting the courses provided by the project.
15.     On the monitoring visits it became clear that learners are demonstrating their increased
appreciation for education by enrolling their children in primary school, thereby expanding
enrollments at that level. The Beneficiary Impact Assessment mentioned that there has been an
increase in self-esteem among learners and an increase in awareness of the choices available to
them in such areas as family planning, health and hygiene, agricultural practices, preservation of
the environment, and civic awareness.
Implementation Experience
16.    A critical factor in the success of the project was the fact that it was possible to find,
recruit, and retain a large number of dedicated volunteer teachers (facilitators), many of whom
taught throughout several consecutive courses even without receiving the promised incentives.
Another important factor was that the project received high-level political support, as well as
participation and support at the grassroots level from local communities.
17.     However, the management capacity of the NFED itself was weak. Managers changed
frequently, and at times there was no identifiable leader of the institution. Initially, the
complexity of the project meant that those at the NFED who were charged with implementing it
failed to understand it fully. The working relationship between NFED staff and the staff of the
Project Management Unit (PMU), which had been established under a different Bank project to
handle procurement matters, was also a problem during most of the early stages of
implementation. The institution of regular meetings of a Project Implementation Committee
improved implementation. However, the Government of Ghana was slow in making available its
matching funds, which often hampered the progress of the project activities.
18.     While the literacy teaching itself was able to continue despite institutional weaknesses,
important activities such as research, monitoring and evaluation, supervision, and the delivery of
supplies suffered due to the weak in-house capacity of the NFED. Project managers secured
some technical assistance to improve monitoring and evaluation late in the project. Forward
planning for the training of supervisors and facilitators was uneven, but improved during the last
two years of the project. The production of classroom materials was delayed several times
because no one was willing to make relatively minor small decisions. Several key management
problems were resolved in the last two years of the project, which resulted in a concomitant
improvement in the performance of the project.



v
19.     The project was not very successful in printing and distributing reading materials in
local languages in order to establish a literate environment for learners, although it did succeed in
ensuring that the content of the literacy lessons was tailored to the practical needs of the learners.
The BIA reported that the radio component was successful, and this will be evaluated in detail
during the preparation of the subsequent project. The project's scheme to provide small loans to
groups of learners who wished to start an income-generating activity initially benefited about 76
groups. The impact of this component will also be evaluated as part of the preparation of the next
project.
20.     Project planners underestimated the difficulties that would be involved for the NFED in
collaborating with other institutions, such as the GBC, the GBPA, the NBSSI, the universities,
and the New Times Corporation. These difficulties initially slowed down some of the project
activities (such as the dissemination of books in local languages, some income-generating
activities, and applied research). However, it is not clear that this should have been evident at the
time of appraisal.
21.     The emphasis put on establishing a strong monitoring and evaluation system was based
on the experience of other literacy programs, but the capacity of the NFED to carry out the
necessary work was overestimated. The monitoring and evaluation system improved during the
course of the project, although the original plan to introduce a decentralized research system was
not realized. The major restructuring of the monitoring and evaluation component occurred near
the end of the project and, thus, could not be evaluated.
The Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
22.     The World Bank's overall performance was satisfactory throughout the preparation and
implementation of the project. It ensured staff continuity on the project, providing guidance in
outlining the NFED's core activities and helping the institution to focus on the goals of the
project. The Bank was responsive to the NFED, giving advice and reacting to the staff's
requests in a timely fashion, being flexible in approving project activities using the Operational
Plan (which was adopted after the mid-term review as a way to coordinate all of the project's
activities), and reallocating funds to ensure the smooth implementation of the project. It
encouraged the NFED to assist other providers of literacy services, to contract out some of the
project activities for which it lacked a comparative advantage, and to revise its plans whenever
necessary to increase the project's impact. In addition, the Bank demonstrated its commitment to
the goals of the project by extending the project twice so that certain improvements could be
consolidated. When funding from the DFID became available during the latter half of the
implementation phase of the project, IDA and the DFID conducted joint missions to supervise the
project, which increased donor coordination. The joint aide-memoires issued at the end of these
missions helped to overcome several implementation problems.
23.     The contribution of the borrower -- the Government of Ghana -- was satisfactory. The
staff of the NFED showed a strong commitment to the goals of the program and worked hard to
improve their own skills over time. The performance of the NFED leadership was uneven and
often unsatisfactory but improved in the latter part of the project. High turnover of NFED staff
and leadership, often without the knowledge of donors, had a negative impact on the program..
The PMU's performance was satisfactory by and large, but it also had a high turnover of staff to
the detriment of the project. Over time, coordination between the PMU and the NFED
improved, which improved the implementation of the project.



vi
The Sustainability of the Literacy Programme
24.     There are three main sustainability issues: whether the Government of Ghana can
allocate adequate resources to the Literacy Programme, whether the NFED has the capacity to
ensure the quality of services it delivers, and whether graduates can sustain their level of literacy
after leaving the project. The estimated unit cost of the literacy training provided under the
project is about $29 per graduate.1 This is considerably lower than the annual cost for one year
of primary school, which amounts to $47.42. In other literacy programs in the developing world,
costs per learner are $37.61 in Bangladesh, $30.14 in Uganda, $173.28 in Senegal, and $99.27 in
El Salvador (Valerio, 1997). Despite the relatively low cost of the Ghana project, it is not clear
that the govermnent is committed to sustaining the project without the support of external donors.
25.     In terms of institutional sustainability, it seems clear the NFED has increased its
capacity to deliver services to large numbers of people, but it also needs to increase its capacity to
deliver the promised incentives to the facilitators to ensure that they remain committed to
continuing their teaching.
26.     The issue of whether graduates can sustain their literacy after completing the classes is
less clear. The activities of the LFSP that were designed to create a literate environment were not
very successful, so this question needs to be reviewed carefully when the next project is being
prepared. Much additional thought needs to be given to what are the best methods for providing
reading materials to learners. The current use of the silk-screen technology in the production of
the community newspapers has great potential for strengthening community-level activities.
Alternative ways of promoting the production of written materials in local languages should also
be explored.
Key Lessons Learned
27.      Some important lessons can be drawn from how the project was implemented. The
lessons learned even from the less successful components will be useful inputs into subsequent
projects in the same field.
*  In a large project, it is important to contract out peripheral elements to allow the staff of the
implementing agency to focus on the primary goals of the project.
*  Large-scale projects require high levels of political support and commitment as well as strong
participation and acceptance at the grassroots level both by the communities and their
leaders.
*  Strong and stable leadership of the top project management is key to providing direction,
guidance, and support to staff at all levels. When this is lacking, the project suffers
substantially.
These costs are calculated based on total project costs minus costs for post-literacy materials, radio
equipment, and infrastructure. The number of completed learners is based on information from
NFED records, the 1997 leamers assessment, and an estimate of the number of learners that have
completed their first year who will complete the two-year cycle.



vii
* The project must be responsive to the needs and perceptions of the learners. As such, it
should be designed to be flexible to enable it to adjust to local conditions, (such as harvest
seasons and migration patterns) within a framework of agreed parameters and indicators of
quality (such as the duration of the instruction, class attendance, and learning outcomes).
*  The project can play an important role in the community by incorporating development
activities into the regular class schedule and involving learners in related schemes foi
improving the local community.
* For Ghana to eradicate illiteracy, the formal and non-formal education sectors must join
forces to ensure that their respective programs are cost-effective and of high quality. Also,
the implementing agency must help non-government lproviders of literacy services by
providing them with technical assistance and teaching materials.
*  Literacy instruction is more likely to be effective and to sustain participants' motivation when
it is carried out in circumstances where it is clear to the learners that being literate will
improve their daily lives.
*  Literacy interventions need to be continually monitored to ensure that they are effective. To
this effect, the research and evaluation capacity of organizations like the NFED will either
have to be significantly strengthened or local consultants will have to develop the expertise to
service these organizations.
28.     As a result of the LFSP, the NFED has a good institutional foundation on which to
build a subsequent literacy project. The basic systems are in place. Preparatory activities for
future projects should examine in more detail the results of some of the elements of the project
such as teaching methods, instructional materials, support to income-generating activities, the
radio programs, and the impact of development inputs to determine whether or not to continue
these activities and, if so, the best ways to increase their effectiveness.
29.     Having successfully established a large-scale project, any future project should
concentrate on improving the quality of services delivered rather than rapidly expanding the
quantity of services available. The next project should place more emphasis on the quality of the
literacy classes, on the monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes, on post-literacy activities, on
building a literate environment, and on improving the coordination of the project's activities with
those of other development agencies and literacy providers.
30.     The NFED needs to reflect on its mission and its comparative advantage as the agency
responsible for coordinating Ghana's non-for mal education activities and for implementing the
National Functional Literacy Programme. In consultation with stakeholders and beneficiaries,
the Government of Ghana needs to determine how the program can best cater to the needs of the
target population and become more cost-effective.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
(Cr. 2349-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
A.      THE WORLD BANK'S SUPPORT FOR LITERACY
1.     The economic decline that Ghana suffered from the early 1970s to the mid-1980s
adversely affected the country's social indicators, particularly within the education sector. This
led the IMF, the World Bank, and other donors to become involved in an Economic Recovery
Program (ERP), which for over 15 years has attempted to stabilize the Ghanaian economy. In
1989, the Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS) found that only 32 percent of people aged 15
and older were literate. Primary school enrollments had gone down from 80 percent in 1980 to 74
percent in 1989 as a result of the economic decline, but they then recovered to 77 percent in
1992/93, four years after the start of the ERP. The most recent figures (1996) indicate that
enrollment in primary school (6 to 11 year olds) is 75 percent and in junior secondary school (12
to 15 year olds) is 58 percent. Government spending on education has increased steadily during
the course of the literacy project from 3.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 4.7 percent of GDP in 1996.
In 1998, 43 percent of the Ministry of Education's budget is allocated to primary schools, 22.4
percent is allocated to junior secondary schools, 16.4 percent is allocated to senior secondary
schools, 12.1 percent is allocated to tertiary education, and 0.58 percent is allocated to non-
formal education, which includes adult literacy.
2.      Between the World Bank's fiscal year 1970 and fiscal year 1990, one-fifth of its
projects in low-income countries contained an element of literacy training, but these accounted
for only 1 percent of project costs. Since 1991, the Bank has approved only four self-standing
literacy programs out of a total of 164 education projects (spending only about US$110 million
out of a total of US$12 billion). These four projects were the Indonesia Third Non-formal
Education Project of 1991 (CR-343 10), the Ghana Functional Skills and Literacy Project of 1992
(CR-2349); the Senegal Pilot Female Literacy Project of 1996 (CR-28730), and the Bangladesh
Non-formal Education Project of 1996 (CR-28220).
3.      There are now signs that adult literacy programs are receiving more support and
emphasis from donors for a number of reasons (Eisemon et al 1995). First, reaching
communities in remote rural areas requires making a special effort, and these communities may
be better served by alternatives to traditional schooling. Second, economic and political turmoil
in many countries has limited the number of opportunities available to many young adults to
learn. Third, efforts by governments to expand the formal education system and to provide high-
quality education have been undermined by severe economic decline in many countries,



2
particularly in Africa. Thus, what is needed are cost-effective programs that teach basic literacy
skills to adults with little or no formal schooling in order to increase their productivity.
4.     In Ghana, since the ERP was instituted, the Bank and the Government of Ghana have
completed five projects in the education sector, including the Literacy and Functional Skills
Project (Cr. 2349-GH), the Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-GH), the EDSAC (Cr. 1744-
GH), the EDSAC II (Cr. 2140-GH), and the Community Secondary Schools Construction Project
(Cr. 2278-GH). There are four additional projects currently being implemented: the Tertiary
Education Project (Cr. 2428-GH), the Primary School Development Project (PSDP), the
Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Project (Cr. 2695-GH), and the Basic Education Sector
Improvement Program (BESIP). Two operations have been proposed in the Bank's sectoral
lending program: Functional Literacy II, and the Post-Basic Education Project.
B.      OBJECTIVES OF THE LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
5.      The Literacy and Functional Skills Project (LFSP) was designed to support the National
Functional Literacy Programme, which the government initiated in 1990 after the 1989 census
showed that the level of illiteracy among Ghanaians aged 15 and over was as high as 67 percent.
The government hoped that the Literacy Programme would dramatically reduce illiteracy in
Ghana within a decade.
6.      The overarching objective of the LFSP was to improve the quality of life of the poorest
Ghanaians, especially those in rural areas, by providing them with basic literacy and numeracy
skills and new knowledge and attitudes. In particular, the project stressed the need to make
learners "functionally" literate, in other words, to apply their new skills in practice in their daily
lives. The project's specific objectives were:
- To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Non-formal Education Division (which was
established in 1986 under the Ministry of Education to coordinate all non-formal education
activities in Ghana) to manage the entire Literacy Programme effectively
* To ensure that all of the aspects of the project were subject to frequent evaluation and
monitoring and that research and evaluation were key inputs in the development of any new
initiatives
* To improve the existing Literacy Programme so that a large proportion of the 840,000 adults
who would be allowed to participate would become functionally literate
* To ensure that all new literates, whether from the school system or from the literacy project,
had access to a range of reading materials in the Ghanaian languages
* To expand the coverage of the FM broadcasting system to support the Literacy Programme
and to increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in the Ghanaian languages.
Project Description and Components
7.      The LFSP contained the following elements: (i) institutional support; (ii) research,
monitoring, and evaluation; (iii) classroom teaching; (iv) a system of supervisors to monitor the
attendance and progress of learners and the performance of the facilitators; (v) classroom



3
materials and learner motivation; (vi) the creation of a literate environment; (vii) radio studio and
transmission facilities; (viii) post-literacy classes; and (ix) assistance to NGOs.
8.     Institutional Support. When the Non-formal Education Division (NFED) was first set
up in 1986, it was a loose organization comprised of staff who were more familiar with the
formal education system than with managing and delivering a non-formal literacy program.
Thus, it was essential to strengthen the institutional capacity of the NFED. To this end, the
British Overseas Development Agency (ODA, now the Department for International
Development: DFID), carried out a study to determine the most effective institutional structure
for the NFED. Under the LFSP, a management structure was put in place to manage and
coordinate the activities of the NFED, and in-service training was organized for staff at the
central, regional, and district levels.
9.      Research, Monitoring, and Evaluation. This component of the LFSP was designed to
increase the effectiveness of the NFED by investigating smaller literacy initiatives in Ghana and
by researching ways to make the program more effective (for example, by improving reading
materials, lighting systems, the management information system, and learning outcomes). To this
end, the project aimed to create a central Research Unit, to train all regional staff in research
techniques, and to designate monitoring and evaluation officers at the regional and district offices
of the NFED. In addition, the NFED was to devote considerable resources to a program of
external research and evaluation under the supervision of a multi-disciplinary group from three
Ghanaian universities responsible for approving proposals and administering a specially created
Research Fund.
10.     Classroom Teaching. During the pre-appraisal and appraisal phases of the LFSP,
important changes were made to the content of the literacy courses to be taught under the project
and to teaching methods to be used. The tradition of rote learning and syllable drills was
abandoned in favor of the Freireian approach comprised of key words and slogans. The classes
would emphasize the functional aspects of literacy (in other words, the ways in which being
literate would help learners in their daily lives). Also, there would be discussions about
development in the classes and the learners would be involved in related activities for improving
the local community. The acquisition of functional numeracy was stressed, because learners had
expressed their desire to be able to calculate prices in the market place and in other financial
transactions. The project was particularly designed to address the special needs of women in
such areas as nutrition and child care. The training given to facilitators and supervisors would
also emphasize Freireian techniques and followed the "cascade" approach, whereby a national
training team would train the regional teams, who in turn would train the district teams. Literacy
teachers at the community level (facilitators) taught on a voluntary basis and were motivated by
incentives such as gifts of bicycles and sewing machines, which were distributed according to
criteria laid out by NFED management.
11.     Supervision System. Supervisors were seen as providing the critical link between the
NFED's district offices and the literacy classes. They were to verify the existence of the classes
and to monitor the attendance and progress of the learners, and the performance of the
facilitators. The NFED arranged for the National Service Secretariat (NSS) and the Ghana
National Association of Teachers (GNAT) to be responsible for supervising the Literacy
Programme nationwide. NFED district officers in turn were responsible for monitoring the
performance of the NSS and GNAT supervisors. The supervisors received training and teaching
materials similar to those given to the facilitators and, in addition, they received training in



4
monitoring and evaluation methods and in Freireian teaching techniques to enable them to work
with the facilitators. Their incentives included being given a bicycle (to help them to cover long
distances between literacy education centers) and a radio set. At a later stage, they were to be
trained to ride a motorcycle, which they would be given if they met criteria laid down by the
NFED.
12.    Classroom Materials and Learner Motivation. The materials to be given to learners
upon enrollment were a literacy primer, an exercise book, a slate, a pencil, and an eraser. Upon
completing the basic literacy cycle, learners were to be given two functional reading books. For
self-improvement activities related to lessons in the primer, the project provided development
inputs such as vegetable seeds (for lesson related to nutrition), oral rehydration salts (for lessons
on the treatment of diarrhea), muslin cloth (for lessons on safe drinking water), tree seeds and
plastic bags (for lessons on the environment), and red powder (to demonstrate how flies transmit
disease). Following a protocol signed between the NFED and the National Bureau for Small-
Scale Industries (NBSSI), the project provided small loans to groups of learners who wished to
start an income-generating activity such as garri production (processed cassava), fish smoking,
bread making, and kente weaving.
13.    Creating a Literate Environment: One key element of the project was to ensure that
graduates from both the formal and non-formal education systems had access to sufficient
reading materials in the local languages to prevent them from lapsing back into illiteracy. To
achieve this end, the NFED undertook to:
* publish and distribute a community newspaper in 15 local languages under protocols with
New Times Corp6ration, the Gonja Literacy Project, and the GILLBT
* commission the publication of books in all 15 local languages and to assemble book boxes
that each consisted of 20 of these volumes, with one book box being shared between two
classes
- subsidize a part of the book production costs of the Ghana Book Publishers Association
(GBPA) depending on the language in which the book in question was being published, the
size of its likely market, and the complexity of the material that it covered.
* encourage local communities to produce their own reading materials using low- cost silk-
screen technology.
14.    Using Radio Studio and Transmission Facilities. During the pilot phase of the Literacy
Programme which was supported by ODA, one FM radio station in Ho in the Volta Region and
one in Tamale in the Northern Region were selected to be rehabilitated under an agreement
between the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) and the NFED. In return, these stations
were to air education, literacy, and development programs in selected local languages during at
least 60 percent of their peak listening hours.
15.    Post-literacy Classes. It became evident during the pilot phase of the Literacy
Programme that not all learners were entirely new to literacy. Some of them had dropped
out of elementary school and needed a chance to begin their education again and perhaps
to return to the formal school system. Therefore, the needs of this group were different
from those of learners who were entering a classroom for the first time. Thus, post-
literacy classes were to be organized for this group as part of the LFSP. It was envisaged
that graduates of the basic literacy cycle would eventually take the post-literacy classes as



5
a way to sustain their newly acquired functional literacy. An English language pilot
scheme for literacy in English was also designed to target this group.
16.    Assisting the Literacy Efforts of NGOs. Under the terms of the project, the NFED
would train facilitators for and provide literacy materials to any NGO (particularly church-based
organizations) that could put together a literacy class of at least 25 participants. The NFED also
liaised with larger NGOs that were already operating their own literacy programs throughout
Ghana.
Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
17.     Credit covenants were primarily in the areas of disbursement and procurement and all
of them were complied with (see Part II, Table 8). The NFED entered into special agreements
with other institutions in Ghana to deliver the various components of the LFSP. Most of the
covenants concerned disbursement and procurement issues. The NFED entered into special
arrangements with the National Bureau of Small-scale Industries (NBSSI) to oversee the income-
generation activities under the project. The NFED would evaluate and recommend the groups
who were most suitable to participate in the credit scheme and train them, while the NBSSI
would process the loans. To encourage the publication of reading materials in Ghanaian
languages, the NFED collaborated with the Ghana Book Publishers Association (GBPA) in terms
of funding and marketing. The Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) participated in the LFSP
by agreeing to air the literacy programs produced by the NFED on radio stations in the Tamale
and H6 districts. An agreement between the NFED and the New Times Corporation enabled the
printing of a community newspaper in the 12 languages of the southern sector and its distribution
to the literacy classes. A similar agreement between the NFED and the Gonja Literacy Project
and the GILLBT enabled the printing and distribution of community newspapers to the northern
sector.
Costs and Financing Arrangements
18.    From the beginning, the LFSP was supported by the IDA Credit and an IDA-
administered grant from the Kingdom of Norway. The project greatly benefited from the
involvement of the DFID, while UNICEF initially provided support for the training of
trainers but gradually phased it out. The Literacy Programme was estimated to cost US$
30.9 million, with financing coming from IDA (US$17.4 million), the Kingdom of
Norway (US$2.9 million), UNICEF (US$0.6 million), and the Government of Ghana
(US$10 million). The DFID participated in the Programme, contributing some of its
support by providing resident technical assistance to the NFED. Because of the
depreciation of the Cedi and various implementation issues, the actual project cost only
US$27.4 million or 90 percent of the total estimated cost.
Implementation Schedule
19.     The National Adult Literacy Programme was started in 1990 by a special government
task force. The task force studied existing literacy programs in Ghana, undertook study tours of
literacy endeavors in other African countries, and drew upon the Bank's 1989 Sector Study:
"Basic Education for Self-Employment and Rural Development." Early in January 1991, the



6
government submitted its project proposal to the World Bank, and, by the end of January, a joint
mission of staff from the Bank and ODA was organized to evaluate the government's proposal.
The outcome was a set of recommendations to improve the Literacy Programme's reading
materials, training programs, radio support activities, organization, and staffing. The Literacy
and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH) was reviewed by the Board on March 26, 1992,
signed on April 22, 1992, and became effective on July 21, 1992 with a closing date of June 30,
1995. The project closing date was extended twice to allow for the strengthening of NFED
management capacity and the implementation of such project activities as the English Pilot
scheme and the community newspaper. The project finally closed on December 31, 1997.
Mid-term Review
20.    During the project's Mid-Term Review in April 1994, the following agreements were
reached: (i) to extend the basic literacy cycle from one year to two years; (ii) to conduct
systematic learner assessments to evaluate the extent to which those who participated in the
project acquired literacy skills; (iii) to request the NFED to collaborate with a research institution
to strengthen the research and monitoring component; (iv) to provide certificates to final-year
learners/graduates of the project; and (v) to increase the role played by the regional and district
offices of the NFED in supervising the project supervision. An Operational Plan prepared as a
result of the mid-term review was not fully utilized initially but later improved the planning and
the monitoring of the project.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.      PROJECT OUTCOMES AND IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
21.     This section reviews the outcomes of the LFSP relative to its objectives, both in overall
terms and then by component. It also reviews the experience of implementing the project,
including the performance of both the Bank and the Government of Ghana. Finally, it outlines
some questions about the sustainability of the literacy initiative in Ghana.
B.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
Project Results and Outcomes
22.     The overarching objective of the project was improving the quality of life of the
poorest Ghanaians by providing literacy training. This was vital because poverty and illiteracy
are closely linked in Ghana. The more specific project objectives were pertinent to the country's
needs but were somewhat ambitious given the weak capacity of the NFED and the large number
of people who were expected to participate in the project's literacy classes.



7
23.     Nevertheless, the objective of providing literacy training to 840,000 learners was not
only attained but even surpassed, partly as a result of the project being extended twice. About
1,373,571 learners enrolled (as of December 1997), of whom 726,714 (as of June 1997) had
completed the training. The two learner assessments undertaken in the last two years of the
project demonstrated that learners succeeded in acquiring literacy and numeracy skills, with
scores in reading being significantly higher than in writing. The level of illiteracy found in the
1987 census was 67 percent of the population over the age of 15. The most recent data (1997)
show that this has dropped to 51 percent. It can be assumed that much of this decline is due to
the people who completed the literacy courses under the LFSP.
24.     The low drop-out rates for learners (about 22 percent) and high retention rates for the
volunteer facilitators (over 85 percent), often a problem in literacy programs, indicate that there
was a strong demand for literacy, and that the learners and facilitators were highly motivated.
Implementation of the project was helped by very high demand for literacy, particularly among
the 25 to 44 age group. This provided a large pool of people motivated to take the courses over a
fairly long period. Qualitative research indicates a variety of reasons for attending literacy
classes including the desire to avoid being cheated in financial transactions, the need to read
instructions on agro-chemical packages, the belief that literacy was a prerequisite for improved
social status, the desire to send and receive mail without assistance and the need to keep accurate
accounts.
25.     The project was in many ways self-targeting, since only illiterates would be interested
in participating and most illiterates were poor. It helped to counter regional disparities in access
to basic education, as 67 percent of the learners were from the northern sector compared to only
17 percent from the Greater Accra area. Sixty percent of the learners were women, and 70
percent of them had had no formal schooling before starting the courses provided by the project.
26.     On the NFED monitoring visits, it became clear that learners are demonstrating their
increased appreciation for education by enrolling their children in primary school, thereby
expanding enrollments at that level. The Beneficiary Impact Assessment mentioned that there
has been an increase in self-esteem among learners and an increase in awareness of the choices
available to them in such areas as family planning, health and hygiene, agricultural practices,
preservation of the environment, and civic awareness
The Success of Each Project Component
27.     The extent to which the project's overall objectives were achieved was dependent on
the success or failure of each individual component of the project.
28.     Institutional Strengthening. At the outset of the project, the NFED's management
capacity was weak. Managers changed frequently, and there was often no identifiable leader of
the institution. Initially, the staff and management of the NFED had difficulty understanding the
project as it had many different components. This meant that they felt little ownership of the
project.
29.     Considerable effort went into building the capacity of the agency and with some
success, so that, by the end of the project, the NFED had increased its capacity to deliver literacy
services to large numbers of people. This improvement was particularly evident after the mid-



8
term review. The main emphasis of the capacity building effort was put on training facilitators,
supervisors, district and regional staff, and central management. Furthermore, the director of
administration and- finance benefited from long-term technical assistance given to the agency by
the British, although this assistance did not provide the transfer of skills envisaged.
30.     Capacity problems related to the procurement of materials remained an issue
throughout the project. In particular, the lack of a clearly defined arrangement between NFED
and the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Education led to significant delays in
the procurement of project inputs. A significant failure was that the NFED did not develop the
capacity to help other providers to deliver literacy services, which had been an important aspect
of the original project proposal. In addition, the agency failed to implement procedures designed
to improve the quality of the services delivered. Nevertheless, the institutional reforms of the
NFED introduced by the project have made it a stronger agency, better able to deliver literacy
services.
31.     Research, Monitoring and Evaluation. Research activities were slow to get off the
ground. As planned, a research advisory committee was established in 1993/94 with members
from both the NFED and the universities. This committee reviewed proposals and organized
some training on research methodology. However, proposals were too academic and not geared
to helping NFED improve its program and the long approval process for proposals (which
involved the NFED, the advisory committee, the Ministry of Education, and the World Bank)
meant that no useful research was commissioned. Thus, the committee was discontinued.
32.     Other problems encountered in the research component were: (i) poor procurement
planning and a lack of appropriate hardware and software; (ii) a lack of appropriate research
capacity at all levels; and (iii) the fact that NFED staff had too many demands on their time from
other project activities. The research component, as originally designed, required unrealistically
high levels of research capacity at both the central and the decentralized levels of the NFED,
which is main reason why the planned decentralization of research activities never materialized..
33.     In an effort to strengthen the research program, the NFED and Nuffic/CESO (of the
Netherlands) established a partnership to develop a system for designing and conducting field
research on topics that would make the Literacy Programme more effective. This partnership
reinvigorated the research program and produced recommendations on how to restructure it to
make it more effective and operationally oriented. The pace of research increased in the last two
years of the project, mainly as a result of the technical assistance provided by Nuffic/CESO.
Several studies were conducted, as a result of which adjustments were made to the way in which
the project was being implemented (see Part II, Table 6). Nevertheless, this component of the
project was never sufficiently strong.
34.     In setting the objective of establishing a strong monitoring and evaluation system for
overseeing the activities of the Literacy Programme, project planners overestimated the capacity
of the NFED to carry out the necessary work. The basic monitoring system that was established
was sound, but, in practice, it suffered from the following problems: (i) important information
was not collected (for example, on completion rates, facilitator drop-out rates, and the number of
classes that stopped in mid-cycle); (ii) little checking was done of the validity of the information
provided; (iii) field staff did not understand the importance of providing accurate information;
(iv) there was little feedback from the NFED headquarters on the information collected; and (v),



9
when these data were analyzed, the findings of this analysis were not used to modify the project
activities. Also, supervision, an important part of any monitoring and evaluation system, was
weak, due to logistical problems and to a lack of capacity among the supervisors.
35.     The NFED's collaboration with Nuffic/CESO provided an opportunity to revise the
monitoring system. New data collection forms were designed, based on the needs of different
groups involved in the programme. A new plan for collecting data was prepared, and training
programs were designed to ensure that all of the different actors in the system understood their
roles and the importance of collecting accurate data. These revisions were only introduced
towards the end of the project, so it has not been possible to evaluate their impact.
36.     Classroom Teaching. The project was able to recruit and retain a large number of
dedicated volunteer facilitators (with a retention rate of over 85 percent). Many facilitators have
even taught for several literacy cycles without receiving the promised incentives.
37.     Supervision System. The importance of supervision to the success of the literacy classes
was not fully appreciated initially by NFED. Field supervisors were selected for reasons other
than their technical qualifications and level of commitment to the project so that many of them
were neither competent nor motivated. Poor supervision was demoralizing for learners and
facilitators and had a negative impact on the monitoring and evaluation system.
38.     Classroom Materials and Learner Motivation. As its title indicates, the LFSP stressed
the importance of the functional aspects of literacy teaching so that lesson content was tailored to
the practical needs of the learners. This proved to be a big factor in stimulating demand for the
project's literacy course.
39.     The project also increased learners' awareness of important development issues in the
areas of agriculture, health, family planning, and nutrition, sometimes with the help of staff of
ministries such as health, agriculture, and forestry, staff of NGOs, and community leaders. No
evaluation has been done of the actual impact of the development activities undertaken as part of
the literacy project, so it is impossible to draw a conclusion about the effectiveness of these
activities. However, it is known that, in some communities, participating in development
activities changed the attitudes and behavior of both participants and their neighbors.
40.     As part of this component, the project introduced a small loans scheme to fund groups
of newly literate people who wished to set up income-generating activities. Initially, this scheme
benefited about 76 groups. However, delivering and recovering small loans requires skills that
the NFED does not possess and should not try to acquire. This was recognized during the
preparation of the project, and the contract with the NBSSI was meant to address this issue.
Unfortunately, the NBSSI itself did not possess the required outreach capacity and instead relied
on the NFED to evaluate potential beneficiaries and to administer the credit scheme, which was
the situation that project planners wished to avoid in the first place.
41.     Institutional weaknesses affected the provision of classroom materials. For example,
there were often delays in the producing and supplying them to the classes because of weak
planning and management.
42.     Creating a Literate Environment. Based on the experience of other literacy programs,
the project emphasized establishing a literate environment to support learners while they



10
completed the basic literacy cycle and after they graduated. However, the NFED's collaboration
with GBPA to promote the printing of reading materials in local languages was not satisfactorily
completed. Only six marketing events were held. The NFED doubled the quantities of post-
literacy materials procured from the GBPA to distribute in the project's book boxes, but the
materials provided under the agreement were not as varied as desired.
43.    Initially, the newspapers to be distributed to the literacy classes in their local languages
were produced centrally, but, as a result, their distribution was sporadic and inopportune, and the
news was often very stale by the time it reached the classes. In response to these problems, the
NFED decided that community newspapers should be produced at the district level using a simple
silk-screen technology. In some districts, this has worked quite well, but in others, particularly in
the north, there have been logistical problems, requiring further training and supervision of those
producing the newspapers.
44.     Using Radio Studio and Transmission Facilities. In support of the functional aspect of
the classes, the NFED arranged to broadcast its literacy material on two FM radio stations. The
two stations at H6 and Tamale covered five languages. According to the Beneficiary Impact
Assessment, the demand for these radio programs among the learners who spoke these languages
was high, and learners made positive comments about the content of the broadcasts.
Unfortunately, the NFED was not able to exploit the medium fully due to the limited range of the
broadcasts and problems with the GBC in broadcasting relevant programs. The BIA reports that
the radio component was successful, and it will be evaluated in detail during the preparation of
the subsequent project.
45.     Post-literacy Classes. No separate evaluation of these activities has been done.
46.    Assisting the Literacy efforts of NGOs. While NFED did collaborate with some NGOs
involved in literacy training, it did not play the facilitating and coordinating role that had been
envisaged.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.      ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
47.    Implementing the LFSP yielded a number of unexpected problems and consequences.
For example, project planners underestimated the difficulties that the NFED would have in
collaborating with other institutions (such as the GBC, the GBPA, the NBSSI, the universities,
and the New Times Corporation). These difficulties initially slowed down progress towards
attaining some of the project's objectives such as the dissemination of books in local languages,
income-generating activities, and applied research. However, it is not clear that this would have
been evident at the time of the project's appraisal.



11
47. The working relationship between the NFED and the PMU was also problematic during most
of the early stages of implementation. The institution of regular meetings of an Implementation
Committee alleviated some of these problems.
48. The project received high-level political support, but the Government of Ghana was slow in
delivering its counterpart funding, which often hampered project activities.
The Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
50.     The World Bank's overall performance was satisfactory throughout the preparation and
implementation of the project. It ensured staff continuity on the project, providing guidance in
outlining the NFED's core activities and helping the institution to focus on the goals of the
project. The Bank was responsive to the NFED, giving advice and reacting to the staff's requests
in a timely fashion, being flexible in approving project activities using the Operational Plan and
reallocating funds to ensure the smooth implementation of the project. It encouraged the NFED
to increase its outreach to other providers of literacy, to contract out some project activities for
which it lacked a comparative advantage, and to revise its plans whenever necessary to increase
the project's impact. In addition, the Bank demonstrated its commitment to the goals of the
project by extending it twice, so improvements could be consolidated.
51. The contribution of the borrower -- the Government of Ghana -- was satisfactory. The staff of
the NFED showed a strong commitment to the goals of the project and worked hard to improve their
own skills over time. The performance of the NFED leadership was uneven and sometimes
unsatisfactory but improved in the latter part of the project. High turnover of NFED staff and
leadership, often without the knowledge of donors, had a negative impact on the project. The
PMU's performance was satisfactory by and large, but it also had a high turnover of staff to the
detriment of the project. Over time, coordination between the PMU and the NFED improved,
which improved the implementation of the project.
The Sustainability of the Literacy Programme
52.     There are three main sustainability issues: whether the Government of Ghana will
allocate adequate resources to the Literacy Programme, whether the NFED has the capacity to
ensure the quality of services it delivers, and whether graduates can sustain their level of literacy
after leaving the project. The estimated unit cost of the literacy training provided under the
project is about $29 per graduate.2 This is considerably lower than the annual cost for one year
of primary school, which amounts to $47.42. In other literacy programs, costs per learner are
$37.61 in Bangladesh, $30.14 in Uganda, $173.28 in Senegal, and $99.27 in El Salvador
(Valerio, 1997). Despite the relatively low cost of the Ghana project, it is not clear that the
government is committed to sustaining the project without the support of external donors.
53.     In terms of institutional sustainability, it seems clear the NFED has increased its
capacity to deliver services to large numbers of people, but it also needs to increase its capacity to
2   These costs are calculated based on total project costs minus costs for post-literacy materials, radio
equipment, and infrastructure. The number of completed learners is based on information from
NFED records, the 1997 learners assessment, and an estimate of the number of learners that have
completed their first year who will complete the two-year cycle.



12
deliver the promised incentives to the facilitators to ensure that they remain committed to
continuing their teaching.
54.     The issue of whether graduates can sustain their literacy after completing the classes is
less clear. The activities of the LFSP that were designed to create a literate environment were not
very successful, so this question needs to be reviewed carefully when the next project is being
prepared. Much additional thought needs to be given to the best methods for providing reading
materials to learners. The current use of the silk-screen technology in the production of the
community newspapers has great potential for strengthening community-level activities.
Alternative ways of promoting the production of written materials in local languages should also
be explored.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.      IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
55.     This section examines the lessons learned from LFSP, lessons which have important
implications for the planning and implementation of future literacy projects in Ghana and
elsewhere.
56.    Important Lessons from the Project. There are several general lessons to be learned
from the way in which the LFSP was implemented.
*  In large projects, it is important to contract out peripheral elements in order to allow the staff
of the implementing agency to focus on the primary goals of the project.
*  Large-scale projects require high levels of political support and commitment as well as strong
participation and acceptance at the grassroots level both by the communities involved and
their leaders.
*  Strong and stable leadership at the top of the institution managing the project is very
important for providing direction, guidance, and support to staff at all levels. When this is
lacking, the project suffers substantially.
* The project must be responsive to the needs and perceptions of learners. As such, it should be
designed in a flexible way to enable it to be adjusted to suit local conditions (such as harvest
seasons and migration) within a framework of agreed parameters and indicators of quality
(such as the duration of instruction, class attendance, and learning outcomes).
*  Literacy projects can play an important role in community development by incorporating
development activities into the regular class schedule and involving learners in related
activities for improving the local community.



13
*  For Ghana to eradicate illiteracy, the formal and non-formal education sectors must join
forces to ensure that their respective programs are cost-effective and of high quality. Also,
the implementing agency must help non-government providers of literacy services by
providing them with technical assistance and teaching materials.
*  Literacy instruction is more likely to be effective and to sustain participants' motivation when
it is carried out in circumstances where it is clear to the learners that being literate will
improve their daily lives.
*  Literacy interventions need to be continually monitored to ensure that they are effective. To
this effect, the research and evaluation capacity of organizations like the NFED will either
have to be significantly strengthened or local consultants will need to develop the expertise to
service these organizations.
57.     In addition, there are some lessons to be learned from the experience of implementing
the specific components of LFSP.
58.     Institutional Strengthening. While the NFED has increased its capacity to deliver
services to large numbers of people, it still needs to increase its capacity to provide effective
supervision and to provide incentives to the facilitators to ensure their commitment to continuing
their teaching. The supervision of facilitators has been weak, as has the supervision of the
supervisors by district office staff.
59.     Community Development. The participation of communities in the project is important
since the acquisition of literacy and functional skills is intricately linked to community activities.
The BIA indicated that the most successful classes in terms of retention rates were those that
were strongly supported by the local community. However, the relationship that the project has
with local communities must be carefully thought out to avoid promising more than can be
delivered in terms of complementary inputs such as credit. The support given by community
leaders to local administrators of the project is especially critical for sustaining the commitment
of the learners and facilitators, particularly considering the impact that the project is likely to
have on the community as a whole, learners and non-learners alike.
60.     Functionality. The results of the BIA showed that one of the great attractions of the
project to potential learners was the functional aspect of the curriculum. Learners were interested
in acquiring skills and practices that would allow them to increase their social and economic
potential. According to the BIA, acquiring these skills gave learners greater self-esteem.
However, the BIA also concluded that acquiring new knowledge did not often translate into
behavioral change. For example, the learners were taught in the project classes that standing
water around residences breeds mosquitoes and can lead to malaria. Nevertheless, the homes of
learners who were visited during the BIA were surrounded by pools of mosquito-infested water.
Thus, it is advisable to strengthen the links between the lessons taught in the classes and the
practical community-level efforts of NGOs, donors, and the Ministries of Health and
Agriculture.
61.     Planning. It was found that advance planning to recruit facilitators, to acquire inputs,
and to design training courses for facilitators is critical to ensure that classes follow an agreed



14
schedule. Also, the Operational Plan was found to be a useful management tool to link the
various elements and activities of the project. .
62.     Training. The training of facilitators and supervisors must be active and participatory.
It should train them not only to teach literacy but also to lead class discussions on development
issues and to facilitate development activities. In light of the fact that training is a critical
element of the Literacy Programme and incurs significant recurrent costs, it is vital that the
training be both effective and sustainable. In this context, the cascade methodology should be
reevaluated.
63.     Facilitators. So far, offering incentives to facilitators as rewards for their good
performance has been effective, even though project management has had problems in delivering
the incentives. However, it may be necessary to offer facilitators more regular compensation in
the future to ensure their good performance over the longer term. It is important that appropriate
criteria are used to select facilitators and these criteria should be uniformly applied.
64.     Supervision. Although supervision has been decentralized, this has not really worked,
and sanctions have not been enforced. If a second phase of the project is to be funded, the
NFED will need to propose a viable supervision system including a reexamination of the
qualifications expected of a supervisor.
65. Materials in Local Languages. The efforts to establish a literate environment have been
disappointing, due in part to the GBPA's failure to comply with the agreement that it had with the
NFED to produce reading materials in the 15 Ghanaian languages covered by the project.
However, given the complexity of this task, further reflections on the best way to sustain a best
way to sustain a literate environment would be useful. One book box containing a wide variety
of titles should be assigned to each class and should be made available to both learners and the
community.
66.     Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation systems need to be established
from the start of the project, with baseline data and clear indicators to assess learning
achievement and other benefits. The timely collection and processing of relevant and reliable
data is critical for assessing the impact of the project and for making necessary adjustments.
Applied research and, just as importantly, the application of these research findings are critical
for increasing the effectiveness of the project.
67.     Logistics. Over-centralized procurement can hinder the implementation of the project
on the ground. Consideration should be given to decentralizing the procurement of a selected
number of inputs. Ongoing capacity problems within the PMU will need to be solved before the
next phase of the project is implemented.
Summary
68.     As a result of the LFSP, the NFED has a good institutional foundation on which to
build a subsequent literacy project. The basic systems are in place. Planners of future projects
should examine the lessons from some of the components of the LFSP, including teaching
methods, instructional materials, income-generating activities, the radio programs, and the impact



15
of development inputs to determine whether or not to continue these activities and, if so, what are
the best ways to increase their effectiveness.
69.     Having successfully established a large-scale project, the Government of Ghana should
concentrate in the next project on improving the quality of services delivered rather than rapidly
expanding the quantity of services available. The next project should place more emphasis on the
quality of the literacy classes, on the monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes, on post-literacy
activities, on building a literate environment, and on improving the coordination of the project's
activities with those of other development agencies and literacy providers.
70.     The NFED needs to reflect on its mission and its comparative advantage as the agency
responsible for coordinating Ghana's non-formal education activities in the country and for
implementing the National Functional Literacy Programme. In consultation with stakeholders
and beneficiaries, the Government of Ghana needs to determine how the project can become
more cost-effective and best cater to the needs of the target population..



16
PART I1: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 1 0: Bank Resources: Missions



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives  Substantial   Partial   Negligible  Not applicable
Macro policies                                                     x
Sector policies            x
Financial objectives                                               x
Institutional development              x
Physical objectives        x
Poverty reduction                      x
Gender Issues              x
Other social objectives                                            x
Environmental objectives                                           x
Public sector management                                           x
Private sector development                                         x
B. Project sustainability        Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                             x
Preparation assistance                     x
Appraisal                                  x
Supervision                                x
Highly
D. Borrower Performance         Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                             x
Preparation assistance                     x
Appraisal                                  x
Supervision: NFED staff                     x
Management                                        x
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
x



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit title                     Purpose                        Year of   Status
.-__________________________________________ -approval
Preceding operations
1. Health and      The first "emergency" project in education and health  1986  Closed
Education Project   was designed to get textbooks, library books, writing       12/31/91
(Cr. 1653-GH)       materials and other essential supplies into the school
system as quickly as possible.
2. EDSAC I          First of a series of projects designed to support the  1987  Closed
(Cr. 1744-GH  )     Government's 1987 Education Reform Program,                 12/31/91
EDSAC I was a broad policy based SECAL covering
the entire education system, with a greater part of the
resources generated from the credit concentrated on the
JSS levels (grades 7-9). EDSAC I established the PMU
which has remained the project implementation facility
for Bank and other donors.
3.EDSAC 1I          EDSAC II was much like the first EDSAC but its main  1990    Closed
(Cr. 2140-GH)       policy framework dealt with school education and most
of the resources were concentrated in the Senior
Secondary School level.
4. Community        The project supported the construction of about 150  1991    Closed
Secondary Schools    Senior Secondary Schools by local communities in rural
Construction Project  areas to help expand access to education and improve
(Cr. 2278-GH)       equity, particularly for girls.
Ongoing operations:
1. Tertiary Education  The project supports the first phase of the government's   1993
Project (Cr. 2428-    tertiary education reform program, with stress on: (a)
(GfH)               quality improvement in teaching and learning; (b)
improved management; (c) increased autonomy with
accountability for the universities; and (d) a gradual
expansion of enrollments.
2. Primary School    The project assists the government in increasing   1993
Development Project  learning achievements and enrollments in primary
school.



19
3. Basic Education    The project seeks to: 1) improve the teaching process  1996
Sector Improvement  and learning outcomes; 2) strengthen management of
Project (Cr. -GH)  the basic education system through better planning,
monitoring and evaluation by the Ministry of Education
and Ghana Education, and by promoting active
involvement of communities in the management of
schools; 3) improve access to basic education,
especially of girls, the poor and other disadvantaged
segments of the population; and 4) ensure financial
sustainability of the government program for basic
education over the longer term.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned                Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                                         04/22/88
Preparation                                                            01/28/91
Appraisal                                                              06/24/91
Negotiations                                                           02/10/92
Board presentation                                                     03/26/92
Signing                                                                04/22/92
Effectiveness                                                          07/21/92
Project completion                                                     10/10/97
Loan closing                                                           12/31/97
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY1995  FY1996  FY1997   FY1998
Appraisal estimate     4.9      10.6      16.4      17.4
Actual           0.0       2.20      3.41      5.92     8.56    10.63
Actual as % of estimate           21%       21%       34%       49%     61%
Date of final                                                                 June,
disbursement                                                                  1998



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation**
OBJECTIVES              INDICATORS                 OUTCOME                   COMMENTS
No. of facilitators given      17,145                    39,239           The numbers of facilitators
initial training                                                     trained increased due to the
extension of the project
No. of supervisors given        1,126                     1,194           NFED zones changed with each
initial training                                                     literacy cycle, depending on #s
of classes per zone
Government's contribution   Determination of timely   Counterpart funding  Non-Formal share of 1998
to project account      monthly payment      endemic problem for       education budget = 0.58%
program;
Learner retention rates    Improvement over time    Over 80% completion rates  Learner retention rates were
high compared to other literacy
projects. Rate was more or less
constant throughout project
Facilitator retention rates    Improvement overtime     over 85%          Retention rates high compared
to other literacy projects.
Dedicated facilitators, many
without promised incentives;
____ _  _ _ __ ___________  may not be sustainable
Literacy/numeracy     Improvement since mid-   3 learner assessments   Increasingly positive results in
acquisition            term review        undertaken by NFED        reading and numeracy; poor
results in writing
Research program     Continued undertaking of  studies undertaken, some    Variable quality, difficult to
studies relevant to  by NFED and others with    connect study results to
program quality     help of external consultants  changes in project
Community Improvement  Improvement since Mid-  Considerable activity      No evaluation of development
Term Review        undertaken in forestry,   impact
agriculture, livestock,
handicrafts, school
construction.
Utility of Radio      Increase in listening     Utility of Radio not  BIA reports wide use of radios
audience from level at        evaluated         and high demand for radio
Mid-Term Review                                among leamers
Effective Demand for   Increase of sales of private  A total of 6 marketing
Reading Materials    publishers since Mid-Term  events to promote sales of
Review          GBPA books around the
country. No data on overall
sales.
Income-generating       Cash advances to 76   230 IGA groups supported   Demand for IGA support high;
activities            literacy groups          by IDA Credit       Repayment rates low.
Agreement with NBSSI not
successful
** Indicators presented are SAR project completion targets; whereas outcomes are those at project closing
on December 31, 1997.



22
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study              Status __                         Impact of study
I. Problems and Constraints   Completed   Revision of Incentives Package for LFSPII to attract more female
in Mobilization and                    Facilitators. Gender consultant was contracted.
Participation of Female
Learners in 2 selected
Districts in Ghana
2. Implementation of       Completed   Distinction made between development activities and reinforcement
Development Activities in              techniques. This component of the program has become one of the areas of
Functional Literacy Program  l         emphasis during facilitator and supervisor training programs.
3. Economics of the        Completed   Change in type of lanterns being procured.
alternative lighting systems
used in the LFSP by ADAR
4. Radio Research         [ Completed   Audience survey carried out within the catchmerit areas of the 2 stations.
Findings analyzed and a refresher course for the program producers is
about to take place.
5. 1st Impact assessment of   Completed   Revision in training content and methodology (RTT/DTT and facilitators
learning achieved by final             initial and refresher training).
year Literacy Learners
6. IstNationwide Leamer   1 Completed  [Revision of scoring system.
Assessment 1996.         j _____Identification of areas of emphasis during training programs.
7. Evaluation of book boxes, jpCompleted I Change all book boxes to aluminum. During Phase Two the book boxes
1996.                                  will be distributed one to a class.
8. Evaluation of post training 1 Completed 1 Revision of content of facilitators training.
competencies of Facilitators,          Preparation of handouts for trainers on content of the primer.
December 1993.             _    _      ___I
9. Baseline Study prior to the  Completed ir Baseline survey for radio usage recommended the use of the medium.
commencement of radio                j Based on the findings, 2 stations set up in the Volta and Northern Regions
10. Management, technical   Completed   Led to some changes in content of newspapers
production and content
problems of the rural
newspaper.               11          11_1
11  Management and         Completed   Decentralization of development inputs.
utilization of six development
||inputs supplied by NFED.            11
12. The role of incentives  Completed   Revision of incentive package for LFSP II for both Terminal mid-term
and rewards for facilitators in        periodic incentive packages.
the Functional Literacy
program.
J 13. Impact Study in one pilot  Completed   Recommendations were fed into the program implementation in the areas
and non pilot area - March            1 of training, logistics, supply and radio.
1996.                    1            !!                        -                                      11
14. Problems in            Completed
implementation of FLP -
November 1992.



23
15. Baseline survey       Completed  Economic and social study of target established, and impact to be measured
in 2000.
16. Beneficiary impact    Completed    eesign of the FLP for LFSP. II (identify strategies to address some of the
issues raised by first phase enhancing community ownership and
l                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~collaboration/sustainability .
Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                         Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate (USS)
L____ (US$M)_
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Basic Literacy Materials                      1.2     3.8       5.0      0.6      1.77      2.37
Support to Facilitators and Supervisors      0.4       3.6      4.0      0.1       1.1       1.2
Post Literacy Materials                      0.3       0.5      0.8      0.06     0.93      0.99
Radio                                        0.1       1.7      1.8      0.1       1.7       1.8
Research and Evaluation                      0.5       0.6      1.1      0.62     0.99       1.61
Institutional Strengthening                  3.8       5.2      9.0      6.35     12.18     18.53
Infrastructure                               0.9       0.6      1.5      0.1      0.87      0.97
Taxes and Duties                             3.0       0.0      3.0      0.31-              0.31
PPF Refinancing                              0.0       0.8      0.8               0.052     0.052
7. Contingencies: Physical                   0.6       1.5      2.1
Price              0.7       1.1      1.8
11.5     19.4     30.9     8.24     19.60      27.84
TOTAL
Table 7B: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
IDA                                              17.4                            16.97
The Kingdom of Norway                            2.9                              2.63
UNICEF                                           0.6                              0.05
Government                                       10.0                             8.19
TOTAL                               30.9                            27.84



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                       COVENANT                       C = In Comp.               COMMENTS                   ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                         CD = Compliance                                           REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                           after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet
_______________________                               ~~~~~~~~due
3.01 (a)               Government to open a commercial bank account to         C         The Government opened and is
meet expenditures under the project not financed by the          operating the project account with a
credit.                                                          commercial bank.
3.01 (b)               Quarterly deposits into this accounts.                  C         The project has experienced delays in
the implementation of some
components, due to delays in the
quarterly deposits to the project
account.
3.03                   Procurement governed by Schedule 3.                     C         The printing of the Revised Primer was
particularly late this FY. This delayed
the training of facilitators and the
launch of the 1997 Literacy Cycle.
Classes which were due to start by
early in October, had to be postponed
to November 1, 1997.
3.04                   Mid-term Review                                         C         Done April 1994
3.05 (a)               Government to present plans to implement reward         CThe incentive scheme for facilitators
system for facilitators and supervisors.                         needs to be improved. the acquisition
and distribution of incentives is
lagging. Facilitators are not completely
satisfied with the bicycles and sewing
machines that have been selected for
the incentives program.
3.05 (b)               Carry out rewards system.                              C         No comments.



25
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                        COVENANT                        C = In Comp.                COMMENTS                    ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                           CD = Compliance                                             REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                            after Delay
CF = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet
due
3.06 (a)                Government to present agreement with NBSSI.              C         NFED Agreement with NBSSI for the
implementation of the Income
Generation Activities (IGA) component
of the project is now being
implemented by NFED. NBSSI
presence is limited to Regional
Headquarters only, whereas NFED
reaches the districts and zones.
3.06 (b)               Implement NBSSI credit facility.                          C         NFED not satisfied with the
implementation IGA component by
NBSSI. NFED has structures in all
districts and zones, whereas NBSSI
only reaches Regional headquarters.
NBSSI was thus relying on NFED to
collect data for its evaluation. NFED
decided it would accomplish task by
itself. 
4.01 (a)                Government to maintain financial records.                C         Government maintained satisfactory
financial records of project activities.
4.01 (b) (i)            Government to have all project records and accounts      C         Audits of project accounts have been
audited.                                                           available on time.
4.01 (b) (ii)           present Audit to IDA                                     C         No audit reports overdue.



26
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                Planned                         Actual
_________________________   Staff Weeks    US$ ('000)    Staff Weeks    US$ ('000)
21.3           51.1
Preparation -- Appraisal                                                                     l
33.8           81.8
Appraisal -- Negotiations
22.7            50.9           121.0          214.7
Supervision*
39.0           52.1            22.0           23.7
Completion*                                                                                  l
TOTAL                               61.7            103.0          198.1          371.3
*Planned information is only available for FY96, FY97, and FY98, and comparison with actual is not meaningful.



27
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
________  |________ _____Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   Number    Days           Specialized      Implemen.       Develop.
project cycle        year        of         in        staff skills      Status        objectives
persons    Field      represented
1/91        3          22     TM, EdS,BS
Identification           6/91         9         21     EdS (4), PP, RS,
through to                                             ES
Effectiveness            10/91        2         21     PP, EdS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2/93         2         11    PP,EdS                   2              2
Supervision              6/93         2         12    PP,EdS                   2              2
12/93        2          9     PP,EdS                  3              2
1/94        2                 PP,EdS
8/94         2         11     SEdS, PP               U               U
12/94        2          9     SEdS, PP                3              2
4/95         4         9      SIS, 00, SOO,           S              S
EdS
10/95        5          7     A, SIS, EdS, PA,        U              S
PS
2/96         3         12     SIS, EdS, PS            S              S
10/96        4          5     PS, SOO, SIS,           S              S
EdS, PA
2/97         5         9      SIS, SOO, EdS,          S              S
PO, FA
6/97        3          5      SIS, SOO, PO
Completion               9/97         6         16    SIS, ES, S, SOO,         S              S
00, FA
EdS= Education Specialist
PP= Principal Planner
RS= Research Specialist
ES=Evaluation Specialist
BS= Book Specialist
S= Sociologist
SEdS= Senior Education Specialist
SOO= Senior Operations Officer
SIS= Senior Implementation Specialist
PS= Procurement Specialist
A= Accountant
PA= Projects Assistant
FA= Financial Analyst
00= Operations Officer
Africa Region
C:\VSCAN\LFSPICR.DOC
04/26/98 4:33 PM



28
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
IDA (CR.2349-GH) - Norwegian Grant (T521795)
Supervision and Completion Mission
September 22 - October 10, 1997
1.     An IDA mission3 supervised the Literacy and Functional Skills Project (LFSP) from
September 22 through October 10, 1997. The mission's main objectives were to: (a) review
progress in completing project activities programmed through December 31, 1997
(Credit/Grant closing date); (b) review progress in the implementation of the English Pilot;
(c) assess progress in the preparation of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) for LFSP
and provide technical assistance as needed; (d) review status of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), including GOG contributions, and discuss key sections; (e) review
the proposed 1998 Literacy Program; (f) discuss with NFED/PMU/MOE the framework for
the preparation of a second Literacy Project, (LFSP II); and (g) follow on the Education
Sector Finance work relevant to the LFSP. The mission's work was framed by project
documents, prepared by NFED/PMU, and field visits to literacy classes in the Ashanti
Region.
2.     The mission wishes to thank Dr. Christina Amoako-Nuama, Minister for Education;
Mr. Kwabena Kyere, Deputy Minister, MOE; Mr. John Darlymple-Hayfron, Chief Director,
MOE; Ms. A. Korsah, Director General, PMU; Mr. A. Akuoko, Acting Director, NFED;
and the staff of NFED and PMU for their customary support and cooperation.
Current Project Status
3.     The LFSP is broadly achieving its development objectives and continues to support
the GOG's long-term objective to combat adult illiteracy in Ghana. As the IDA credit and
the Norwegian Grant come to closure, it is noted that, overall, the LFSP has come a long way
in: (a) strengthening of the NFED' s institutional capacity; (b) monitoring and evaluating the
literacy program; (c) consolidating and improving the literacy program begun in 1990 to
allow learners to become functionally literate; (d) ensuring access of literates to reading
materials in local languages; and (e) expanding the coverage of FM broadcasting in support
of the functional literacy program.
4.     The implementation of the project, however, has slowed down this year -- mainly
because of weaknesses in planning and coordination of project activities, but also because of
3 The mission included Mmes/Messrs. I. Xenakis, Sr. Implementation Specialist (Mission Leader), M. Kilo,
Education Specialist, J. Elder, Sociologist (AFTH3); G. Hancock, Sr. Operations Officer, T. Apronti,
Projects Officer, and F. Yankey, Financial Analyst (AFGMH).



29
a lack of counterpart funds. Several project activities, including training, printing of primers,
and general logistics have been delayed. As a result, the opening of the new 1997-1999
literacy classes has been postponed by one month (now re-scheduled for November 1, 1997)
and several project activities programmed to be financed under the IDA credit and the
Norwegian Grant may not be completed by the closing date, December 31, 1997. These
activities have been reviewed and will continue to be monitored by NFED_ and PMU. A
more detailed report on project activities is included in Annex 1.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
5.     The Bank requires that the LFSP ICR -- a standard evaluation requirement for all
Bank supported operations-- be prepared by Bank staff and submitted to the Bank Board
within six months after the closing date of the LFSP credit. An evaluation of the LFSP by the
GOG/MOE should be a significant part of the ICR. The ICR will be drafted also taking into
account the findings of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) -- now under way (Annex
II). The mission will send a copy of the draft ICR to the MOEINFED/PMU prior to
finalizing it. The GOG/MOE contribution will be available by December 31, 1997. The
LFSP ICR will be a document critical for IDA's consideration of a second phase of IDA
assistance to the GOG Literacy Program.
6.     The preparation of an ICR is customarily discussed during the last supervision
mission before project closing (completion mission) -- that is, in the case of the LFSP, this
mission. Among the key sections of the report are: the assessment of LFSP success,
outcome, and sustainability; and lessons for future functional literacy operations or other
education sector projects. The NFED staff conducted the first-round review, from their
perspective, of project accomplishments and lessons learned. The mission appreciated
NFED's rich insights and constructive feedback. From the mission's point of view, the
messages coming from this exchange with NFED could be summarized in the following:
In the last five years (1992-97), the LFSP has delivered five batches of literacy
classes; recruited about 1,7i0,000 learners; experienced learner dropout rates of
15-20% ; enlisted about 40,000 facilitators; and implemented all the components
envisaged under the project. After the mid-term review, April 1994,
implementation improved gradually. Systems and processes were put in place
and tested, mainly in the last two years. In this respect, the extension of the IDA
credit and Norwegian Grant (twice, from 12/31/95 to 12/31/97) and DFID support
were critical. The LFSP has had the support of the GOG/MOE and has taken root
in the communities and groups of people, including women, targeted by the
program.
* Implementation lessons range over issues from institutional capacity (NFED/GES/PMU)
to day-to-day field activities; and point to the importance of several factors without
which the effectiveness of the Literacy Program would be compromised. These include:
Community involvement
Functional application of learning
Maintaining a literate environment
Quality of training (facilitators)



30
Classroom inputs and learning materials
Facilitator incentives
Quality of supervision
Research, monitoring and evaluation
Logistics and decentralization
Information/Communication about the literacy program/activities
Coordination with other literacy providers or demands
Institutional (NFED) efficiency
Program financing and sustainability
A preliminary synthesis of the lessons seems to suggest the need for improvements in the
above areas, as well as for the adoption by future literacy operations of an orientation and
focus ensuring that:
literacy skills are sustained and become more functional and responsive to learners'
needs;
the central role of the Functional Literacy Program in community development - and
vice-versa - is recognized and capitalized upon;
the Functional Literacy Program is a key part of the Ghana Education Sector.
Second phase of IDA assistance-- LFSP II
7.     GOG/MOE has requested the Bank to provide continuous support to various levels
of education, and this has been reflected in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Ghana. In response to this request, IDA is contemplating further support to the GOG
Literacy Program through the Second Literacy and Functional Skills Program (LFSP II).
8.     It is envisaged that the LFSP II would build upon successful experiences, cost-
effective activities, and pilots in the on-going LFSP. It would target specific groups,
particularly rural populations and female illiterates; continue to use local languages and
perhaps English, depending on the outcome of the English pilot currently underway; and
take into account the findings and recommendations of the ICR. The mission understands
that for the GOG to achieve its objective to increase adult literacy in the context of vision
2020, access to literacy promoting activities would have to be increased. The proposed
NFED targets for new learners are: 200,000 (1998-00), 300,000 (1999-01), 450,000 (00-02),
500,000 (01-03 and thereafter).
9.     To assist in the preparation of the LFSP II, the Bank has obtained a PHRD Grant
from the Government of Japan to provide technical assistance to the NFED/MOE. Formal
communication from the Bank to GOG on this issue is underway. The mission stands ready
to help with the processing and implementation of the PHRD Grant Agreement.
* The mission understands that the GOG/MOE proposal for the second phase of IDA
assistance to the Literacy Program, including the 1998 workplan, budget estimates, and
financing plan will be sent to IDA by November 30, 1997.
Key Issues



31
10.    Completion of LFSP activities. There are several outstanding items under
procurement (Annex III) that may not be delivered by the closing date of the IDA Credit
and the Norwegian Grant. Additionally, it is estimated that about US$ 240,000 of the Credit
and US$ 528,000 of the Grant have not been committed or programmed to be spent by the
closing date December 31, 1997.
* PMU/NFED will review the programming of activities and the procurement schedule,
including contract amounts, procurement methods and delivery dates, and advise IDA of
the steps that will be taken to ensure that outstanding items and services are delivered and
available funds utilized by closing.
11.    Furthermore, inactivity of the Special Account (SA) for a prolonged period of time
has prompted the Bank to advise that the SA will close unless it becomes active shortly. The
mission understands that an SA replenishment application, proposed for signature, has yet
to be forwarded to IDA. This causes undue constraint to the project implementation at this
critical stage.
- The mission urges MOE to submit the replenishment application to IDA soonest and
promptly collect documentation for subsequent Withdrawal Applications.
12.    Counterpart funds. The implementation of the project has been constrained by the
chronic lack of GOG matching funds. Currently, the balance in the project account is only
about cedis 56 million, an amount insufficient for the smooth closing of the project; total
GOG matching funds released to date amount to only 57% (c. 275 million) of the 1997
allocation (c. 481 million). The mission understands that requests for budget release.have
been followed in a timely fashion, and that the balance of the 1997 allocation (c.206 million)
was requested on October 5, 1997. The mission was assured that MOE will follow on this
promptly.
13.    Literacy Program financing. In view of the aforementioned financial constraints,
it is critical to ensure adequate budget allocation to support the 1998 Literacy Program. It is
noted that, in the last two years, the GOG financial support to the LFSP -- in matching funds
and recurrent expenditures -- has decreased in real terms (Annex IV).
* GOG financial support for the 1998 Literacy Program will be an indication of its
commitment to the continuation of the GOG Literacy Program and the proposed LFSP II
with IDA support.



32
APPENDIX B
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIVISION
DRAFT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER GH 2349-GH)
EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER



33
INTRODUCTION
1.    Initially, literacy activities in Ghana were supported by GTZ through the Institute of
Adult Education and the Department of Community Development. In 1986, as part of the
Educational Reform Programme (ERP), the Government of Ghana established the Non-
Formal Education Division (NFED) under the Ministry of Education, and charged it with the
task of coordinating all non-formal education activities in the country. At that time, non-
formal education was defined as "all organized and semi-organized educational activities
operating outside the regular framework of the formal education sub-sector and aimed at
servicing various learning needs of different sub-groups of the whole population". The 1984
census had estimated the number of illiterates in Ghana to be about 6,000,000, with a
cumulative effect as the population grew.
2.     With the introduction of PAMSCAD in 1988, Overseas Development Agency
(ODA, now DFID) provided assistance to NFED to the tune of 1.4 million sterling. UJNFPA,
UNICEF, WHO, Canadian Organization for Development Education (CODE), the British
Council, and IDA were among the initial collaborators. In 1989, the Functional Literacy
Programme was introduced on a pilot basis in the Winneba-Apam, and Tono-Vea areas of the
Central and Upper East Regions respectively. With the signing of the IDA Credit 2349-GH
in 1992, the Literacy and Functional Skills Project was almost solely funded by the World
Bank Credit, accompanied by a grant from the Kingdom of Norway, with the Government of
Ghana providing matching funds.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.     Project objectives were outlined as follows: a) assist in strengthening the
institutional capacity of NFED to manage effectively the entire literacy program; b) ensure
that all program aspects are subject to frequent evaluation and monitoring, and that research
and evaluation become key inputs in the development of any new initiatives; c) improve the
existing literacy program so that a large proportion of the 840,000 adults who participate
become fully literate; d) ensure that all new literates, whether from the school system or
from the literacy program, have access to a range of reading materials in Ghanaian languages;
and, e) help expand the coverage of the FM broadcasting system to support the functional
literacy program and to increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in the Ghanaian
languages.
PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES
4.     The objectives of the National Functional Literacy Programme were defined as
follows: (a) to enable participants to better meet their personal and social needs through
enhancing their abilities to deal competently with everyday life in a literate community; (b)
to equip learners with the knowledge, attitudes and skills that will enable them raise the
quality of life in their community; (c) to enable learners improve upon their occupational
skills through functional literacy; and (d) to broaden the reading interests of learners and
establish an attitude of reading for pleasure through the provision of follow-up reading
materials. The programme was particularly aimed at improving the quality of life of the
poorest Ghanaians, especially those living in rural areas, with an emphasis towards targeting
women.



34
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT AND PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES
5.     NFED has been successful in achieving the main objectives of the literacy
programme, having enrolled over 1.3 million learners since its inception, over 60% of whom
have been women, with most of the learners in rural communities. Monitoring visits and
learner assessments carried out by NFED revealed that the teaching of the 3Rs was quite
successful. NFED has been strengthened institutionally through management training, multi-
purpose, initial, refresher and specialized training provided for NFED staff, facilitators and
supervisors as required. NFED initially entered into agreements with a total of seven
organizations (GNAT, GBPA, GBC, NSS, NBSSI, New Times Corporation, and the Ministry
of Information), and made attempts to collaborate with NGOs and other providers of literacy
in the country. During the implementation of the project, NFED worked closely with
Nuffic/CESO to improve on its research, monitoring and evaluation capacity.
6.     The research unit carried out about 10 studies (lighting systems, development
inputs, classroom teaching and female participation, evaluation of bookboxes, etc.) to
improve the implementation of the programme. For example, the study on developments
inputs recommended the decentralization of procurement of some programme inputs.
Income Generating Activities continue to interest learners, but only 230 out of 48,000
literacy groups were supported with small credits under the project. The agreement with the
GBPA never resulted in the creation of a literate environment even after NFED doubled its
procurement of books for bookboxes, and funded six bookfairs around the country.
However, NFED transformed the rural newspaper into a community newspaper after
successfilly piloting the silk-screen technology, thus encouraging local communities to
increase their access to print materials. The BIA described the radio as vital for
communication in rural communities, but NFED still has to capitalize on this medium.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
7.     The National Functional Literacy Programme was quickly expanded to cover fifteen
(15) languages on a national scale in the early part of 1991, even before the pilot at Winneba
and Tono had taken root. In 1992, with the involvement of IDA, emphasis was placed
consolidating the existing levels of coverage rather than further expanding the programme,
with priority placed on the creation of a literate environment. Further, supervision missions
recommended the training of staff in research, monitoring and evaluation, and the
engagement of consultants to provide technical support to NFED. Focus was placed on the
core literacy activities through supervision and the production of materials for learners.
GNAT supervisors were replaced by the members of the Association of Committees for the
Defense of the Revolution (ACDR). However, not all supervisors have received them, nor
have sufficient numbers of bicycles been distributed to female facilitators.
8.     Training of facilitators and supervisors in the effective running of the Management
Information System (MIS) planned under the collaboration with Nuffic/CESO has yet to be
carnied out. Collaboration with other literacy providers such as GILLBT and Gonja Literacy
Project has been abrogated in view of the decentralization of the production of community



35
newspaper. The silk-screen pilot was made nationwide in 1997, bringing to an end the
collaboration with New Times Corporation. NFED collaborated with NSS to compile its
"Success Stories".
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
9.     The Bank has provided considerable guidance and support throughout the
implementation of the programme, and has been particularly responsive during the past few
years. Bank staff may not have participated directly in training NFED staff, but contributions
made during missions helped programme staff build on their shortcomings, making for
capacity building. The Baseline Survey was helped tremendously by this support; when
NFED staff raised the problem of data processing due to lack of software and staff time, the
Bank suggested that the activity be out-sourced. Similarly, comments on the quality of the
assessment report led the Unit to review the data collection tools, and to upgrade the current
data making the results more interesting. Mission evaluation and approval of activities in the
Operational Plan led to improvements in project implementation, and cut through the number
of requests for "no-objection". On a few occasions when the Bank's directives were not
clearly communicated, some decisions like the lighting system adversely affected
implementation.
RECOMMENDATIONS
10.    For improved implementation of the next phase of IDA funding, the following
recommendations should be considered: (a) Procurement procedures should include
decentralized local shopping for special items, especially some class inputs such as
chalkboard and easels; (b) For the creation of a literate environment, at least one bookbox
should be provided per class; (c) Greater emphasis should be placed on the functionality
aspect of the literacy programme which was not well implemented during the first phase of
the programme; (d) Categorization and allocation of credit funds should be made to reflect
NFED needs and its Operational Plan; (e) Greater support should be earmarked for IGA
groups; (f) All supervisors should receive a motorbike; (g) Budgetary allocation should be
made for the Field Operations Section to allow for follow-up visits to the field, to ensure that
prompt corrective measures take place to improve programme delivery at the grassroots
level; and (h) District Assemblies should be made signatories to all project funds allocated
to districts as a first stage checking system.



