Report No. PID6719
Project Name                     Ghana-Adult Literacy and Functional...
Skills Program II
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       GHPE974
Borrower                         Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency              Non-formal Education Division/Ministry of
Education
Ministry Branch Post Office
PO Box M45
Accra, Ghana
Date this PID prepared           July 22, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           November/December 1999
Projected Board Date             March/April 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Ghana is a country of 17 million people of whom two-thirds live in rural
areas. The country enjoys great cultural diversity with 17 major languages
spoken throughout the country. During the 1970s and early 1980s, Ghana
experienced a serious economic decline, which eroded the social and economic
gains that the country had made during the 1960s and early 1970s. Since the
mid-1980s, the Government has been committed to expanding and improving
education and, as a result, public expenditure on education has doubled during
the 10-year period from 1987 to 1997. As a proportion of GDP, annual
expenditure on education increased from 1.4% in 1983 to 4.0% in 1997.
2.      Although primary school enrollment rates have increased slightly since
1989, these rates are far from universal, especially for girls or children in
very poor households. In 1993, the overall primary school admission rate was
81% for girls and 90% for boys, while children from very poor households had
an admission rate of only 60%. Moreover, not all children who enter the school
system complete the primary school cycle. In 1993, the completion rate was
found to be 79% for girls and 88% for boys. More recent data show that in 1997
only 28% of poor children in rural areas complete at least primary school
compared to 64% of non-poor children. These differences carry over to urban
areas, where 44% of poor children complete primary school compared to 78% of
non-poor children. As a result, the adult illiteracy rate for the population
aged 15 year and over is estimated at 52% at the national level --38% for men
and 64% for women-- while the absolute number of adult illiterates is
estimated to be about 4 million (Ghana Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
1997).
3.      Adult literacy initiatives in Ghana date back to the 1950s when the
Government undertook a massive effort to increase adult literacy. However,
Government efforts peaked in the mid-1960s, and by the early 1980s government-
supported literacy activities were negligible. In 1991 the Ghanaian Government
re-launched a national literacy program to combat adult illiteracy in the



country. In 1992, the Government negotiated a credit with the World Bank/IDA
to support the expansion of the National Literacy and Functional Skills
Program (NLFSP). Thus, from 1992-97, the Bank supported the NLFSP through
credit 2349-GH, which closed in December 31 1997.
Project Objectives
4.      The proposed operation would support the second phase of the NLFSP of the
Government of Ghana. Its principal objective is to increase the number of
Ghanaian adults (15 years or older), particularly of women, who acquire
literacy and functional skills and cease to be illiterates. The Program is
expected to provide literacy and functional skills to about 1 million learners
over a period of 5 years.
5.      The performance of the Program will be monitored through several
objectively verifiable indicators of literacy skills, knowledge utilization,
and improved attitudes and practices in family health, parenting, community
participation, and agricultural activities. More specifically, the Program
will: (i) monitor the number of learners enrolling in the classes and the
percentage completing the literacy cycle successfully; (ii) administer a
fourth grade level equivalency test to monitor learner achievement at the end
of each literacy cycle; and (iii) compile baseline and periodic information to
measure the impact of development activities on learners' knowledge, attitudes
and practices.
Project Description
6.      The Program will support the following six components:
(i) Basic Literacy Skills - As in the previous phase, the Program will deliver
literacy classes to illiterate adults in 15 local languages. Classes are
designed to run in a two-year cycle for a total of about 300 instruction
(contact) hours over a period of 18 months.
(ii) Development Activities - These activities will be integrated into the
basic literacy classes. Their objective is to enhance life skills, civic
awareness, and occupational skills. Groups of learners will undertake
activities and small projects of their own choice related to the topics of the
primers and teaching in literacy classes (i.e. tree planting, improvements in
community's hygiene, agricultural projects etc.).
(iii) Post-Literacy Program Elements - The Program will pursue in earnest the
creation of a literate environment that is congenial for learners and program
graduates to practice and sustain their literacy skills.
(iv) Research, Monitoring and Evaluation - The Program will strengthen
research capacity to conduct learner impact assessments, formative evaluations
and longitudinal studies. A research plan, which will include evaluation and
dissemination mechanisms, will guide activities in the area of research and
innovations.
(v) Capacity Building and Program Management - The Program will support
improvements in the program management and implementation by the Non-formal
Education Division (NFED) and other partners through training of line managers
and staff, and through strengthening of relevant systems and processes. The
selected interventions will be coordinated with relevant initiatives currently
underway in the Ministry of education (MOE) and broader civil service reforms.
Activities under this component will be guided by a capacity building plan and
monitoring indicators.
(vi) Partnerships - In the second phase of the Program, NFED will strengthen
collaboration with NGOs, communities, District Assemblies and relevant
- 2 -



Government institutions and agencies to improve the delivery of literacy
services, especially in remote rural areas.
Project Financing
7.      The total Program cost is estimated at US$51 million with an IDA
contribution of US$30, representing about 609 of the total cost. The
Government of Ghana will contribute US$18 while communities and NGOs will
contribute US$3 million.
Project Implementation
8.      The proposed operation is planned for five years. NFED will take the lead
in the delivery and monitoring and evaluation of the Program in collaboration
with other providers of literacy skills providers in the country, and in
partnership with the communities. Program management and implementation
arrangements would involve decentralized systems and out-sourced services for
selected activities.
Project Sustainability
9.      The financial sustainability of the Program will be ensured through cost-
effective measures built into the program and adequate GOG financing of the
program, particularly of activities that ensure the quality of learning.
Acquired literacy and functional skills will be sustained through alternatives
aimed at building a literate environment.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
i) Monitoring and evaluation systems need to be established from the start of
the project, with baseline data and clear indicators to assess learning
achievement and other benefits. The timely collection and processing of
relevant and reliable data is critical for assessing the impact of the project
and for making necessary adjustments. Applied research and the application of
these research findings are critical for increasing the effectiveness of the
project.
ii) The Program must be responsive to learners' needs and perceptions, must
allow flexibility for adjustments to local conditions, and must be established
within a framework of agreed parameters and indicators of quality (i.e.
duration of instruction, class attendance, and learning outcomes).
iii) Offering rewards to facilitators for their good performance has been
effective; however, there have been logistical problems, which would need to
be rectified.
iv) It is important that appropriate criteria are used to select facilitators
and these criteria should be uniformly applied.
v) Efforts to establish a literate environment have been less than ideal.
Further reflections on the best way to sustain a literate environment would be
useful.
vi) For Ghana to eradicate illiteracy, the formal and non-formal education
sectors must join forces to ensure that their respective programs are cost-
effective and of high quality. Also, the implementing agency must help non-
government providers of literacy services by providing them with technical
assistance or teaching materials.
Poverty Category
10.     Adult illiteracy is highly correlated with location, income level and
gender. In rural areas, 749 of heads of households in the poorest quintile
-3 -



have never attended school, compared to 15t for heads of households in the
richest quintile. Rural women in the poorest quintile have an illiteracy rate
of 84t compared to 53t for those in the richest quintile.    Although illiteracy
is somewhat lower in urban areas, the association between illiteracy and
poverty remains. Sixty-two percent of urban heads of household in the poorest
quintile have never attended school compared to only 4.5w for households in
the richest quintile. Urban women in the poorest quintile have an illiteracy
rate of 70- compared to 249 for women in the richest quintile (Ghana Core
Welfare Indicators Questionnaire, 1997).
11.     The Program would benefit an estimated one million learners, 60- of whom
are likely to be women. Since illiteracy is highly associated with poverty, a
reduction in the adult illiteracy rate would contribute positively to reducing
the prevalence of poverty in the country. In addition, literacy acquisition
would contribute to improving learners' self-esteem, social status, and
employment opportunities.
Environmental Aspects
12.     The environmental category is C. That is, the Program does not carry the
risk of any adverse act to the environment.
Program Objective Categories
13.     The proposed Program seeks to improve the lives of the poor and
illiterate population in Ghana with a focus on women, and their community
environment.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



