Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICPHE COPY
Report No. 10164-GH   Type: (SAR)                       Report No. 10164-GH
LENO, J    / X35025 / J4125/ AFTED
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LITERACY AND FUNCTIONAL SKILLS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be osed by recipients only in the performance of
their offilcial duties. Its contents Fmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (DECEMBER 1  1991I
US$l    =   385 Cedis (0)
0100      0.26 US$
ACRONYMS
CDR         Committee for the Defence of the Revolution
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CODE        Canadian Organisation for Development Through Education
EdSAC I     Education Sector Adjustm.nent Credit (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC 1I    Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH)
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
GES         Ghana Education Service
GILLBT      Ghana Institute of Linguistics, Literacy, and Bible Translation
ICB         International Compet'tive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
JSS         Junior Secondary School
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MOE         Ministry of Education
NBSSI       National Bureau for Small-Scale Industries
NORAD       Norwegian Development Agency
NFED        Non-Formal Education Division, MOE
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
ODA         British Overseas Development Organization
PAMSCAD     Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PNDC        Provisional National Defense Council
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SSS         Senior Secondary School
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF      United Nations Childreno Emergency Fund
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WFP         World Food Program
WHO         World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR             January - December
SCHOOL YEAR             September - June (Basic and Tertiary)
January - December (Senior Secondary)
MAIN RAINY (AND FARMING} SEASONS (wheti it is difficult to run literacy
classes)
North                    July - September
Central & South          June and October
West                     May - July and October - November
In almost all cases, the earlier of the two rainy periods is most
significant.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC O^F GHANA
LITERACK AMD FUNCTIONAL SKILLS _Mi-ECT
Table of Contento
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM'IAY ......... ...                                            ............
I-  INTO_UDCTTON  ........................ ............                                               1
I I. THESETEETNGl . ........ - --., ... ^                                           ........ 2
IIt.  ..................................................................                                2
Ill. TI{E PLACE OF LITERACY IN 'THE- EDUCATION REORM PROGRAM....                                         3
A.     Background               .................................... .I .........                    3
B.     The Educational Reform  Program  ..................                       ........            3
C.  Literacy Proqrams in 3hana   .                               .                                   4
IV. THE EXISTING FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PRORM.                                    ...................   5
A.     Political  Commitment                 ...................          ..................         5
B.     Donor  Support  ........ ..............                     ......................            S
C.  Administrative Structure .............                                                           6
D.   Facilitator and Supervisor Training ................                                            6
E.   Incentives and Rewards ...................................                                      7
F.     Organization  of  a Functional  Literacy  Class  .............. .                             7
G.  Learning Materials . ...........................                                                 8
H.     Post  Literacy  Materials  ...............                 ..       .................         8
I.     The Use  of Radio  in Functional  Learnlng  ....                          ..............     9
J.  Impact of the Program .....................                                                      9
V. THE PROJET ..............9..................................                                       9
A.     Project  and  Program Objectives  ...........................                                 9
B.     Project  and  Program  Targets  ..............................                              10
C.   Project Elements .........................................   12
D.    Project  Cost  and  Financing Plan  ..........................                               19
E.   Lessons from Past Bank Experience .........................  20
VI.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ........                      ..............................            21
A.   Status of Project Preparation ............................  21
B.     Project  Implementation  Arrangements  .....                        .................       21
C.  Procurement ...............................................  22
D.     Disbursements  .            ...........................................                     25
E.     Auditing,  Monitoring  and Reporting  .....                         ..................      26
F.     Environmental  Aspects  .........                    ...........................            26
VII.  PROiECT  BENEFITS  AND RISKS  ........                      ...........................    26
A.    Benefits  . ................................................                                 26
B.     Risks  ....................................................                                 27
VIII.  AGREEMENTS  TO  BE  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                            ..............    27
1 This report is based on the findings of the appraisal team that visited Ghana in July 1991.
Mission members included Mr. N. Sennett (mission leader), Ms. J. Leno (education specialist), Mr. C.
Leesuwan (atdinistration and management specialist, consultant), Mr. P. Medcalf (print specielist,
consultent), Mr. M. At lard (radio specialist, consultant) from the World Bank; Ms. A. Wel te-Strand and Mr.
A. Tjeldvolt (research and evaluation specialists, consultants) representing the Norwegian government; and
Ms. S. Agarwal (WID specialist, consultant) from the Critish ODA. Mr. Nat Colletta was the lead advisor
for the operation, and Ms. Johanne Angers was responsible for project processing. Mrs. Janet de Merode
and Mr. Edwin R. Lim are the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the
operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Table of Contents, cont'd)
TABLES
Table       L Literacy Levels from the 1987/88 Ghana Living Standards Survey
Table 2     Projeated Number of Learners
Table 3     Facilitator Requirements
Table 4     Supervisor Requirement.
Table 5     Summary of Program Cost Estimates
Table 6     Procurement Methods by Expenditure Category
Table 7     Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
2.1   Literacy Rate by Locality, Sex, and Age Group
2.2   Distribution of 300,000 Learners by Language Groups in 1991
2.3   Tshe Setting
3.1   Literacy Rates Based on 1984 Census by Regions and Enrolment Rates in Basic
Education in 1990
4.1   Donor Support to the Functional Literacy Program
4.2   Basic Literacy Primer Lesson Topice
4.3   A Study of the Impact of the Radio Programme on Literacy Participants in the
Winneba and Tono-Vea Pilot Areas
5.1  Regional Targets for the National Literacy Program, 1992-94
5.2   Selection of Facilitators
5.3   Organizational and Administrative Structures for Non Formal Education -
central, Regional and District Levels Levela
5.4   NFED Staffing Plan, 1991-1996
5.5  NFED Consultant Needs
5.6   Literacy House and Warehouse Architectural Designs
5.7   In5titutionalisation of Monitoring, Evaluation and Research within the NFED
5.8   Project Proposal for the Establishment of Dangbe District as a Research
District for the Functional Literacy Program, 1991 to 1993
5.9   Training Schedule: July 1991 - July 1992
5.10 Collaboration on the Institutional Supervision for the National Functional
Literacy Programmel Agreements between GNAT/NFED-MOE and NSS/NFED-MOE
Respectively
5.11 Collaboration on Development Assistance for Income Generation Activities of
Functional Literacy Groups; Agreement between NBSSI/NFED-MOE and Indicative
Activity by Types and Costs
5.12 Proposal for the Publication of Newspapers by the Ministry of Information with
the Collaboration of NFED; Agreement between the MOI/NFED-MOE and Contract
Agreement between NPED-MOE and New Times Corporation
5.13 Participation of Publishers in the Publication of Post Literacy Materials;
Agreement between Ghana Book Publishers Association/NFED-MOE and Matrix of
Percentage Subsidies for Production of Reading Materials by Private Publishers
5.14 Agreement between Ghana Broadcasting CorporatLon/NFED-HOE
5.15 DetaLled Project Costs
5.16 NFED - Total Recurrent Budget Estimates, 1991
5.17 NFED - Total Recurrent Funds, 1991
6.1   EducatLonal Materials Proposed Procurement Timetable
6.2   Procurement Implementation Schedule
6.3   Estimated Schedule of DLebursements
6.4   Supervision Plan
6.5   Key Performance IndLeators
20CUMENTS IN THE PR_OJECT FILE
MAP: IBRD 23607



REPUBLIC_-OF GEMN
LXTERACY AN  MUCTIONAL. SKILLS PRJCT
CREDIT: AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Ghana
Excutino A9__cny: Non-Formal Education Division, Ministry of Education
Credit Amount:    SDR 12.4 million (US$17.4 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard with 40 years maturity
Proe eat
Des.ci_tio_:      The project will, over the period PY1993-95, support and
consolidate the Government's program of functional
literacy. The project's objectives are: (i) to assist
in strengthening the institutional capacity of NFED to
manage effectively the entire literacy program; (ii) to
ensure that all program aspects are subject to frequent
evaluation and monitoring, and that research and
evaluation become key inputs in the development of any
new initiatives; (iii) to improve the existing literacy
program so that a large proportion of the 840,000 adults
who will be allowed to participate become fully literate;
(iv) to ensure that all new literates, whether from the
school ssytem or from the literacy program have access to
a range of reading materials in Ghanaian languages; and
(v) to help expand the coverage of the FM broadcasting
system to support the functional literacy program and to
increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in the
Ghanaian languages. The project's main objective is to
improve the quality of life of the poorest Ghanaians,
especially those in the rural areas. Credit funds will
be used to finance the production of printed materials;
procurement of radios, bicycles, And sewing machines as
incentives for facilitators and supervisors; procurement
of development inputs, vehicles an.1 office furniture and
equipment; staff training and technlcal assistance; and
the construction of office and storage facilities.
Benefits and Risks:
Literacy in Ghana is not seen as an end in itself but as
a means to economic, social, and political development,
and as a first step towards the introduction of a more
systematic approach to problem solving. The project is
expected to have a positive impact on agricultural
productivity, environmental protection, the status of
women, a reduction in the birth rate, and an improvement
in national indicators of physical health.
The main risks involve the complexity of running a
program in 15 languages; the difficulty of sustaining
political support; logistics and administrative
bottlenecks involved in carrying out such widely-



- i1 _
dispersed program activities; and ahortages of
technically competent and committed manpower. These
riako have been reduced by maintaining the program at its
current size for three years until all systems and
materials can be tested and established; by building up
staffing and infrastructures while there Is a high level
of political support; by developing appropriate incentive
packagie; and by seeking skills from outaide the country
where absolutely essential.
BotiatedProiect Costs
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ millions) _
Basic Literacy Materials               1.2         3.8          5.0
Support to Facilitators
and Supervisors                    0.4          3.6          4.0
Post Literacy Materials                0.3         0.5          0.8
Radio                                  0.1         1.7          1.8
Research and Evaluation                0.5         0.6          1.1
Institutional Strengthening            3.8         5.2          9.0
Infrastructure                         0.9         0.6          1.5
Taxes and Duties                       3.0         0.0          3.0
PPF Refinancing                        0.0         0.8          0.8
Total Base Costs                10.2         16.8         27.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.6         1.5          2.1
Price Contingencies                    0.7         1.1          1,8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             11.5         19.4         30.9
Financina Plan fuss millions)
IDA                             2.0         15.4        17.4
Norway                          1.3          1.6          2.9
Unicef                          0.1          0.5          0.6
Government of Ghana             8.1          1.9         10.0
Total                    11.5         19.4        30.9
Estimated Credit Disbursements (USS millions):
XDA FiscalYe_ars                FY93         FY94        FY95      FY96
Annual                     4.9          5.7         5.8       1.0
Cumulative                 4.9         10.6        16.4      17.4
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable



REPUBLI C _F GiHM
LITERACYLAND FNC-TIOA  SKIL&S -PRJCT
I. INR ODUCTION
1.1         Since the Introduction of the Economic Recovery Program (ER') in
1983, the people of Ghana, under the leadership of the Provisional National
Defence Council (PNDC), have been engaged in a far reaching program of
economic recovery and structural adjustment. Unlike adjustment programs in
some other countries the Ghanaian program has always placed very great
emphasis on the social sectors, and has succeeded in reversing the precipitous
fall in the provision of education and health services that preceded its
introduction. As the adjustment program has deepened, Government has placed
increasing emphasis on the human dimensions, by introducing a major
educational reform in 1987, launching the Program of Actions to Mitigate the
Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD) in 1988, and by choosing as its theme for
the 1991 Consultative Group meeting in Paris "Enhancing the Human Impact of
the Adjustment Program".
1.2         Government has increased dramatically its budgetary allocation to
the education sector from a level of about 1.4% of GDP at the beginning of the
ERP to 3.4% of GDP in 1990. In addition, donors have provided considerable
support to the sector. The World Bank has played a leading role by approving a
Health and Education Rehabilitation Credit in 1985, the first Education Sector
Adjustment Credit (EdSAC I) in 1986, the Second Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (EdSAC II) in 1990 and the Community Secondary School Construction
Project in 1991. As a complement to these operations, starting in 1990 USAID
is providing US$35 million over five years to support quality improvements in
primary education.
1.3         Progress under the IDA credits has been gocd.  For example, all
tranches of EdSAC x were rel.eased with only a few months delay, and the second
tranche review of EdSAC II has already been released on time. The Health and
Education Rehabilitation project and EdSAC I closed on December 31, 1991 and
the Community Secondary School Construction project has received wide
publicity and is disbursing rapidly. Most importantly, enrollments have taken
off at all levels of education after a long period of stagnation.
1.4         Despite the impressive progress being made in formal education,
two-thirds of the population remain functionally illiterate. Of those who
have been to school, 40% have lapsed into illiteracy due to a lack of
appropriate reading materials, and the majority of the population do not own
radio sets. Thus there is little way for Government to pass information on to
the mass of the population. Given the fact that there are over 90 primary
ethnic groups and 17 major language groups, it is even difficult for
Government staff to become aware of what is happening in different corners of
the country. The literacy program (with FM radio support) has been designed
in order to try to break this communications barrier, and to give people the
necessary conaciousness, attitudes, skills and knowledge so that their
creativity can be applied to further national development. With this end in
view, the Chairman of the PNDC launched a mass literacy program in January
1991.
1.5         The public's response has been extraordinary.  Over 10,000
volunteers offered their services as unpaid facilitators and have opened
classes for 290,000 learnars, 31% of whom come from the educationally-deprived
northern region, and 63% of whom are females. Classes are currently running
in 15 different languages, and planning is underway to provide a variety of



-2
reading materials to the neo-literates ao that their newly-acquired skills
will not be, lost.  Government is now seeking external financial assiotance to
ensure that the initial enithuaiasm for learning is not destroyed through
underfunded classes, poor materials, undertrained facilitators and
supervisors, inappropriate teaching methods and a lack of post-literacy
reading matter. This ia why timely donor support is crucial.
2.1         Low literacy levels are the result of past failures in formal
education, combined with the low priority given to literacy programs, and a
lack of a literate environment. Literacy is not an end in itself, but a tool
that can and often does result in significant improvements in the social,
economic, and cultural environment. It is therefore important to look at any
literacy program in the context of the existing socio-economic situation.
2.2         It would have been expected, given the attention paid to both
basic education and adult literacy programs just before and after
independence, that literacy levels would be quite high. Unfortunately, the
early gaint. were lost in the 1970a due to the economic decline that dried up
resources that had been available for the production of a wide range of
reading materials in many Ghanaian languages. In addition, the few scarce
resources available were spent on elitiat secondary and tertiary schooling,
which led to a serious devaluation of the quality of primary education, to
such an extent that many of the children enrolled learned very little. Thus
by 1987/88, despite the fact that 55% of Ghanaians had been to school, full
literacy (the ability to write a simple letter) was attained by only 32.5% of
the population over nine years of age. Table 1 shows literacy levels drawn
from the 1987/88 Ghana Living Standardo Survey.
M~~~~Mb&
Literacy. and N_Mmeggaov-Rates by Locality and Sex
(percent)
ACCRA          OTHER URBAN           RURAL             COUNTRY
M     F     T     M     P     T     M      F    T      M     F     T
Can
Read  78.5  61.8  70.1  52.4  31.4  41.3  37.7  18.3  27.7  45.5  25.9  35.4
Can
Write  71.7  61.8  63.3  49.0  28.8  38.3  35.0  16.6  25.5   42.2  42.3  32.5
Can do
Math  85.3  71.3  78.1  66.8  44.7  55.2  52.4  29.8  40.8  59.4  37.7  48.1
Note: (1) M = Male; F = Female; T = Total
(2) Table is based on respondents nine years of age or older
2.3         Table 1 shows that rural literacy rates are less than half
those found in Accra, and that rates of rural numeracy (which is critical,
for example, to the application of modern farming techniques and to the
protection of the poor from cheating in the marketplace) are extremely low.



w 3 -
Other analysis of the same data show that in no age group does literacy
exceed 50%, despite enrollment rates in primary schools greater than 60%
over the past fifteen years. Applying the age-specific illiteracy rateu
from the OLSS to ourrent estimates of the population by age, it seems that
there are approximately 5.9 million adult illiterates in Ghana. Literacy
rates by locality, sex, and age group are shown in  BD21  and the 1991
distribution of 300,000 learner3 by language group is shown in  nx22
2.4         Evidence from correlation studiea that relate literacy levels
to a number of economic indicators in a wide range of countries suggests
that it will be difficult for Ghana to make any significant improvement in
these indicators (especially in its per capita income growth) without a
significant improvement in the current low literacy levels. A dramatic
reduction of illiteracy is thus essential If the Governmentle planned
accelerated growth strategy is to become a reality.
2.5         Despite several years  effort to implement the Government's
economic recovery program -- as well as more than three decades of
educational development and longstanding Government concern with social
juotice -- economic and social conditions remain difficult. Poverty is
rampant, malnutrition widespread, population growth is accelerating, infant
mortality ratas remain at a high level, poor hygiene and sanitatLon
continue to cause endemic diseases, negative social customs hamper
development action, deforestation and environmental degradation threaten
the future of food production, and women remain exploited. Though there is
only limited evidence on the impact of literacy as opposed to schooling,
this evidence does suggest that a literate farmer is significantly more
productive than an illiterate, and is also more likely to send his children
to school. Government, however, has more ambitious goals for its literacy
program and expects that it will help mitigate all the problems mentioned
above. These problems cre summarized in rnnezJ..a.
II. TEPAEO   IEAYTHE          HE EDUCTION REFgRM PROGA
A.  Backcrougn
3.1         Until the mid-1970s Ghana had a relatively effective, but not
terribly relevant, education system. Along with the economic decline of
the 1970s, however, the quality of the system deteriorated and enrollment
rates stagnated or fell. The precipitous drop in the availability of
public resources for education (from 6.4% of GDP in 1976 to 1.4% in 1983)
meant that Government was no longer able to construct, complete, and
maintain educational facilities. At the same time, foreign exchange dried
up, preventing the purchase of textbooks and other essential instructional
materials. The economic decline also led to a mass exodus of trained
teachers, especially the more highly qualified. The sector was weakened
further by low motivation and morale, and by widespread misappropriation of
funds. The system sank to such a low level that a significant proportion
of primary school leavers were not even literate.
3.2         In addition, the structure of the educational system provided
foa an inordinately long pre-university cycle (up to 17 years), combined
with short school days and short academic years. These problems were
compounded by a curriculum that was highly academic, emphasizing zote
recall rather than mastery of practical skills. Finally, government's
recurrent cost burden was exacerbated by high subsidies to cover the costs
of feeding and lodging secondary and tertiary students, and overetaffing,
especially of non-teaching staff and untrained teachers.
1. The EdMcaonal Refor  ProgAM
3.3         In response to these problems the Government in 1986 initiated
a sector-wide, multi-year program of educatLonal reform as a central part



-4-
of its plan for economic recovery and sustained growth. It had four
principal objeotivea. First, it sought to reduce the length of pre-
university education. Thia structural change will, in and of itself, hai'e
a favorable inmpact on the underlying goals of access cand equity, in that
parents and Government will have fewer years of scaooling to finance per
child. Cost savings from thls and other measurea are being used to expand
enrollments faster than increases in the school age population.  Second, it
aimed to improve pedagogic efficiency and raise the quality of educational
outcomes.  Third, it included measures to contain and partially recover
Costs, thereby freeing up public resources to improve educational quality
and expand enrollments, eapecially to underserved areas and girls.
Finally, it sought to enhance sector management and budgeting procedures.
C. Literacv Prora  in Ghana
3.4         In 1986, at the same time that reform of the formal education
system was begun, Government also announced its commitment to significantly
reduce illiteracy, especially among women and northerners, who have the
lowest literacy rates.  A broad policy document, "Mass Literacy and Social
change Program (MASSLIP)", was prepared by the Non-Formal Education
Division (NEED) within the Ministry of Education and the political
appointment of a high-level coordinator of this division was made to ensure
that all organizations involved in literacy would work together to develop
and implement a program to eradicate illiteracy.
3.5         Adult literacy initiatives have a long history in Ghana.
During the 19506 Government undertook a massive effort in 11 languages to
raise the adult literacy rate, then estimated to be about 9%.  The campaign
was executed by the Mass Education Section of the Department of Social
Welfare (today the Department of Community Development, DCD), and reading
materials for new literates were prepared by the Vernacular Literature
Bureau (today the Bureau of Ghana Languages). In addition, large numbers
of religious, semi-governmental and non-governmental organizations were
involved in running literacy programs.
3.6         Basic literacy instruction was carried out in a very
traditional way, building up literacy skills from the alphabet, to
syllables and then to words, through drills and rote repetition. There was
no attempt to make basic literacy teaching functional, this being
restricted to a post literacy level. Adult learners purchased at a
subsidized price a literacy kit consisting of a primer, an exercise book
and a pencil. Considerable attention was also devoted to the publishing of
community newspapers in the Ghanaian languages. The structure and
organization of this early effort has had a considerable impact on current
initiatives, as most of the skilled Ghanaian literacy workers had their
original exposure to adult education in this earlier program. Some more
modern approaches such as the Frierean conscientization method, which the
Government claims to espouse, have thus been difficult to operationalize.
3.7         Despite the strides made during the early years of the program,
by the mid-1960s progress began to slow considerably. Political upheaval
and economic decline led to severe reductions in funding and shortages of
reading materials, and volunteer literacy instructors were no longer
willing to offer their services free of charge. Lack of coordination among
the various governmental and non-governmental agencies involved in literacy
activities exacerbated the situation. The result was a dramatic fall in
the number of new literates produced annually, from an average of over
22,000 during the 1950. to just over 2,000 twenty years later. With the
deepening economic deterioration of the early 1980s, government-supported
adult literacy activities came to a virtual halt. Literacy rates by region
In 1984, along with enrollment rates in basic education in 1990, are shown
in annex 3.1.



-5-
3.8         Religious NGOot however, continued to expand their activities,
pa;rticularly aimed at enabling adults to read the Bible In their maternal
languages. Perhaps the moat active group has been the Ghana Inotitute of
Linguistlos, Literacy and aible Translation (GILLBT)i which has not only
developed an orthography for 21 minority languages (mainly in northern
Ghana), but has also made more than 45,000 adults functionally literate in
23 languages oince 1986, and hao published several hundred small bookleto
in Ghanaian languages, many on functional topics. GILLBTs work has proved
extremely useful in the development of Government'e own literacy program.
It is eatimated that by 1989, Government and NGO literacy programs were
together produclng about 36,000 new literates.
3.9         Today, evan with the successes of the education reform program,
only about 80% of Ghanaian children are entering school and many of those
who enter drop out after only a few years and never attaln sustainable
levels of literacy.  In addLtion, owing to the non-literate environment
that exists in villages throughout the country, many new literates from the
school system or adult programs lapse back into illiteracy. It is
currently estimated that Lf lliteracy is to be largely elLminated withln a
decade or ao, over 5.3 milllon Ghanaians must successfully complete
llteracy programs, and these same adults will have to hava continuous
access to interesting and useful reading materials to maintain their
literacy.
IV. THE EXISTING EUNCTIONA LITERACY PROGRAM
A. Political Comitment
4.1         With the coming to power of the PNDC Government, there has been
a renewed interest in undertaking a mass effort to eradlcate lliteracy in
the shortest possible time. In his 1990 New Year's message to the nation,
the PNDC Chalrman announced th&t Government would mount an effort to reduce
the number of illLterates in Ghana by ten percent annually from 1990, and
on January 22, 1991 the Chalrman formally launched the government's
functional literacy program. over the past year polLtLcal support has also
been exhLbited through frequent speeches by PNDC memberr and other
political leaders, by daily newspaper coverage of the launching of district
llteracy activLties and the opening of llteracy classes across the country,
and by the participatLon of regLonal and district officials at varLous
literacy events natiorwide. So effective has been the polLtical marketing
strategy that demand to open llteracy classes has far outstripped
Government's capacity to provide materials and trained facilitators,
B. Donor Sgoport
4.2         Up until a few years ago the only donor support for literacy
work was that provLded through a German foundatLon which supported both the
Institute of Adult Education (IAB) and the DCD. However, with the
launching of PAMSCAD in 1988, a signifLcant amount of foreign aesistance
has become available. The most important of this has been from the British
overseas Development Agency (ODA) which provided grant assistance of U.K.
Pounds 1.4 million for developing a pilot program. Addltional support has
been provided by Switzerland, UNPPA, UNICEF and WHO. Other donors have
also been involved to a smaller extent, including the CanadLan Organizatlon
for Development Educatior. (CODE), the British Council, and IDA (US$150,000
of EdSAC funds have been allocated). The dLfficulty in having so many
donors involved during the preparatory phase of the operation is that most
have thelr own agendas, and thus NFED has been pulled in several directions
at the same time.  annex 4   provides information about support for the
lLteracy program from other donors.



4.3         NPED is responsible 'or coordinating the efforto of the various
parties involved in literacy. Theoe include a wide range of governmental
arid non-governmental organizations, church and trade union groupa,
Committees for the Defence of the Revolution (CDRe), 31st December Womenle
Movement, and individuale interested in making a contribution to their
communities. Beyond its coordinating function, NFED has responsibility for
the development, production and distribution of instructional materialsg
eatablishing a process to aelect facilitators and supervisors and provide
training for thom; and monitoring and evaluating program implementation.
4.4         During the first years of the new literacy program NFED relied
to a great extent on the cooperation of other organizations, task forces,
part-time staff, and other ad hoc arrangements. It wao soon realized that
such a system by itself could not ensure effective management of a large
nationwide program. Thue, over the past year or so, an institutional
structure has begun to be formed drawing most of its personnel from other
parts of the educational system. At the central level, 68 staff have been
organized into three major divisiones: materials development, field
operations (including research and evaluation) and administration. At the
regional and district levels, 750 professional and technical staff L.ave
been seconded from the Ghana Education Service and a much smaller number
are in the process of being seconded from DCD and other organizations. The
full-time staff in the districts and regions are involved in organizing
training and supervision; in the distribution of materials; and in
monitoring, evaluation, and ro-orting.  District and regional staff are
supplemented by part-time members of regional and district training teams,
who are involved in all lerge-scale training programs.
D.  _acilitator and SuDervisor Trainino
4.5         Training.  A national training team composed of members from
NFED, IAE, DCD, and the Bureau of Ghana Languages (BGL) designed the
initial training course and materials. Given the large numbers of
facilitators and stupervisore to be trained, NFED has relied on a cascade
training approach, beginning with the national team training the regional
literacy committee members, and having these regional teams in turn take
responsibility for trair-ng their district training teams who in turn train
f.'-Ilitators. Supervisors are trained directly by the regional teams.
4.6         During the initial phase of the program NFED produced training
materials and offered one-week training courses to most supervisors and to
1,210 facilitators in the pilot areas as well as a number in the non-pilot
areas. The remainder of the 10,880 facilitators recruited in 1990/91
received either no training at all, or a one- or two-day course. The
training covered a range of topics, including the philosophy of a
functional approach to teaching literacy and techniques for working with
adult learners, but it focused particularly on the teaching of basic
literacy and writing.  Despite the program's emphasis on funatio al
learn_n_, relatively little attention was devoted to training facilitators
how to lead discussions on development issues, to organize the class
schedules, and to make effective claosroom use of written materials,
Training was done largely through lectures, allowing only a short amount of
time for the trainees to practice the new techniques. As a result of a
national evaluation held in early 2991, there is now a consensus that a
one-week session does not allow sufficient time to impart the wide range of
information and skills that all facilitators and supervisors need to
master. The evaluation also concluded that the training approach must be
made more action-oriented and participatory. As a result, the course has
been redesigned accordingly.



4.7       =      ing gg a and handbooks.  During the first part of 1990
NFED produced a range of basic training materiale, plus one handbook for
facilitators and another for supervisors. The quality of these materials
was variable, and the basic training materials and handbook5 in particular
did not provide sufficient detail to be of use to their Intended audiences.
RecognLzing that these materials were often too brief and general in their
approach, WNED has now completely revised and improved them, and has also
developed two further manuals to help supervisors  and facilitators in their
work.
E.  Ingentive  and Rewards
4.8         Given the fact that the literacy program is based on unpaid
volunteer facilitators and supervisors, NFED has seen a need to provide
them with some form of incentives to elicit their participation and
maintain their enthuoiaum and commitment over a number of years. Thus far
radios have been made available to many of the facilitators and supervisors
in the pilot areas. With the expansion of the program, a more
comprehensive system of incentives and rewards has been structured to
encourage both a high level of commitment to the program as well as a high
standard of performance.
F. Oranization o    Functional-Literacy Class
4.9         Functional literacy classes are organized in a number of
different ways. For many years small numbers of literacy groups were
established by various churches, the Institute for Adult Education, and
NGOs, and since the early 1980s by CDRs and the 31st December Women's
Movemont. in the past two years, however, with the advent of the
Government's functional literacy program, groups have been formed by
individuals who want to teach getting together with community members who
want to learn.
4.10        Literacy classes are held in varioua sites ranging from primary
or JSS classrooms to churchee or community centers; in some parts of the
country, classes are held out ln the open, with a mud wall used as a
blackboard, and with learners eitting on rocks or logs. Classes are
usually held for about two hours a day (generally in the late afternoon or
evening), from three to five days a week. Until recently the program
operated on an A§=h2g basis in several respects. First, there was no clear
start or end date, so that classes opened at any time of the year and,
although they are meant to last for eight months they often lasted longer
than 12 months. Similarly, class eize was not limited to a manageable
number of learners (say 25), which often led to serious over-enrollment of
up to 50 or more.
4.11        There are 28 lessons in the firat cycle of the basic literacy
course, each expected to take about eight hours; Annex 4.2 shows the main
topics covered in these lessons. The lessons follow a number of prescribed
steps to ensure that the material is covered and that the learrners do not
become bored by repetitious teaching methods. Each lesson begina with
discussion of a drawlng, or code, relating to the lives of the learners
(e.g., a bush fire or a child oick with diarrhoea). The facilitatcr
encourages the learners to describe what they see in the picture and to
discus the ismues it presents. Through the discussion, learners are
encouraged to look at old problems in new ways, to have a chance to ohare
their views with each other, to raise questions, and consider practical
waye to deal with the problem in queetion. For example, the illustration
of childhood diarrhoea might elicit useful discussion about how parents can
obtain and administer oral rehydration salts (ORS). The discussion could
also encourage learners to think about the relationship between certain



--
hygiene practices and diaease, and to take action within their community to
reduce tne incidence of particular illnesses.
4.12        The discussion is also intended to lead learners to the
leuson's "key word" (e.g., diarrhoea), which is then used to teach its
component syllables.  Analysis of syllables is claimed to serve as the
foundation for word building and, ultimately, for construction of simple
sentences. Unfortunately, facilitators initially devoted far too much time
to syllable drills, as this is the most coamonly-ueed teaching method in
the early grades of primary school. However, not only is the revieed
facilitator training Drogram addressing this problem, but also syllable
drills have been removed from the primers in all except the firat five
lossons, and supervisors have been instructed to discourage lessons based
on hours of repetitious drilling. Another central feature of the
functional literacy approach is the teaching of basic numeracy. During the
initial phase insufficient attention was given to teaching numeracy skills,
but this weakness is being addressed in the expanded program. There is
active and creative use of literacy songs which are interspersed between
drills on syllables, practice at writing, and arithmetic exercises, as a
way to maintain learners' intereBt and enthusiasm. In addition, the
literacy group is expected to set aside a special time once every two weeks
or so to undertake some community activity related to the functional
discussions (e.g. to dig latrines, clear away garbage, or plant trees or
vegetables). Although experience with such activities was limited in the
early stages of the program, more effort is being made to encourage them in
the expanded program.
G. Learning Materials
4.13        As a result of the detailed evaluation exercise completed
during the first few months of 1991, it was found necessary to completely
redesign the literacy materials. Over the latter part of 1991, NFED has
developed, and is (early 1992) in the process of testing primers and two
basic readers in each of the 15 languages. Thus far learners have had
access to a primer in their own language, an exercise book, and a pencil,
but not to the two readers. At the same time, classes have been provided
with chalk and blackboarde. In the pilot areas radio aets and preosure
lamps have also been provided, while in other areas villagers had to
provide their own lighting, which led to serious problems in nearly all
cases.
H. Post Literav Materials
4.14        Research from many countries shows that new literates lapse
rapidly back into illiteracy if they live in a non-literate environment.
Thus new literates must have access to reading materials in the language of
their literacy in order to avoid losing their newly-acquired reading
skills. NFED has collected copies of available materials publiohed in
Ghanaian languages over the past 30 years and selected the most appropriate
of these for reprinting. The majority of these materials have been
developed by GILLBT, other religious groups, and by the Bureau of Ghana
Languages an a part of the earlier literacy effort. In addition, NFED has
developed two multi-topic readers in each of the 15 languages as follow-up
materials to be used at the end of the basic literacy class, the IAE
(supported by CODE) is rroducing two rural newspapers, one in Ewe (for
Eastern Ghana) and one in Dagbani (for Northern Ghana), and is planning to
eupport several more. In addition, there are Bibles and hymn books in all
the 15 lanquages.



-9-
I  1hp_1 L9egf_2| Lon39 Functiona Leaning
4.15        Government believes that radio should play an important role in
the running of the literacy progran and in promoting its agricultural,
health, population, and community development initiatives. The ODA pilot
project devoted considerable resources to reequipping studios, providing
some transmission equipment, and training personnel. However, up to now
radio has mainly been used to "sell" the literacy program. This has been
done successfully as demonstrated by the fact that the Coordinator for Non-
Formal Education won the National Marx1eting Award for 1990. Jingles,
announcements, stories, and features on literacy have been broadcast
widely. In addition, a soap opera with a literacy theme is being developed
in four languages. Over the course of the noext several years Government
intends to use radio to reinforce the messages being conveyed through the
literacy program, spreading development consciousness as a prerequisite to
changing behavior patterns. Research will be carried out to identify what
imapact if any the radio programs are having.  nMnex 4.3 presents details of
a study looking at this question which was nearing completing tn early
1992.
J.   matothPoaa
4,16        With the assistance of the UNDP/EdSAC-supported educational
planning project in the Ministry of Education, a management information
system has been developed that will ensure regular reporting on the
coverage and impact of the program. In addition, ODA is supporting one
full-time British researcher to study what is happening to the program in
one of the pilot areas. Neither of theoe has yet produced any final
results, but preliminary findings, including those of the early-1991
evaluation exercise, suggest that of the participants who enrol, about one-
third are becoming functionally literate within the preacribed eight
months, another one-third are becoming literate within a considerably
longer period averaging around .5 months, while the remaining one-third
either learn very little or drop out. In addition, there is so far no
indication that the literacy program has had any impact on the development
activities of participants, and there seems to be an increasing tendency
for facilitators to drop out themselves (but this is still at a low and
manageable rate). It should be noted that these findings are based on what
happened in the first year's implenmentation of the large-scale program,
with poor primers, inappropriate teaching methods, untrained and unrewarded
facilitators, and an ad_hoq supervision system.
V. THE PROJECT
A.  Prgo-fct and P )          5
5.1         The project, financed by the IDA credit, is designed to cover
almost 60% of the total investment and eperating costs of the program over
the period of July 1992 to June 1995. The overall long-term objective of
the Government's program is to dramatically reduce illiteracy in Ghana
within a decade or so. The project includes a mid-term review in December
1993 to determine whether any mid-course adjustments are required, as well
as to decide whethler a second phase of IDA assistance is needed. The
overall objectives of the project are:
(a)  to assist in the strengthening of the institutional capacity of
NFED to manage effectively the entire literacy program;
(b)   to ensure that all aspects of the literacy program are subject to
frequent evaluation and monitoring, and that research and



- 10 -
evaluation become key inputs in the development of any new
initiatives;
(C)   to consolidate and improve the existing literacy program so that a
large proportion of the 840,000 adults who will be allowed to
participate become functionally literate;
(d)   to eneure that all new literates, whether from the school system
or from the literacy program have access to a range of reading
materials in Ghanaian languages; and
(e)   to help expand the coverage of the FM broadcasting system to
support the functional literacy program and to increase the
frequency of educational broadcasting in the Ghanaian languages.
5.2         The program's main objective is to improve the quality of life
of the poorest Ghanaians, especially those in the rural areas. Through
provision of basic literacy and numeracy skills, and new knowledge and
attitudes, the program has the potential to have a positive impact in all
areas of development (family planning, health, agricultural productivity,
environmental protection, and the discouragement of negative and dangerous
social customs). The program is also intended to regenerate popular
involvement in community development activities.
B. Project and Proaram Tarasts
5.3         Learners. Table 2 shows the actual and projected number of
learners in the functional literacy program over the period 1991-1994.
Targets are set for both the majority of learners, who will participate in
Basic Literacy classes, and a smaller number who will go on to experimental
Post Literacy classes (which will eventually become the firat step in a
second-chance educational system). Over the period nearly 840,000
Ghanaians are expected to enroll in the Basic Literacy course.  Annex_5.1
shows the learner targets by region from 1992-1994.
5.4         At present, NFED's top priorities will be to offer the revised
training course to all existing facilitators and supervisors (many of whom
had never received any training, the rest of whom had received training
that was insufficient in both scope and duration), and to test materials,
training courses, supervision systems, and organizational structures.
[Prior to effectiveness, the first three-week facilitator training program
will have started and be satisfactory to IDA.) In order to take the time
nece3sary to accomplish these objectives, Government has decided not to
expand the number of classes until the fall of 1994 at the earliest, and to
severely restrict intakes in the 1991/92 cycle. These measures will allow
the system to clear out all old learners before the new, redesigned program
is launched in the fall of 1992. Once all systems have been tested and
firmly established, 1NFED will be in a position to undertake a much more
rapid expansion during the 1996-2000 period. In addition, with the program
being financed by this project, NFED has decided that all new classes must
be a part of a district quota, detailed district and language targets hAve
been set for the period 1992-1994 which makes planning much easLer.



Table 2
Basic Literacv       Post Literacy  Total
1991*  Sept./Nov.   291,000                           291,000
1992   Sept./Nov.    272,000                -         272,000
1993   Sept./Nov.    272,000             5,000        277,000
1994   Sept./Nov.   300,000             10,000        310,000
1992-1994            844,000            15,000        859,000
5.5        Facilitators.  Table 3 shows the projected needs for trained
facilitators, based on the assumption that one facilitator will be needed for
every 25 learners; one-third of each new intake of facilitators is assumed to
drop out each year. During the project period, over 19,900 facilitators will
receive preservice training and an inservice refresher course, and an
additional 19,200 will receive a second refresher course. The process for
selecting new facilitators has been made more systematic than it was in the
early years; applicants will have to complete an application form, have the
endorsement of local leaders, state the precise location of their class, pass
a simple literacy test in the local language, agree to run at least four
classes a week with not fewer than 20 regular learners and, finally, be
interviewed to confirm their interest in and commitment to grass roots
development, and their positive attitudes to community improvement. Annex 5.2
provides general information on NFED's proposed facilitator selection process.
Table 3
Facilitator Recuirements
Total             Hew        2nd Year   3rd Year    4th Year
1991         10,880
1992         10,880            5,440        5,440
1993         10,880            4,560        3,600       2,720
1994         12,000            4,425        3,055       1,800       2,720
1992-1994                      14,425       12,095      4,520       2,720
5.6          Supoevisor.  Based on the targeted number of facilitators,
the number of supervisors has been estimated as shown in Table 4. The
estimates assume one supervisor will be needed for every 15 classes, and
that 20% of the original stock of supervisors will drop out each year. In
light of the attractive incentives that will be available after three years



- 12 -
of supervision (see para. 5.23), it is expected that supervisors will Stay
with the program for up to five years.  During the project period over
1,000 supervisors will need initial training, supervised supervision and
refresher inservice training, and about one-quarter of these will receive a
necond refresher course.
Table 4
Sunervigor Rtaoirements
Total      NMn._X              3rd Yr           Sth YYr
1991
1992      725       725
1993      725       145       580
1994      8oo       256       109         435
1992-1994         1,126       689         435
C. Proieot Elements
5.7          .nstitutional sunRort.  British ODA has recently carried out a
detailed management strengthening consultancy for NFED to help determine an
appropriate structure, reporting linkages and delegation arrangements to
ensure that NFED operates effectively. Following this, NFED has appointed
a program manager and a head for both the Research and the Planning Unit,
both of whose qualifications and experience are consistent with the
consultancy recommendations. The current structure at the central,
regional, and district level, which is evolving rapidly, is shown in Annex
5.3. A proposed staffing plan for all three levels of NFED is shown in
Annex 5.4. Most of the 800 or more staff who are now involved in program
implementation have experience in the management and monitoring of the
formal education system, but have only recently begun to be involved in
managing literacy programs. Intensive inservice training of three staff
has already started, and will be run on a regular basis with the aid of
short-term local and foreign consultants throughout the project period.
Further, foreign and local consultants are being recruited in the areas of
planning and management, project management, fleet management and
logistics; and consultants will be employed to assist in procurement,
accounting, and architectural and engineering services. Any foreigners
used must have a long involvement in the implementation of successful
literacy programs in other third-world countries. In addition, certain key
staff are being selected for overseas study tours and training.  An_nX  E.5
includes a list of consultant and U.N. Volunteer needs. Prior to
effectiveness, long-term consultants in Research and Evaluation and in
Administration and Management will have been recruited, and official
requests will have been sent to the U.N. for the recruitment of U.N.
Volunteers.
5.8          Currently, HQs staff of NFED are scattered over several widely
dispersed sites in the Accra metropolitan area. It is thus planned that a
central office block and focal point for the program will be constructed in
a central location early on in the program. It will have a gross area of
about 2,000 square meters and will be called "Literacy Houee." In
addition, given the large quantities of goods (often easily marketable)
that will be procured under this project, it is considered that a protected



- 13 -
yard must be conetructed for container storage, with a omall warehouse
where goods can be aorted for onward distribution. Sites for both Literacy
House and the warehouce have been secured. Sketch designs of Literacy House
and the NFED warehouse are shown In Annex 5.6.
5.9          In light of the fact that NFED itself L  a young organization,
and its regional and district offices are even younger, none of these
offices has even a minimum of furniture, office equipment, vehicles, or
storage facilities. If these offices are to operate effectively they must
be provided with basic facilities.  A small printing press will also be put
in place at headquartoro, for the production of small print runs and
prototype materials for testing, supported by a desktop printing facility,
programmed to produce materials in all the literacy languages used in the
program. All major print runs will be produced on the basis of competitive
tendering by commercial printing houses. Transport of materiale to regions
and districts will be done through private haulage companies.
5.10          The credit will be used to finances  consultant services,
staff training, construction of an office and warehouse, and provision of
furniture, office equipment and transportation for headquarters, regional
and district offices.
5.11          Researh.mnitorino. and evaluation,  A large number of
initiatives are currently being tested. For example, in addition to the
mainstream NFED literacy program there are small-scale experiments being
run with the aid of WHO, FAO, UNFPA, as well as the larger GILLBT programs
described above. Research in all of these micro-programs can provide
insights into how the mainstream program can be adapted and improved. CODE
is planning to evaluate the impact of the two Ghanaian language newspapers
ourrently being produced by the Institute of Adult Education to provide
guidance for the design of new newspapers. Research is also being planned
to study the cormparative effectiveness of different lighting systems, while
evaluation is taking place on the comparative effectiveness of facilitators
with different backgrounds (i.e., are primary teachers more or less
effective than non-teachers).
5.12          These activities demonstrate that a central emphasis of
NFBD'e current work is on research, evaluation, and monitoring. A special
research unit has been created at the central level, all regional staff are
being trained in research, and at both regional and district levels there
are clearly-designated monitoring and evaluation officers. As preliminary
results from ongoing researrh and evaluation become available, training
programs and class organization will be modified accordingly. In addition
to its ongoing monitoring and evaluation functions, NFED will dev',te
considerable resources to a program of external research and evaluation.
This program will rely on a multi-disciplinary group composed of two or
three researchers from each Ghana's three universities. This group will be
responsible for approving proposals that will be eligible for funding
through a specially-created Research Fund to carry out agreed projects.
Funding priority will be given to proposals whose results would have an
immediate impact on improving teaching methodology and materials. The
first of these is a three-month study to compare the literacy program's
effectiveness in two districts, one located in a pilot area and the other
in a non-pilot area which is providing insights useful for effective
implementation. The second is examining the effectiveness and coverage of
existing FM broadcasting in supporting the literacy program. Anne__ 5Z
sets out NFED's plan to institutionalize monitoring, evaluation, and
research activities in the literacy program.
5.13          In addition, NFED has decided to identify one district each
year that will be treated as a special "research district" for the purpose
of testing new ideas for incorporation into the literacy program (Dangbe



- 14 -
Went near Accra has been selected for the first year). The creation of
this special district will provide an opportunity, for example, to
experiment and draw on LnternatLonal experience wlth a number of dLfferent
teaching methods prlor to further program expanaLon. A local research
conesultant is being recruited to take charge of the actLvitLes in the
research distrLit, and will be asieLted by National Service perBonnel.
Anex SL  deseribes prelmimnary plane for the research dietrict.  Finally,
NFED has produced a detailed plan for Research, Evaluation and MonitorLng
for 1992/93.
5.14          The project, through Norwegian co-financing, will support the
employment of long- and short-tern consultants, training of key staff in
research methodology, research grants to local tertiary-level educatios
institutions, linkages betwee local and foreign institutions Involved in
literacy research, the costs of operating the "research districts," and the
costs of vehicles and equipment to be used in research and evaluation
activities.
5.15           classroom teachina.  As a result of pre-appraisal and
appraisal recommendatlone, several importanit changes have been incorporated
in the content of the materials and the teaching methods being used.
FLrst, teaching in moving away from syllable drills towards a modified
Freireian approach based on key words and slogans. Second, the
transmission of functional messages to learners has been strengthened and
involvement in related community improvemelnt activities is being
encouraged. These changes are reflected ln the greater emphasLs belng
given to dLcuosLons of development themes and to LncorporatLng communlty
development activities into the regular class schedule. Third, the
teaching of functional numeracy skills is being stressed, in responae to
expressed demand from learners, who consLder the abllity to calculate in
the market and in other areas of financial transaction to be of high
importance. Fourth, the program is addressing the special neads of women
iln a variety of ways (e.g., focuinag the diLcussions of functional themes
more clearly on issues of particular interest to women, such as nutrition
and child care).
5.16          Based on an evaluatLon of its progress over the past year,
NFED has decided that all facllitators will reesive three weeks of training
prior to running a class. The new training program places less emphasis on
teaching the theory behlnd functLonal literacy and greater emphaeis on
practice of the new teaching techniques. In addition, trainees will be
taught a number of more complex skills that are crLtical to successful
implementatLon of the program. Most importantly, they will receive
traLning and atep-by-step guLdance on how to organize diecussLons on
community problems and how to plan and carry out development activLties to
lmplement deciaLsons leading out of the dlecuseions. The revised traLnLng
course will also hlghlight lesson planning, the use of Lnetructional
materlals, simple record keepLng, and student motivation and evaluation
techniques. In addltion to the initial three-week course, facilitatora
will receive four days of follow-up trainLng (held on two weekends) during
the fLrst year, followed by a ten-day refresher course durLng the second
year. ThLs trainLng wlll be partly supported by dLstrict aseemblies. All
training of facliLtatore (and supervLiors) will use the "cascade" approach,
where a natlonal tralnlng team traine ten regional teams, whlch ln turn
train 110 district training teams. Training guides are of course also
avaLlable. Facilitators will receive a baslc klt containing literacy
prlmers and readers, a notebook, register, and three manuals -- one
general, one with lesson-by-lesson guLdance, and one deallng with
development actLvLties. NFED's schedule for traLnLng facilltatore (and
supervLiors) through July 1992 is found in Annex -5.9.



- 15 -
5.17          Facilitators can only be expected to teach four days or
evenings a week and to teach effectively if they are motivated. Thus, in
addition to receiving free food and lodging durlng training programs,
facilltators will be presented wilth a bicycle or sewlng machlne as long as
they successfully complete one literacy class cycle (with a minimurn of 20
participants attending regularly and achieving a minimum level of
functional literacy), have started a aecond or subsequent cycle, and can
show some concrete signe of involving participants in development
activitles.  In order to lnsure publig accountability, every year about one
month after new literacy classes have started each district wlll hold a
literacy festival at which the rewards will be publicly distributed to
deserving facilitators and supervisors (see para. 5.23). A detailed actlon
plan setting forth the procedures and criteria for presenting these awards
will be presented to the AssociatLon for its comments and approval not
later than July 31, 1992,
5.18          Though Government has tried to encourage classeo to meet in
the day time, most clasees are held at night. Since very few literacy
classes are running in areas where electricity is available, approximately
75% of all classes will need some other form of lighting. One of the major
unresolved issues is what kind of lighting would be most appropriate.
5.19          For a amall number of classes running from fixed, secure and
lockable premlses, Government will experiment with a solar lightina system
which includes a solar panel, with 12 volt car battery, and two low power
consumption fluorescent bulbs. Such systems are usually guaranteed for
five years (although obviously not guaranteed against theft). For the
remainder of the classes in need of light, half will receive kerosine
oressure lamos (2 per class, along with operating instructions), which give
a bright light but are very sensitive and require care to keep them
operating effectively, and the other half will receive hurricane lra
which provLde less intense light (six lamps per class). Whexe pressure or
hurricane lamps are provided, participants will be expected to supply the
necessary kerosine but the Government will supply a stock of spare glasses
and wicks.  Research will be conducted to determine which lighting system
NFED should invest ln at the time of further program expansion beginning in
1994. Each class will also be provided with a blackboard (where not
available), chalk, a duster, and a class register and supervision notebook.
5.20          The credit will support the provision of a set of basic
manuals and materials for facilitators, the training of trainers (with
UNICEF support), the basic and refresher training of facilitators,
facilitator rewards, the provision of lighting and blackboards where
needed, and the provision of chalk and other recurring materials.
5.21          Sunervision svstem.  Supervisors provide the critical link
between the NFE district offices and the literacy classes. They will be
the ones to verLfy the existence of classes and the attendance of learners;
assure the distribution of materials to the classes; and monitor the
progress of both facLiltators and learners. The data they provide to the
district offices will be the foundation of NFED's ongoing monitorLng
system. In addition, they will have first-line responasbility for
providing pedagogical support to facilitators. In order to enhance the
accountability of all supervisors, and to minimize its own administrative
responslbility for the performance of this functlon, NFED has established
institutional arrangements with two organizations to be responsible for all
supervision nationwide. These two groups -- the National Service
Secretariat (NSS) and the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) --
will be responsible for assuring the supervision of all classes, but in no
reglon will supervLsors be drawn from more than one of the two groups.
NFED district officere will be responsible for monitoring the supervisors'
performance, and additional "policing" will be provided by members of the



- 16 -
District Assemblies. When a problem arises with a particular supervioor,
it will be the reeponsibility of the relovt.nt inatitutionx (GNAT or WSS) to
remove the parson from the literacy program, to obtain any rewards the
oupervisor has not "earned" (see para. 5.23), and replace him/her with
another supervisor.  Signed protocol agreements for the supervision of
classes by GNAT and NSS are included in Annex_5,10. Prior to
effectiveness, this institutionalized syetem of supervioion will be in
place and at least 60% of supervisors will have received an initial three-
week training course.
5.22          Training for literacy supervisors will focus on much of the
same material as faoilitator training but, in addition, will include
training on how to monitor the program and evaluate facilitators, and how
to aosest them to become effective teachers. First-year supervisors will
be provided with a three-week initial course, followed by four days of
supervised oupervision and a four-day refresher course (two weekendo).
During the second year supervisors will receive a second ten-day refresher
training course. Supervisors will also be provided with all the materials
given to facilitatore, and in addition will be provided with a special
supervisors manual, forms and file covers for each class.
5.23          Supervisors require even greater motivation than facilitators
If they are to perform their task effectively, since they are expected to
supervise each of 15 classes once a month, and thus will be away from their
homes, usually at night, for up to half the month. At the beginning of
their first cycle all supervisors will be loaned a bicycle to help cope
with the long distances they must travel, and a radio aet. At the end of
the second cycle, these incentives will become the property of the
supervisors. At the beginning of the third cycle each supervisor will
receive a further reward, perhaps a sewing machine. Then, at the beginning
of the fourth cycle the supervisor will be loaned a motorcycle, which will
become his/her property at the end of the fifth cycle.  Criteria for
successful supervisor performance include regularity of supervisory visits
as shown by reports sent to the district literacy coordinator, visible
evidence of the operation of classes by district literacy staff, and by the
supervisor's own evidence that at least 80% of learners in his/her area
have become literate.
S.24          The projeot will cover the cost of supervisor training,
supervisor rewards, and kits and manuals for supervisors.
5.25          Learner-mate       and motivation,  All learners will receive
the basic literacy primer, two functional readers (for those who complete
the basic primer), an exercise book, a slate, and one pencil and eraser.
These materials will be provided free of charge in order to encourage
learners to attend the classes and to remain until they have completed the
basic literacy program.
5.26          In order to help learners see the connection between what
they learn and small self-improvement and development activities, each
literacy participant will be provlded with a few small development Lnputs
at approprlate times during the course. Each of the ilnput  is directly
related to a lesson in the lLteracy primer. The package lncludes the
following items: vegetable seeds (related to the lesson on nutrition); a
packet of Oral Rehydratlon Salts (ORS) and a muslin cloth (when needed) for
purifying water (both relevant to the lesson on safe water); tree seeds and
plastic bags (to be used ln plantlng trees, and linked to a lesson on this
topic)i and red powder, which is used ln the hyglene lesson to demonstrate
how flies transmit disease (learners sprinkle the powder on a ple of feces
and then observe how a nearby dish of sweet rice ih soon colored red by the
flies that land first on the feces, then on the dish of food). Learners'
use of these lnputs should lead to direct lmprovement in thelr



- 17 -
conmunities -- through the planting of trees for fuelwood, fodder, and
construction and shade, and vegetablea for nutrition -- and to indirect
improvements through a new awareneas of the importance of using ORS and of
protecting food from contamination.
5.27          As a way of introducing come competition among learning
groups within a district, and also of forging links between literacy and
income generation, the literacy program will include an experimental credit
faclilty to allow a limited number of llteracy groups to undertake small-
ocale Lncome-generating actlvitlea. NFED wlll contract wlth the National
Bureau for Small-Scale Induetries (NBSSI), whlch under PAMSCAD has
successfully made small loans to informal sector entrepreneurs, to
adminilter the scheme. As a first step, NFED will identify tie top two
literacy groupo per district, based on a set of eastabliehed crlteria, and
lnvite each of these groups to form a cooperative and propose ideas for a
few inoome-generating activlties that could be undertaken by thelr members.
NFED dletrlct officials will work wlth the groups to ensure that the
proposals are presentable for consideration by NBSSI and that they fall
wlthln the prescribed credlt amount limit (0700,000 per group). NDSSI will
rate the proposals on their merits and select a small number to receive the
credits.  Credlts will be made to ten literacy groups ln the first year of
the project, and thli number will increase to 26 and 40 ln the second and
third years of the project, respectlvely. NBSSI will be responslble for
offering all participants an lnitlal one-week traLning on how to set up
their accounts and how to comply wlth the requirements for repayment.
Repayment wlll be the responslbility of the cooperative as a whole, and
credits must be repaid in not more than two years. NBSSI will take a
commiseson of 10% of the cost of the projects, which will include the costs
of running the short training program. A protocol signed between NBSSI and
NFED, and the typee of small scale enterprise to be supported and their
approximate costs are found in anne  5.11.  Not later than July 31, 1992,
Government wlll present a management agreement bettseen NFED and NBSSI
acceptable to the Assoclation, and begin implementing the credlt facility
in a manner acceptable to IDA.
5.28          The project "ill support the costs of the literacy kits and
development inputs for participants, the cost of the esperimental income
generation activity, and the costs of local and foreign experts in prlnted
materials, design and testing.
5.29          Cgeation of a literate environMe. .  All new literates,
whether from the literacy classes or from the prlmary school, must have
continuous access to interesting printed material so that they don't lapse
back lnto llliteracy.  A key element of this program is the creatlon of a
literate environment throughout the country. Four initiatlves are being
implemented to achleve this goal, two of which depend on Government.
Plrst, the Ministry of Information, jointly with NFED, will agaln -- after
a gap of more than 20 years -- start to publish and distribute nsational
newspapers ln local languages. Initially a four-page paper will be
produced monthly in each of the 15 lLteracy program languages. Prior to
effectlveness, at least one lssue of newspapers in each of the 15 languages
will have been produced and distributed ln multiple copies to literacy
classes and reading centers. NFED will purchase sufficlent copLes to
provide four for every literacy center, and the New Times Corporation (part
of the Ministry of Information) will produce ae many other copies for sale
as they see fit.  Annex 5l.2 presents a protocol between NFED and the
MlniLtry of information, and a draft agreement between NFED and the New
Times Corporation. Second, NFED has identified a series of books that have
been published in the national languages over the past 30 or more years,
and have already selected for reprinting between ten and 30 per language.
Authors are also being commissioned to produce further titles.  Stepe are
being taken to distribute book boxes, one to every two classee in the five



-18 -
largest language areas, adding five more languages in 1993/94, and the five
remaining languages in 1994/95. Each book box will be provided with 20
volumes a year.
6.30          Reading materials in the national languages dried up towards
the end of the literacy program of the 1950. and 1960s partly because they
were almost all produced by Government agencies. Thus in this program it
has been decided both to encourage local comununities to produce their own
reading materials, and to encourage private publishers to produce and
market a range of materials.  In order to achieve the firat objective, low
technology ailk ucreen duplicating machines (coating about US$8 each) will
be dietributed to particularly active facilitators, who will then produce
their own newsletters for distribution or sale. An experimental program is
already operating along these lines. In order to achieve the second
objective, an agreement has been reached with the Ghana Book Publishers
Association to subsidize part of the production coata (but not the
editorial, distribution, or marketing costs) of a range of different
materials in the national languages on a declining scale over a five-year
period. A matrix has been developed and agreed with the publiahers
involving a first year subsidy of between 50% and 100% (depending on the
size of the market, language group, and the complexity of the material --
newspaper, magazine, comic, booklet, book, or literacy game). The
agreement between the Ghana Book Publishers Association and NFED, and the
proposed subsidy levels are shown in Annex 5._3.
5.31          The project will support, through Norwegian co-financing, the
cost of national local language newspapers, book boxes and reading
materials, silk screen presses, subsidies for local publishers, and the
costs of two United Nations volunteers, one a print estimation
technologist, and one a post-literacy materials development specialist.
5.e 32        1     studio and  ransmission facilitie.  The only way that
sufficient air time can eventually be made available for developmental
broadcasting at peak listening hours in all the 15 languages is if certain
key parts of Government's plan for a national FM network can be put in
place. During the three years of the project, subject to a positive
evaluation acceptable to IDA of the effectiveness of the use of FM radio
during the ODA-supported pilot phase of the program, two FM stations
operating on remote control and using the antetnna put up for television
transmission will be established, one in the Volta Region and one in the
Northern Region (both areas of linguistic diversity) and two regional
studio facilities will be rehabilitated at Ho and Tamale. At least 60% of
the air time on these stations will be devoted to education, literacy, and
development programs produced under the guidance of NFED. The existence of
FM transmission facilities will significantly lower the cost of radio
receivers for the general public in Ghana. An agreement between NFED and
the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC), which sets out the
responsibilities of the two parties in the implementation of the radio
component of the project, is found in Ann_ex5.j_j.
5.33          The project will help finance the necessary civil works. The
credit will support equipment and installation costs of these two
transmitters and related studio facilities.
5.34          Post literacy classes.  There Le a demand from many literacy
participants for further part-time classes in prder to deepen their
literacy skills, to improve their ability to calculate, to be introduced to
the English language, and eventually to be able to enter the formal school
system, perhaps after class four, or as part of an informal second-chance
education.



- 19 -
5.35          The credit will be used to help develop a post-literacy
course in one language, to develop and toet materials, to train the
facilitators, and to run tho classes on an experimental basis.
5.36          Assiatance to  _OOn.  NGOO, especially church-based
organizations, will be encouraged to play an important role in the running
of literacy classes. In order to encourage them to expand their literacy
activities, Government will provide free of charge to any NGO that can
organize a clas of at leaet 25 participants, facilitator training and
literacy materials, even if participation is restricted to church members.
No separate budget allocation has been made as the costs of this training
and materials are included under the overall allocations discussed above.
D. project Cost.and Fnancing Elan
5.37          The total cost of the program is estimated at US$30.9 million
with taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$18.6 million
or 69% of the total base cost excluding taxes and duties. Total base co0ts
are estimated at US$27.0 million (July 1991 prices). Physical and price
contingencies are estimated at US$3.9 million or 14.4% of base costs.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to all items of
expenditure. Price contingencies have been derived from the implementation
schedule and the following expected price increases: foreign price 3.4% in
1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995: local prices 14% in 1992, 6.5% in 1993 and 5%
per annum thereafter apart from staff salaries where a flat 5% p.a. price
increase has been assumed. IDA would allocate US$17.4 million towards
financing the costs of the program, largely for foreign exchange costs.
Governm3nt would contribute US$10.0 million, or 03.85 billion, which will
involve only a small increase in budget allocations from their 1991 level
of nearly 0700 million) to finance facilitator and supervisor training,
staff salaries, distribution and other operational costs. The Norwegian
government will contribute, in principle, NON 20 million (US$2.9 million
equivalent, to be administered by IDA), and US$0.6 million will be provided
by Unicef. Detailed project costs by expenditure category and financing
source are shown in Ann_ex5.15,
Table5
Surnary of Prolect Costs by Com net
Lgcal      Forsio        Total
(US$ Millions)
Basic Literacy Materials            1.2          3.8          5.0
Support to Facilitators
and Supervisors                     0.4          3.6          4v0
Post Literacy Materials             0.3          0.5          0.8
Radio                               0.1          1.7          1.8
Research and Evaluation             0.5          0.6          1.1
Institutional Strengthening         3.8          5.2          9.0
Infrastructure                      0.9          0.6          1.5
Taxes and Duties                    3.0          0.0          3.0
PPF Refinancing                     0.0          0.8          0.8
Total Baseline Costs          10.2         16.8        27.0
Physical Contingencies              0.6          1.5          2.1
Price Contingencies                 0.7          1.1          1.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           11.5         19.4        30.9



- 20 
5.38     SustainbILity.  The project is designed in such a way that it
will be largely suatainable once this project and a possible follow-on
second phase are completed, covering the period July 1992 - June 1998.  By
the end of 1998 enrollments in the basic literacy classes will have reached
their peak, all basic literacy and post literacy materials will have been
fully tested and revised and will be in use under large-scale
implementation conditions, results from the substantial research component
will be contributLng to operational effectiveness, and the instltutional
structure and staffing will be developed. More importantly, Government's
own budget is projected to grow in real terms, so that by 1998 there should
be sufficient local resources to finance over 70% of the estimated costs of
running the program in that year.  The expected Government literacy program
budget allocation in billions of constant ceCis should be a minimum of
00.975 billion in 1993 rising to 01.019 billion in 1995. Some external
assistance will likely still be needed during the period 1998 - 2000 at a
very much reduced scale.  NFED's 1991 recurrent budget is ahown in
Annex 5.16; total funds available to NFED in 1991 are listed in Annex 5.12.
E .  Lesns from, Past_Bank EnerieDge
5.39     A review of Bank experience with literacy and functional skills
operations ("Review of World Bank Operations in Non-formal Education and
Training" (Report No. EDT63, 19871 and Indonesia First Non-formal Education
Project Performance Audit Report (OED, June 30, 1986]1 highlights a number
of factors that have been associated with project success:
(i) political commitment to ensure sustainability; (ii) strong
implementation capacity; (iii) attention to research, monitoring and
evaluation in light of limited experience in running such programs;
(iv) provision of incentives to maintain the effort of volunteers, whose
participation is critical to program implementation; (v) provision of
reading materials for new literates so that they do not lapse back into
illiteracy as soon as the program ends; and (vi) inclusion of a mid-term
review.  Further, experience with income generating activities associated
with literacy classes has shown the need to strike a balance between
emphasizing production versus learning.  Experience in Indonesia revealed
the risk of either giving so much attention to income generation activities
that literacy acquisition suffers, or focusing so heavily on literacy that
income earning activities are not given sufficient nurturing to succeed.
5.40     The proposed project design has incorporated each of these
lessons. First, government commitment to the program has been, and
continues to be high. The project is taking advantage of this support by
moving quickly to set in place the institutional structures to keep the
program going even if political commitment should wain over time. Second,
institutional capacity is being strengthened through the input of key
technical assistance and training, as recommended by a management
strengthening consultancy supported by British ODA. Third, the operation
is devoting US$1.2 million to support a range of research, monitoring and
evaluation activities. Included among these is the designation of a
special "research district" in which NFED will be able to try out new ideas
(e.g., pedagogical techniques, written, and other class materials) in order
to constantly improve and strengthen the program. Fourth, recognizing the
importance of maintaining volunteer enthusiasm, the project includes a
program of incentives and rewards for literacy facillitators and
supervisors. Fifth, an important aspect of project design addresses the
critical need for provision of a range of reading material in the languages
being taught. These include national newspapers (to be translated and
produced by the Ministry of Information), local newspapers (which will be
produced locally with low-cost silk screen presses), as well as magazines,
booklets, books and any other reading materials for which there is a market
(these will be published by local publishing houses, which will receive a



- 21 
gradually-declining subsidy through the project for the production cost of
these materials). Sixth, a mid-term review will be conducted (para. 6.17).
Finally, in light of the complexity of linking literacy learning with
income generation, the project is approaching this issue cautiously through
a limited, experimental program that will rely on the experience and
expertise of the NBSSI.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status_of Project Preparation
6.1      The project was prepared by a special task force.  This group was
established early in 1990, and started its work by studying all existing
literacy proarams in Ghana in order to identify their strengths and
weaknesses.. The task force then visited literacy programs in other African
countries before it started work in preparing a detailed project
identification proposal ("The Expansion of Functional Literacy Campaigns
Nationwide"). It also drew on the Bank's 1989 sector study "Basic
Education for Self Employment and Rural Development". The Government's
proposal was submitted to the Bank in January 1991.
6.2      At the end of January 1991 a joint World Bank pre-appraisal
mission/ODA mid-term evaluation mission was organized to study the
Government's proposals within the framework of what was actually happening
in the ODA-supported pilot areas. The mission worked closely with the taek
force members and local consultants over a two week period, visiting dozens
of literacy classes and identifying the strengths and weaknesses of what
was happening on the ground. At the end of the mission it was agreed that
there would have to be substantial changes and improvements in the
program's materials, training programs, radio support activities, and
organization and staffing. Constant work has been taking place since
February, often involving more than one-hundred resource persons, in order
to radically improve the program in line with the Government/Bank/ODA
recommendations.
B.  Project Imnlementation Arrangements
6.3      Since the project is almost synonymous with the overall literacy
program, no separate project management unit will be established. Instead,
normal implementation activities will be the responsibility of line units
within NFED. Before these units can effectively manage the many tasks
involved in running the functional literacy program in a timely fashion,
several experienced administrative and technical personnel will need to be
recruited and given full responsibility for various key program elemente.
In addition, Government has appointed a special program manager whose
responsibility will be to ensure that all sections in NFED work toward the
achievement of project goals. He will also be responsible for project
reporting and preparation of withdrawal applications which will be signed
by the head of NFED Administration and Finance Section who will have
responsibility for the administration of the Credit.. Consultants in
management, planning, distribution and storage of goods, as well as in
printing cost estimation will aluo contribute much to speedy and effective
implementation. It is possible that a joint venture between the Ghana
Supply Commission and the Crown Agents will be employed, to be responsible
for procurement. A draft performance agreement is being drawn up between
the joint venture and NFED. The maximum time that will be allowed for each
stage in the procurement process is shown in Annex 6.1 and a procurement
implementation schedule i3 shown in Annex 6.2.  Project accounting and
auditing, to be financed by the project, will be carried out by private
accounting and suditing companies. NFED will subcontract responsibility
for the income generation activities to NBSSI, the production of newspapers



- 22
to the Ministry of Information (New Times Corporation) (see Annex 5.11),
and research studies to local tertiary-level research institutione.
6.4      Although a number of measures will be undertaken to further
strengthen NFED's implementation capacity, the DivisionI has already
demonstrated substantial ability to implement the proposed project. For
example, in 1991 NFED implemented activitiea totalling Qg85O million or
USS2.]j9 J4on equivalent financed with 0500 million from the Government
budget, 400.000 pounds stnrlino J2SO million) from British ODA, 3QO0
Million from counterpart funds, and the equivalent of c20 million from
other small donors.
6.5      NEED not only plays a direct role in program implementation, but
also coordinates the activities of all other agencies that can assist with
program design or implementation. Draft protocols have been developed by
NFED clearly specifying the responoibilities of and inputs to be provided
by NFED via-A-vys the Ministry of Information and the Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation, GNAT, NSS, NBSSI and the Ghana Publishers Association.
6.6      NFED is an integral part of the Ministry of Education (MOE), and
thus most of NFED's staff (as well as many of the part-time supervisors)
have been drawn from serving educational personnel. In addition, the
Division is recelving assistance from various central units in MOE that
have been strengthened as a part of the education reform program over the
past four years. MOE's Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation
Division if of particular Lmportance to NFED.  NFED can also draw on the
considerable experience MOE has in implementing Bank-financee projects.
6.7      Popular participation is key to the success of any action-oriented
functlonal literatc program, and thus ultimate responsibility for
apportioning district targets to various communities, ae well as for the
logistics of training facilitators and for assistance in the distribution
of literacy and development inputs from the district to the class rests
with the district aseemblies.
6.8      Past IDA projecto in Ghana have often suffered from implementation
delays. Twio of the maior explanations for such delays emerged during the
Country Implementation Review that took place in Accra ln May 1991:
(i) problems in assurlng the availability and timeliness of counterpart
funds and (LI) procurement-related delays rooted in cumbersome government
procedures. In response to past dlfficulties in assuring counterpart fund
availability, prior to effectiveness, Government will establish a Project
Account into which it wlll deposit up front the equivalent of three months
of operational expenses. At negotiations, Government gave assurances that
it will replenish this account quarterly starting three months after credit
signing, to assure coverage of the Government's share of project financing
needs. In response to historical procurement problems, and as a result of
the recent CIR, Government has already taken a number of steps to simplify
and streamline Lts policies and procedures, including the use of
standardized bidding documents.
C.  ProcuremenEt
6.9      Procurement arrangement are summarlzed in the table 6 below:



- 23 -
Table 8
Procurement Method bv Qm~endlturp Cetnaor
(US$ millions)
Total
co        g                                              ICS      COB    Other   N..F C Qst
1.1 Civil Works                                               1.4                      1.4
(1.4)                   (1.4)
2. Goods
2.1 Radio Transmission and Studio Equipment,
VehIcles, Furniture and Office Equipment          7.5    0.9                       8.4
(7.3)   (0.8)                   (8.1)
2.2 Developmnent Inputs                               0.4    0.7       0.1             1.2
(0.1)   (0.1)   0-)             (0.2)
2.3 Printed Materials                                  1.7    1.7'    0.42             3.8
(1.15)  (1.151)  I              (2.3)
3. IntQ Qinl Sort
3.1 Technical Assistance                                               2.93            2.9
(2.2)           (2.2)
3.2 Fellowshlps                                                        0.54            0.5
(0.5)          (0.5)
3.2 Training                                                           3.25            3.2
(1.8)           (1.8)
4. Miscellanegus
4.1 Support to Other Agencies                                          0.7P            0.7
(0.1)           (0.1)
4.2 Refinancing PPF                                                    0.8             0.8
(0.8)          (0.8)
4.3 Taxes and Duties                                                           3.0'   3.0
(.)    (.)
4.4 Salaries                                                                   3.27    3.2
(.)    (-)
4.5 Operational Costa                                                          1.77    1.7
(.)    (H)
4.6 Consumables                                                                0.17    0.1
(.)     (.)
TOTAL                                              9.6    4.7       8.6     8.07   30.9
(8.55)  13.45)  (5.4)   IF)    (17.4)
For the printing of local language reading materials in 16 Ghanaian languages, to be supported by Norway.
2 Suppon to local publishers (0200,000) and to the Ministry of Information for the printing and distribution of 38 issues
of national newspaper In 15 Ghanaien languages (1 50,000), to be financed by Norway, on the basis of small
negotiated contracts acceptable to tho Association.
I Consultants will be hired In accordanoe with Bank guidelines. Includes US$202,000 to be covered through parallol
financing by Norway in accordanoo with World Bank guidelines.
'No procurement.
D Including UNICEF-financed training of trainers (US$600,000).
e Includes support for experimental Incoma-generating activitles and NBSSI administration of tho Income-generation
program; end support to the Literaoy Research Fund.
' To be financed by Government.



24 -
6.10     t.     The contract for the construction of an office and
warehouse for the NFED (US$0.8 million), as well as a series of smaller
contracts for rehabilitatin and expansion of studio and transmitter
buildings (about US$0.6 million), will be awarded on the basis of Local
competitive Bidding (LCB).  This LCB will be conducted according to current
Government practices, which are acceptable to the Bank and include
advertising in local newspapers, public bid opening, clear evaluation
criteria and award to the lowest bidder. Foreign bidders will not be
precluded from participating in LCB. Draft bidding documents for the
construction of Literacy House, and the procurement of approximately US$1.0
million of other goods have been prepared and presented to IDA.
6.11     goods.  Vehicles, radio transmission and studio equipment (US$7.3
million) will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
following Bank guidelinea. Office equipment and furniture (US$0.8
million), which will be purchased for the ten regional and 110 district
offices, will be procured through LCB. Development inputs will be
purchased through ICB (packets of oral rehydration salts and plastic bags,
at US$0.1 million), and through LCD (tree seeds and vegetable seeds that
grow in Ghana, at US$0.1 million). Printed materials will be procured
through two methods. First, training materials and other materials to be
produced in English will be procured through ICB (US$1.15 million).
Second, primers and basic readers to be printed in the 15 Ghanaian
languages will be procured through LCB (US$ 1,15 million).  Most of these
latter print runs will be small (on the order of 5,000 copies), and
printing can be done at locally competitive prices. Domestic manufacturers
will receive a margin of preference of 15% of c.i.f. value or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation for
contracts subject to ICB. Items and groups of items estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 per contract and the printing of reading materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract may
be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.05 million. The printing of newspapers, books and
other reading materials in local languages, up to an aggregate amount of
US$350,000 financed under the Norwegian Grant, may be carried out on the
basis of negotiated contracts acceptable to IDA. Prior IDA review of all
contracts in excess of US$100,000 will be required.
6.12     Services.  Approximately 344 person months of consulting service
will be required in specific areas (especially institutional development,
program and project implementation, logistics, and various technical
aspects) where skills are unavailable within project implementing agencies.
These will be broken down among local consultants (128 person months),
foreign consultants (86 person months), and United Nations Volunteers (94
person months). The employment of consultants will be in accordance with
Bank guidelines. It is likely that experienced consultants will be
employed in their individual capacity rather than through a consulting
company or executing agency, and it is anticipated that three U.N.
Volunteers will also be recruited. In addition, 100 person months of
overseas fellowships/study tours will be required. These will be managed
through normal Government channels, using Government rates. No credit
proceeds can be used for foreign travel without the prior approval of IDA.
Funds for local training for facilitators, supervisors, and trainers
(84,000 person weeka) will be transferred to the regions and districts on
tne basis of the anticipated number of trainees and standard unit costs.
At the end of the training course, full signed lists of participants and
accounts countersigned by the regional or district coordinator will be sent
to NFED headquarters, where they will be verified by project auditors.



- 25 -
D. RijsburgaMpat
6.13     The proposed credit is expected to be disbursed over three and a
half years with a closing date of December 31, 1995.  The estimated
schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex_6.3.  The expected disbursement
period is shorter than the historical averages of seven years for all
projecto in Ghana and eight years for PHR projects in Africa.  This is due
to a number of factoros first, in most cases similar items will be procured
each year of the project and thus, in bidding, options will be sought to
bluy quantities of the same good in later years; second, the project is
designed to involve only a limited number of procurement actions; and
third, procurement processes will start as soon as the project has been
negotiated.
6.14     The proposed credit will be disbursed as follows:
Tak_- 7
Alloation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Categ-o-ry                              Amount.        Percent o2f Exoediture
(USS million)         to be Financed
1.  Civil Works                          1.30                  100%
2.  Equipment, Vehicles,                 6.15                  100% of foreign
Teaching Materials,                                         90% of local
and Furniture
3.  Radio Transmission and               1.90                  100% of foreign
Studio Equipment *                                          90% of local
4.  Printed Materials                    2.20                   70%
5.  Income Generation Program            0.10                  100t
6.  Consultants' Services                1.90                  100%
7.  Local Training                       1.80                   70%
8.  overseas Training                    0.30                  100%
9.  Refinancing PPF                      0.75
10. Unallocated                          1.00
Total Credit Amount             17.40
* As a condition of disbursement for the radio component, a study will
have been prepared and found acceptable to IDA showing that local FM
radio is an effective and efficient medium in terms of its coverage and
impact (both on literacy programs and on participation in self- and
community-development activities).
6.15     SpeiaL_ a2coLut.  A special account will be opened to meet
eligible expenditures for goods and services and maintained in US dollars



- 26 -
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.   The initial
deposit will be US$1.5 million. Expenditures of les than US$50,000
equivalent will be against statements of Expenditures (SOEB) for which
documents will be retained to be checked by Bank staff during supervision
missions. Replenishmente will be made against full documentation, except for
those items eligible for reimbursement on the basis of SOBs. Replenishment
applications vwould be accompanied by monthly statements from a commercial
bank, cross-referenced by NFED to the related application.
E. Auditinq. MonitorIng and Renortina
6.16     All project accouats including the special account will be audited
annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The auditor's report
will be submitted within six montha of the end of the each fiscal year, and
will include separate paragraphs with opinions regarding the amounts withdrawn
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure. Continuous monitoring of the
pedagogic and development aspects of the literacy program will be undertaken
by the NFED and the Planning and Monitoring Division of MOE. NFED will
produce semi-annual progress reports for submission to IDA. In addition, a
separate audit of NBSSI's administration of the income-generation credit
facility will be conducted annually. Audit experience under EdSAC I and EdSAC
II has been satisfactory. Angex 6.4 presents a proposed supervision plan for
the life of the project, and a list of key performance indicators is shown in
Anngx 6.5.
6.17     Prior to effectiveness, Government will submit to IDA a report on the
achievements made and major problems faced by NFED during the first large-
soale implementation of the program, the finding reported to be drawn from
NFED's management information system. Further, to ensure a thorough
evaluation of project implementation performance and expected development
impact, Government has agreed that there will be a mid-term project review not
later than December 31, 1993. This review will focus in particular on the
effectiveness of the project's research and evaluation system, progress
achieved in reaching intended target groups, the appropriateneso of the number
of local languages chosen for the literacy program, the effects of the reward
.ystem for facilitators and supervisors, and the effectiveness of training
programs. The outcome of the review will serve as the basis for any necessary
mid-course adjustments, as well as for IDA's determination to provide second-
phase support to the functional literacy program.
P. Environmental AsDects
6.18     The project will have no adverse environmental consequences.  To the
contrary, as reforestation is one of the major themes of the literacy program,
and as the planting of trees and vegetable are two of the major practical
activities, the project will have a positive imp'ct, especially since it also
aims to promote environmental sanitation. Finally, it should be noted that
the project would hope to spread the use of solar power, with solar lighting
and solar operated radio receivers being used as widely as possible.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1      Without a literate population, it is unlikely that Government's
accelerated growth strategy involving GDP growth in excess of the current 5%
per annum will be possible. In additLon, without a literate peasantry it is
unlikely that significant increases in agricultural yields, particularly of
food crops will be possible. Similarly, any sustainable democratic system
based on grass roots participation is only possible with a literate
population. Functional literacy programs are one of the few areas of



- 27 
government intervention which by their very nature are directed at the poorest
people in the country. With new ways of looking at old problems and the
information they gain through the program, adult learners will be better
prepared to address aome of the issues central to their
lives, ensuring the health and nutritional needs of their families,
safeguarding their local environment, and protecting themselves in commercial
transactions. The basic skills of reading, writing and numeracy are not an
end in themselves, but a means to achieving a better understanding of one's
life situation and taking action to improve it. Additionally, higher rates of
adult literacy can be expected to translate into higher primary school
enrollment rates, reflecting parents' heightened appreciation for the value of
education. Finally, the creation of a literate environment is likely to have
an impact on the maintenance of literacy of primary school dropouts and
leavers, as well as literacy program participants.
B. Risks
7.2      The main risks are fivefold.  First, there is no precedent in Sub-
Saharan Africa for a literacy program of this complexity (15 languages).
Second, a program of this scale will require a high level of political support
and commitment and a large number of competent adminiztrators, supervisors,
and facilitators. Third, institutional and logistical problems could prevent
the critical supplies from reaching the target audience at the time needed,
thus resulting in a dramatic drop in participants' interest and attendance.
Fourth, shortages of technically competent and committed manpower required for
the design and implementation of diverse program elements could lead to
slippages in crucial elements of the program. Fifth, counterpart funds might
not be made available in a timely manner to cover project needs.
7.3      These risks are being addressed in the following ways.  First, given
the complexity and scale of the program, emphasis has been placed during the
pilot period on the establishment of basic systems for program supervision and
management, materials production and distribution, and training. In addition,
basic literacy primers in all 15 languages have already been developed, tested
and revised. Only when these systems are firmly in place will the program
expand to cover growing enrollments. Second, during the early phase of the
program whilst the high degree of support from the Chairman of the PNDC is
still fresh, staffing and inter-agency cooperation has been put in place. In
addition, though this operation cannot guarantee political will, it can
encourage the sustained motivation of field-level volunteers through the
provision of rewards and incentives linked to successful performance. Third,
support forthcoming from this project will assist NFED in assuring that
supplies can be procured in advance of their need, especially since clear
district and language targets have been established. Fourth, technical
cooperation will be made available as specified program design and
implementation needs are identified. Finally, to assure a steady flow of
counterpart funds, the Development Credit Agreement requires that Government
establish a Project Account in a commercial bank into which it will deposit
quarterly the Government's contribution to the financing of the project's work
program.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1      The following are the conditions of effectiveneas:
(a)   Open in a commercial bank a Project Account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, to be used exclusively for the purposes of
meeting project expenditures that are not financed out of the
proceeds of the credit (para. 6.8), and inake an initial deposit
equivalent to US$300,000;



28 -
(b) Start the first three-week facilitator training program, which is
satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.4);
(c)  Establish an institutionalized supervision program satisfactory to
IDA and provide an initial three-week training course to at least 60%
of supervisors (5.21);
(d)   Produce and distribute in adequate numbers at least one issue of
newspapers in each of the 15 languages to literacy class sites and
reading centers (para. 5.29);
(e)   Present to IDA a report on the achievements and problems faced during
the firet large-scale implementation of the literacy program (para.
6.17); and
(f)   Recruit consultants in research and evaluation and in administration
and management (para. 5.7).
8.2      At negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)   Deposit into the Project Account promptly before each quarter
starting three months after credit signing, the Government's
contribution to the financing of the Project as set forth in the
Project's work program and budget for the next quarter (para. 6.8);
(b)   Carry out, not later than December 31, 1993 a mid-term review (para.
6.17);
(c)   In implementing the rewards system for facilitators and supervisors,
prepare and furnish to IDA, not later than July 31, 1992, a detailed
action plan setting forth the procedures and criteria for presenting
the awards, such action plan to be acceptable to IDA, and thereafter
to carry out the rewards system in accordance with the action plan
(para. 5.17);
(d)   In implementing the experimental income generation scheme, prepare
and furnish to IDA, not later than July 31, 1992, the agreement
between NFED and NBSSI acceptable to IDA, and begin the
implementation of this scheme in a manner acceptable to IDA (para.
5.27);
8.3      The following will be a condition of diekursement for the component
dealing with the eatablishment of two new FM radio transmitters and the
rehabilitation of two broadcast studios:
(a)   Prepare a study, found to be acceptable by IDA, showing that local FM
radio is an effective and efficient medium for fostering the literacy
program and its related self- and community-development activities
(para. 6.14).
8.4   Subject to the preceding terms and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit to the Republic of Ghana of SDR 12.4 million (US$17.4
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
February 28, 1992



Annex 2.1
- 29 -
Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Profect
LITERACY RATE BY LOCALITY, SEX AND AGE GROUP
(PERCENT)
LOCALITY
AGE GROUP      ACCRA       OTHER URBIAN    .U .RL.           ALL
HALE |IM. TOT. HALE FEM. TOT. HALE  M. TOT. HALE FEP. TOT.
9-14    33.7 34.5 34.1 16.8 14.2 15.5  7.2  4.8  6.1 11.8 10.4 11.1
15-24   87.1 72.7 79.9 67.5 46.2 56.8 51.9 29.6 41.1 59.4 38.5 49.1
25-34   93.9i 71.7 81.3 73.0 43.0 56.1 54.9 29.1 40.5 64.2 37.8 49.4
35-44   79.3 47.8 64.9 69.5 32.7 48.6 49.3 15.0 31.3 58.1 23.3 39.8
45-54   66.7 31.7 51.1 41.4 10.4 26.4 34.6  7.4 18.8 40.2 10.0 23.8
55+     52.6 19.0 40.7 25.0  5.0 13.5 15.9  2.2  8.5 20.4  3.4 11.3
ALL    71.7 54.9 63.3 49.0 28.8 38.3 35.0 16.6 25.5 42.2123.4_ 32.5
NOTEs (1) Literacy rates are the percert of people who can write.
(2) Fem.-Female; Tot.-Total.
Source:   Ghana Living  Standards Survey
1989



30-                              Annex  2.2
HoUsHoLiofGil
Literac  and Functional Silsroect
DISTRIBUTION OF 300,000 LEARNERS BY LANGUAGE
GROUPS IN 1991
I                      I                 * 
I                                        II
t    LANGUAGES         I  PERFCNT             NUMBER
I__----   -.--------------------------------
IAKWAPIM TWI           i     9.0         1    27,000       1
:ASANTE TWI            :    20.0         1    60,000       i
I-.----   -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  -    - I
:BULI                  I      3.0        1    9.000
--     -  -    - -  -  -  -   -  -  - - -   -  -  -  -
,DAGAARE               i     5.0         1    15,000
iDAGBANI               I     7.5         i    22,500       i
:DANGBE                1     4.5              13,500       1
EWE                           9.i    27,000
------------------------------------------
iFANTE                       7.5              22,500       1
'GA                    i     7.5         1    22,500       1
5GONJA                 I     4.0         1    12,000
--------------------------------------_---
iGURUNE                I     4.0              12,000       1
iKASEM                 i     6.0              18,000       t
;KUSAAL                I     3.0         i    9.000
i                      I                 I 
5NZEMA                 '     5.a         i    15,000       1
'SISSALI               I     5.0         5    15,000       i
iTOTAL                 I  100.0          ,  300,000
----ou-ce:   -NF-             - 199- -1-
Source: NFED, 1991



- 31 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 2
Reioublic of- Ghana
JLiteracy-and Functional Skills project
THE SETTING
A. population Charact;eri3tics
Ghana's population currently stands at 15.4 million, and is growing at
3.2% annually.  Unless this rapid rate of growth can be slowed, the mere
increase in population will place considerable strain on the limited
resources for essential services.   Although Ghana was one of the first
African countries to adopt a population policy (in 1970), and the PNDC
Chairman is an active advocate of family planning, contraceptive prevalence
is very low (at about 8% of the sexually active population) and has only been
rising slowly.  In 1990 as few as 200,000 couple years of protection were
provided through modern contraceptlve methods. The fertility rate remains
very high at 6.4% and is highest amongst the least educated.
About 32% of Ghanaians (over 5 million inhabitants) live in urban
settlements and this population subgroup is growing faeter than average at
3.9% per annum.  only 40% of rural peop_e and 90% ok urban dwellers have
access to clean potable water. Almost 30% of the rural households have no
hygienic method of excreta disposal. Only about 60% of the population (45%
of rural dwellers) have any access to modern health care facilities, with the
rest dependent on herbalists, witch doctors, and other traditional healers.
Around 150 children per thousand die before the age of five, normally from
relatively easily preventable diseases. Malnutrition is a serious problem as
35% of rural infants are stunted and 8% of rural children are severely
wasted. There is also evidence to suggest there has been a steady increase
in infant and child malnutrition since the 1960s. At least a part of the
problem is attitudinal.
B. Agricultural Productivity
Despite the successes of the structural adjustment and economic
recovery program, there has been serious decline in calorific intake per
capita.   Calory consumption is currently only about 70% of the normal
internationally-accepted daily per-capita intake of 2,200 to 2,400 calories.
The low level of calory intake is linked directly to low yields of the major
food crops; it also has a serious impact on future increases in production
and productivity, both urban and rural.  Despite 20 years of agricultural
research, extension inputs, and subBidized fertilizer provision, the yields
of Ghana's main crops have shown no significant increase over that period.
For example, cassava yields -- which provide 36% of Ghanaians' calory intake
-- have fluctuated around eight tons per hectare for almost as long as
records have been kept; if existing technologies available in Ghana were
applied, yields could easily increase to 20 tons per hectare. Similarly with
maize, which provides 16% of Ghanaians calory intake, yields have fluctuated
around one ton per hectare since 1970, even though the application of
existing technologies could result in a yield of between three and four tons
per hectare.
C. Poverty
The 1984 census showed that 56% of adult Ghanaians had never been to
school, and among those who earned their living from agriculture 72% had
never attended school. There is also strong evidence to suggest that many of



- 32 -
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 2
those who have been to school either left before becoming fully literate or
lapsed back into illiteracy.
According to the GLSS, over 80% of the poorest 10% of the population
have received no education, compared with 53.9% of the total population. The
mean per capita expenditure level of someone with a primary education is
19.6% higher than that of someone with no education.   Both these factors
strongly suggest that at the individual level, illiteracy and poverty are
closely related in Ghana, and that without tackling the problem of illiteracy
It will be extremely difficult to reduce the incidence of poverty.
D. Deforestation and EnvironMental Deoradation
In 1900 Ghana had 8.2 million hectares of forest cover, but by 1990
this decreased to 1.7 million hectares. Every year 75,000 hectares are being
destroyed, or about 2% of the remaining forest cover.  The indiscriminate
cutting down of trees for fuel without replanting is a major cause of
environmental degradation.
Slash and burn techniques are still common, and in the weeks before the
first rains bush fires rage in many parts of the country.   Unlike Asian
farmers, Ghanaian farmers do not have a tradition of continuously building up
the composition of the soil through compositing, intercropping, and other
techniques. Thus in many areas of Ghana soil fertility is declining and in
some parts desertification is beginning to set in. The first stage of any
strategy to reverse these trends is to create a new awareness amongst farmers
that their land needs protecting and nurturing.
E.  Endemic Diseases
Five of the six most commonly reported diseases and health disorders
(malaria, diarrhoea, skin problems, accidents and intestinal worms),
comprising 63% of the total of 2.7 million reported cases of disease, can be
considered preventable. What is required is the creation of an awareness of
the cause of these diseases and a knowledge of how to prevent them.  For
example, if people understand that diarrhoea is caused by dirty water, and
can learn techniques to filter water and protect water sources, as well as
how to make oral rehydration salts, the incidence of diarrhoea reported in
hospitals and clinics is lilcely to fall.
F. The Status of Women
Althoug, the situation differs from one ethnic group to another, the
status of Ghanaizn women is generally low. For example, one often sees a
woman struggling with a heavy headload whilst her husband walks in front
unburdened. The woman is responsible for the majority of food production
tasks but the man monopolizee the cash earnings from this produce as well as
from other cash crops. There Is an increasing tendency for men to father
children and then leave all responsibility for their upbringing to the
mother. Clitorectomy is still practiced in some parts of Ghana, and in other
areas there is a tradition that when a husband dies his family puts pepper in
his wife's eyes so ahe cannot see them steal her property.   only if men
become more aware of the suffering of their womenfolk and women develop a
greater aense of prLde and unity can there be much progress.



- 33 -
Renpublc pf Phpnp                Annex 3 .1
erac and Fun   le
LITERACY RATES BASED ON 1984 CENSUS BY REGIONS AND ENROLMENT
RATES IN BASIC EDUCATION IN 1990
PEiCS UPP ER               EA7   
>            ~~~~NOR TIqERN 
rn     5    ~As HANTIr     
*    \                                  WE:STERN ~EATER
+  fi       A~~CENTRL /     ~
2~~~ .                                      E )LMC-NT RA-^t 
LITRACY  .RAT(. 195
Source: NFED, 1990



34 -
annex 4.1
aepublic of Ghana
Literay and Functional Skills Prolect.
DONOR SUPPORT TO THE FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
British ODA. A grant of UKE1.4 million was provided to procure
vehicles and equipment, improve radio transmission from two FM stations,
employ consultants, finance some local costs, and fund training for a pilot
program in two clusters, one each in the South and North of the country, as
well as to finance the first stage of program expansion. The original idea
was for the ODA funds to be used to develop and test literacy programs in
four languages in areas around the two FM stations. Howpver, because of
delays in original project start-up and an acceleration of Government's
literacy program, the inputs have been used largely to support the first
year of the program. Some British volunteers have also been provided.
Switzerland. As a part of their contribution to PAMSCAD the Swiss
allocated 0160 million to NFED to finance training and material production
costs in 1990 and 1991. 080 million has been released and a further 080
million will soon be made available.
I.    UNFPA.  The United Nations Fund for Population Activities is on the
verge of approving funding (US$700,000 over the next three years) for a
Population/Family Life Education project to be implemented by the Institute
of Adult Education at the University of Ghana. A major component of the
project is to enhance family life practices through a functional literacy
program, focusing on training of trainers.
UNICEF. The United Nations Children's Fund is planning to support
the literacy program by financing costs associated with the training of
national, regional, and district training teams, as well as supporting
activities in selected research districts. UNICEF has budgeted $1.05
million over the next five years, with possibilities for additional
supplementary funding for this purpose.
WHO. The World Health Organization has provided $80,000 to support a
health-oriented Functional Literacy Project in two districts (Dangbe
District in Greater Accra Region, and Ho District in the Volta Region).
The project began in 1987, to be carried out over a three-year period, and
is being jointly implemented by NFED and the Department of Community
Development. Many of the materials produced for this project can be used
in the national literacy program.
CODE. The Canadian Organisation for Development Education has
provided about US$50,000 of paper to NFED, and paper and printing equipment
to IAE for the proudction of two local language newspapers. CODE will
study the effectiveness of the two newspapers and, if the review is
positive, will support a further two rural newspapers.
Other assistance to literacy work (but assistance not provided
directly to NFED) has been provided by CIDA, CUSO, GILLET, and the
Jehovah's Witness Watchtower organization.



- 35 -
Annex 4.2
Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills  roeot
BASIC LITERACY PRIMER LESSON TOPICS
Lesson Numer             Tmi oi
1.          Family Planning
2.          Teenage Pregnancy
3.          Nutrition
4.          Edible Oil Extraction
5.          Community Empowerment
6.          Safe Drinking Water
7.          Safe Motherhood and Child Care
S.          Immunization
9.          Killer Diseases (particularly AIDS)
10.         Environmental Hygiene dnd Sanitation
11.         Income Generating Activities
12.         Traditional and Modern Farm Methods
13.         Farm Extension Services
14.         Mahiagement Practices
15.         Food Preservation
16.         Animal Husbandry
17.         Poultry Keeping
18.         Traditional Fishing
19.         Fieh Farming
20.         Fish Preservation
21.         Marketing of Fish
22.         Soap Making
23.         Tree Growing
24.         Energy Saving Devices
25.         Child Labor
26.         Intestacy Law
27.         Drug Abuse
28.         Communal Labor



- 36 -
Annex-4.3
Page 1 of 5
Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Proiect
A STUDY OF THE IMPACT OF THE RADIO PROGRAMME ON LITERACY
PARTICIPAMTS IN THE WINNEBA AND TONO-VEA PILOT AREAS
BACKGROQUND AND JUSTIFICATION
As a prelude to Ghana's National Functional Literacy Programme, a two-year pilot literacy
scheme was organized by dte Non-Formal Education Division of the Ministry of Education
from 1989-1991. The objectives of the Pilot Project included determination of the most
economical means of mobilizing Ghanaian local communities in a drive towards universal
literacy in the country; measurement of the felt needs of the beneficiaries of the programme in
various Ghanaian localities, and selection of the best strategies for inducing change through
literacy activities among the people.
One of the problems in introducing change and innovation in pre-literate societies is how to
ensure that individuals have access to new knowledge and information on a regular,
independent basis. In such societies, access to information is hampered by the fact that all
such information is communicated from person to person and by word of mouth.
The limits of mouth-to-mouth communication are many and include the following:
the geographical expanse that the change agept can cover with his message is
limited;
transportation makes the strategy very expensive;
-     access to needed information is limited to the presence and availability of the
change - agent, such accessibility being naturally limited;
-     retrieval of information may be difficult or impossible;
-     the expertise of the individual change - agent may be suspect.
Because of these and other advantages which the radio possesses as a medium for bringing
above change, the FM transmitter stations at Apam and Bolgatanga were commissioned to
broadcast development - oriented programmes to the literacy classes established in the two
pilot areas as a supplement to the face-to-face instruction imparted in the classroom.
This was not the first time the radio was being seen as a catalyst in the development of
Ghana, nor was its use for the cducation of specific target groups limited to Ghana.
The radio has been used to take the classroom to students outside the classroom walls in
several odter countries. In Australia and New Zealand is was used to reach remote and
isolated students who could not get to school, and in Britain and North America, the radio



- 37 -
Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 5
was used in the 1930's to teach listening groups of adults, a practice taken up and used with
great effect in the 1940's in the Canadian Farm Forums. More recendy, radio has been used
to carry the main burden of teaching students who would otherwise have no formal education
at all.
Radio came to Ghana in July 1935 and was solely used to inform the colonial civil servants of
events in Britain and other parts of the world. It was later in 1964 that radio far forums
listening groups) project was initiated in the country. With its early modest beginning, today
in the Volta Region alone there are over three hundred radio forums helping the people to
improve upon their life styles.
The National Network of the GBC broadcasts in six main Ghanaian languages throughout the
country on short wave doing 13-1/2 hours daily and 17-1/2 hours at week-ends and holidays.
The multiplicity of languages makes it quite impossible to have enough air time for all the
very important adult education programmes including programmes on health, nutrition, family
planning, environmental sanitation, agriculture, etc.
To ease this situation, two FM radio stations were established at Apam and Bolgatanga in
1986. The URA Radio at Bolgatanga came to fill a most pressing need, since until the station
came an air, none of the languages spoken in the Upper Region was broadcast on GBC.
Thus, the Secretary of Information observed in 1986 that the establishment of the URA Radio
was a step toward the development of community radio networks around the country wvhose
programmes will be designed to suit specific local condition and requirements.
Between 1987 and 1990, a significant number of studies have been carried out to evaluate the
work of the FM Station. A GBC study for example, showed that in 1990 over 90 percent of
the local population in the Winneba and Bolgatanga areas depended heavily on the FM radio
for news, information, education and entertainment. It also showed that the FM radio had
gone beyond its primary objective of producing agricultural information and was now a vital
source of all forms of news and entertainment to its client population.
In 1990, a second strategy for the use of the radio in community development came into
existence in rhana when an individual person started to organize the communities around
Hodzo to form literacy and radio listening groups. Tle Hodzo experiment was unique
because the sponsors were voluntary workers and because it did not have a radio station of its
own and therefore relied on national programmes.
Thus, in Ghana today, we have three situations:
-     literacy learners with no access to radio programmes;
-     literacy learners with access only to national programmes; and
-     literacy learners with programmes specifically tailormade and targeted toward
their needs through FM radio.
The common assumption in such a situation should be that a community with its own radio
programmies should prove, in the end, to have benefitted most from the educational
Intervention taking place. Yet few studies in other countries, have established any significant



38 -
Anaex 4.3
Page 3 of 5
relationship between the availability and use of the Radio in a community and positive
development among clients. Albeit these findings, the potential of the radio must not be
underestimated. Since what has been done at Winneba and Bolgatanga are pilot projects,
there is the need to identify those elements in the organization and management of the radio as
a learning resource which contributed either positively or negatively to its effectiveness. The
lessons gained from such a study could provide data on which improvement could be based as
a we seek to extend the Radio Prgrammes country wide.
-OBJECTIVE
(a)    To determine the management and organizational structures required at FM Radio
stations, zonal headquarters and literacy class centres and develop a framework or
model for all FM-controlled literacy classes throughout the country.
(b)    To determine the type of persoinel broadcasters, field workers, editors, educators and
itinerant supervisors needed in each FM catchment area if radio is to play a dynamic
role in the literacy instructional process.
(c)    To prescribe strategies that will ensure that learners perceive the radio programme as
a vital component of their education and therefore effectively participate in the
production and utilization of the programmes.
By December 21st 1991, the study should have:
(a)   identified those development-oriented programmes relayed by the two FM Stations
which the prospective audience (the literacy learners) found most helpful and those
they found irrelevant, and on the basis of that develop a topology of need-oriented
progranimem fir the FM stations;
(b)   identified the characteristics of classes that made effective use of the radio in their
studies and those that did not, especially with regard to the:
-     quality of the instructors
-     the structure of the class (role of the various leadership models, etc.)
-     organization of broadcast e.g., time of broadcast, interaction between learners
and broadcaster, feedback mechanisms, etc.
-     content of broadcast
follow-up mechanisms in class
custody, care and accessibility of radio set.



- 39 -
Annex 4.3
Page 4 of 5
(c)    determined the extent to which, within the two years, the FM radio programmes
produced changes in the lives of the listeners in such critical areas as the following:
-     migration (or desire to stay in the same area)
-     family planning (desire to have few children, application of devices)
-     education (desire to send all children to school)
-     nutrition (appreciation of the value of balanced diet, changes in dietary habits,
menu)
-     health (understanding of cause and effect, resort to medical treatment, etc.)
-     social life (greater radio listening habit, greater interest in public affairs, etc.)
--    food production (better cultivation and storage practices, etc.)
PROJECT STRATEGY AND WORK PLAN
The Winneba Pilot area was made up of 229 villages in the Gomca area and 162 in the
Effutu-Ewutu area. Both areas had a total of 478 classes and 15,300 learners. The Tono-Vea
area also had 224 classes and 5,000 learners. The population served by the Hodzo
programme is about 1,500. Fifty literacy classes will be selected from the Winneba pilot area
as the experimental group, and twenty as the control group. Twenty will be selected from the
Tono-Vea area for study and ten as the control group. One-hundred and fifty listeners at
Hodzo will also be interviewed.
(a)    November 3-8
Research team breaks into three, each group undertakes familiarization tour of each of the
areas, identifying the following:
-     economic activities of the people
-     class organization, structure and participation
-     class activities, including content of learning, instructional methods, etc.
-     radio listening sessions
-     activities at the broadcast station, determination of topics, feedback
mechanisms, etc.
(b)    November 9-13
Development, revision and production of survey instruments.



_ 40 -
Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 5
(c)    November 13-26
Administration of research tools in the Winneba and Tono-Vea areas. Fifteen learners
fiom each class must be interviewed.
In addition, facilitators of each of the classes and the broadcaster must be asked to fill
the questionnaire.
(d)    November 24-26
Field work in the Hodzo area by 5 members of the research team from the Winneba
pilot area.
(e)    November 27
Meeting of the two teams in Accra.
(D)    December 1-9
Data processing and analysis of results.
(g)    December 10-21
Final write-up.



Republic of Ghana
Litergy and Functional Skills Proiect
Regional Targets for National Literacy Programme
1992-1994
1992                               1993                               1994
______________ ----------------- - - --------- ________---------- _                         ----- -_ -
Region            Male    Female   Total               Male   Female   Total              Male   Female   Total
---_  -  ----  -  ---------------  -_------ __________-_--------
Ashanti                8,431    16,076  24,507              8,431   16,076  24,507             9,367   17,862  27,230
Brong-Ahafo           20,475    33,598   54,074            20,475   33,598  54,074            22,750  37,332  60,082
Central                7,061   17,411  24,472               7,061   17,411  24,472             7,845  19,345  27,191
Eastern               13,193   15,991  29,183              13,193   15,991  29,183            14,659  17,768  32,426
Greater Accra          7,104   14,009  21,114               7,104  14,009  21,114              7,894   15,566  23,460 i
Northern               9,242   *15,978  25,220              9,242   15,978  25,220            10,269  17,753  28,022
Upper East            12,297   20,186  32,483              12,297  20,186  32,483             13,663  22,429  36,092
Volta                  6,726   10,835   17,561              6,726  10,835   17,561             7,473  12,039   19,512
Upper West             8,113   16,889  25,002               8,113   16,889  25,002             9,015  18,766  27,781
Western                6,391    9,994   16,384              6,391   9,994   16,384             7,101   11,104  18,205
__ _  -   ____ __________________________ i _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-____ __-_____________-----   --- --
A1L Regions           99,033   170,967  270,000            99,033  170,967  270,000          110,036  189,964  300,000
Source: NFED, 1991
I.P



-42                         Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 3
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
SELECTION OF FACILITATORS
EQS2E~ QE :ELECTIQN
-    A facilitator must be at least 18 years old;
He/she must be able to speak, read and write the
language in use in the community and in the literacy
class;
-    lPreferable, he/she must be able to read and write in
English;
-    he/she must have lived in the community for a period of
at least two years;
-     lHe/she must be living within at most five kilometers
from the learning centre.
2.  Pcess
a)   The prospective facilitator must be nominated by one of
the following:-
-    a church or Muslim organisation;
- za local society or club eg. women's group, farmers,
association, a youth organisation;
Actual members of the organisation will be an advantage.
b)   The nomination will have to be sent to the supervisor
for the zone in the first instance, who will pass it on
to the District NFED Organizer;
c)   The NEED Organiser will in turn discuss the candidate
with the Local Literacy Advisory Committee.  If the
concensus is favourable, the candidate is interviewed;
d)   All appointed candidates will receive training before
assuming work as literacy facilitators;
e)   Appointments are reviewed at the end of every literacy
yearr.



- 43 -                       Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 3
8. 2mEI TESTI E         M2H  QE. LIKLTARI. FACIL.TTATORS
A)       S;KILLS - 15 members
1.   Mention three advantages of literacy to the individual
(3)
2.   Why do you think that the government is determined to
wipe out Illiteracy (5)
3.   How would you define -literacy" in the contemporary
society? (3)
4.   What percentage of Ghana's population is illiterate and
why do you think this is so high. (4)
B)  AIEETM  - (15)
5.   Which do you think will be more difficult: teaching
children or adult? Give reasons (3)'
6.   If an adult learners sleeps in class all the time, what
do you think will be the likely cause, and what can you
do to help him or her?  (5)
7.   What problems do you think a literacy facilitator will
have in his or her work (5)
8.   How would you help a learner who is slow and falls
behind the rest of the class: (2)
C)   E01i2 = MOTOR. - 20
Read two passage from the Primer and answer the
following questions.
9.   Briefly discuss the problem the passage is highligting,
showing its causes and effects (5)
10   Mention ways by which the problems can be overcome in
your society (5)
JI
11.  Turn to the composite picture and evaluate its               ,
effectiveness as a teaching device. In other words, to
what entent does the picture serve to highlight the
issues being discussed. (5)
12.  What activities apart from reading would you introduce
to the class or let the class perform, if you are
teaching the lesson. (5)



- 44 -                           Annex 5.2
Page 3 of 3
FACIL.ITAToS             WA     S ELQ2i1
1.    Name  ...................................................
2.    Name of Village where applicant lives ..................
3.    Place where class meets .................................
4.    Academic qualifications of applicant ..................
5.    Occupation of applicant ................... .............
6.    Date of birth of applicant .... .........................
7.    Age last birthday.............................
S.    Sex  ...................................................
9.    Marital Status ........................................
10.  No. of Children  .............................*.-
11.  Languages spoken  ...... ...................
12.   Languages read ........................................
13.  Teaching experience ................. ....
(i)    Formal school         -     level ......................
-     number of years ...........
(ii)    Adult literacy  -          member of years ............
(iii)  Other teaching experience                  ...........
(iv)   Other working experience .........................
Source: NFED, 1991



-. 45 -
Annex 5.3
Page 1 of 5
RE-PUBLIC OF GHANA
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
Organizational and Administrative Structures for Non Formal
Education - Central, Regional and District Levels
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIVISION
SECR5ARIA           PROGRAMME MANGR.TAIMING UNIT
WTI?oouw?i                          DISTRICT OROANISERS (110)
La=.



4 46 -                               Annex  5.3
Page 2 of 5
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED STRUCTURE
CENTRAL LEVEL
FIELD OPERATIONS SECTION
C_e, e.w^*eoee COHS%t.&ITSI
DaTm  OKICYOR                                 DUUT? DIUCTOI
gzTusrov                           t~~~~~~~aliItQio NGT.
115 sell       TIlITI O  DV PITt              UStic 
suzI0 floG.     SUEDEflOG.       SUEE Pa.   1SK! eioo  suito  fsog.  sigoi ofog
offIC1is 2)     OfICIs tlJ)      OftICus (1)      OffICERS (2  oUiCIs     OffidCEs
fiDGEANK         ERoguUK          BioGEuI        P1001W!    hOeGEAf        tiOGEANI
o0IFc18s         OffiCUS         0GUIdtS        OffIClES     Off1 IClS O1 TICUs
(4)              (2)                           (4)          (             (t1
sicuia&LTt
. _~~~~~~~~~~ETI I            ,, 



- 47 -                                      Annex  5.3
Page 3 of 5
Republig
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED STRUCTURE
CENTRAL LEVEL
MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT SECTION
DIIETO*                  DVIOR
DM  DIRICTOI                                           DoPg"Y DItCTO
(BASIC LITERCY)                                        (POST LITERCY)
SEnioR flog.         SEnio  P1OG.            RAIO         LII  SKILLS   OCCOPATIEIAL    cmc                POST hiTAC
omFcu              OIYICII             PROGANI          SEIOR        SKILS          AIAIERSS          SENioR p10G.
usiWiC  hI         muTh  EAT=A          SENOR P10G.         II%=AR    SENIOR P1OG.  SENIOR                 omczi
DEVEOPu BETOFfES                                           omcn          omcu           nootm
(2)                    I _) 
oFficER             OgrIenS              OFFIcER         OFFICES         OFFICER        OflicU.S          OFFES
(4) ~    ~                     !         -(6)tts
SECRETARIAT~S02



_ 48                                  Annex  5.3
Page 4 of 5
Republic of Ghan
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED STRUCTURE
REGIONAL LEVEL
RE6I011M     v . .    CAOIITTIU
eo-ORDIATOR 1 
- ISGBrXDUCHI01 conims
O mEl SOCUL SICTO
B6I0UIONAL TBAI   I DNmNI)
IE6 t1 tl14)
BX0RPROGRAM
offici (1)
TAINING ABl    iIG POGIABI
P8OGR0M  oTNICURS             CO-GODIITO! (1)
NATIONAL SlIRICE
EUSOINIL (3)
I      :ACCOUNTS ASSISTANT
(1)
SRITUST
______
t___VN I



49 -                         Annex 5.3
Page 5 of 5
Re.ubLi_ 'f Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED STRUCTURRE
DISTRICT LEVEL
LSIIIID:C4YION courru:
j           I tor SOCtAL SzIC01 COllIttU)
ntiu or aS cz2)                             OtIICS1 (l     &LAU&IO1 oGJiCIE
. _~~~~~~~~ __   __T
AccouTs aSESTANY (1)
WOAL LI?IXC?
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~COW?ITI
INSUYZITIL SD?TIIVOIS
[?OLUITAIT IACILITA?UIS



Annex 5.4
- 50 -                                           Page 1 of 5
Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED Staffing Plan
(1991-1996)
National Headguartera             No. Needed       1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
National Coordinator               I                I       -
(NFED Chief Dimctor)               I                         I I
(NFED Deputy Chief Director)       2                                 I .              I
4                1       1        1                1 I
Admin. & Finance Section
Head of tho Section                I                I
AdmInistratIon Unit
Sar Officer       I                         1 I
Officer           4                1       -        I       I
Clcrk(Typist      5                3       .          I                      I
Finance UVt
Sn-. Accountant    I                       -        I
Accountant        3                1       .                I        .       I
Ast. Accountant   3                3       -                -
(LogIstIcs Procurement Untl)
Officer           5                -       2        -       I        1       I
Clc*ttvypist      3                        I        -       I                I
(StaMfing Unit)
Snr. Officer      I                        I                -        *       -
Officer           3
Ct^f4F.ypist      I                        I        -
(Public Relatlonflnfo. Unit)
Officere          2                2                -                I
Clesrypist        I                        I        *
34              LO       _       4        a       4        a
0 New Unit
a Reallocated or Expanded Unit



Annex 5.4
-51-                                                   Page 2 of 5
Field Operition Section                No. Needed          1991      1992      1993      1994      1995  .  1996
Diretor              I                   1
Deputy Director      2                   1         -                   I        -         -
ClcrkTypist         4                   3         -         .         1        _
Snr. Officer         2                             1                  -          1
Officers             4                   3                        - I
Clcypist             I                                       -         -        - 
?dffltoif0      Ealntin nit
Snr. Oficer          2                             1                  -          1        -
Officers             4                   2         -         I         -         -         1
ClerkTypist          2                   2              -              -        -
Officers             5                   2         1         -         I
ClerWSypist          2                   2         -         *        *
Officers             3                   1         -         1        -          1
Clerkrrypist         I                   I         -        .         -         .
IT Entefor Dev.-Unti
Ofmicers             5                   5         .         -
ClelrkTypist         I                   -         I         -        -         -
(Res0      &      _Ine Unit)
Silr. Officer        2                   .                  .          I
Ofrtcer              4                             I         1        -            . .
ClCrk/Typist         2                   -         X         -                  - -
Officers             3                   .         2         1        -
Clerk/Typist         I                             I                  -
2A       IQ        a         a         a         A



- 52 -                                            Annex 5.4
Page 3 of 5
Material Dry. Section                  No. Needed         1991      1992      1993      1994     1995      1996
Dirmctor             I                  1         -                  .         .
Deputy Director    2                    1         .         -                  1 I
Clerk/Typist         4                  4         .         .                  .
Prnt Matterial Unit
Snr. Officer         2                  1         -                  1
Officers             6                  4         -                  -         I
Clerk/Typist         3                  3         -         -        -
LIref SkIlls Unit
Snr. Officer         I                  -         I
Officer              2                  1         -         -        -         1
Occunatlonal Skills Unit
Snr. Officer         I                                     -         I
Officer              2                  1         -         -        -         -         I
Clvii A_Mreness UJni
Snr. Officer         I                            -         I
Officer              2                  1         -         -        -                   1
Snr. Officer         2                  1                   1
Officer              4                  2         1        -         I
Clerk/Typist         3                            1         -        I         -         1
Post-Literaev Unit
Snr. Officer         2                  -         I        -         I
Officer              4                  1         -         I        -         I
Clerk/Typist         2                  -         I         -                            1
(tandlo Pr'ogmm Unlt)
Snr. Officer         2                            -             I         -
Officer              6                            2         -        2         1         1
Clerk/Typist         3                  *         1         I        *         I
55                  1       2                   2         2



_ 53  -                                        Annex  5.4
Page 4 of 5
flei$onal CentersilO)          No. Needed       1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Regional Coor.     10               10
Senior Officer    10                -       -            -            10
Training Officer    20              1       9        -       10
Progam  Officer    10               6       4
Radio Prog. Coor.  10               -       10 t             -        -        -
Admin. Assistant   10              2        8        -       -        .        -
Clerk/Typist       10                       10               -        -
80               19      41               10       1-0
DIStric Centrsfl10)
District Coor.     110              110     -
Tmaining Officer/
Supervisor        220                       110      -       55       -       55
Supplies/Logistics
Officer            110                      110
Admin. Assistant   110 I                    55       -       55
Clerk/Typist       110              -       -        55      -        55
6110    27_5    55       11       5       L5



Annex 5.4
- 54-                                                   Page 5 of 5
Transportation Needed for NFED's
Functional Literacy Program
Item                    LevGl    No. Needed          1991     1992     1993      1994
TansDortatlon
Sedan                   Nat. HQ    7                  2         3        2        -
2                 2        3        2         :
4WD                     Nat. HQ    8                  2         3        3
Reg. Off. 15                  5        10
Dist. Off. 65                          20       20       25
88                7        33       23       25
Motorcycle              Nat. HQ    5                           5         -
Reg. Off. 40                  -        20       10        10
Dist. Off. 370                -        150      110       110
415                         17       120      120
Source: World Bank Appraisal Mission, July 1991



- 55 -
Annax5
Replic of Ghan
Literac and Funconal Skills Project
NFED CONSULTANT NEEDS
A.    Lonf Tern Consulta (Foreign)
(1)    Planning and Management
(2)    Training
(3)    Research and Evaluation
(4)    General Management Training
(5)    Fleet Management
(6)   Printing Cost Estimation/Print Technologist *
(7)    Post Literacy Materials Development *
(8)    Curriculum Materials Testing *
(9)    Distribution and Storage *
B.    Shrt TMe   Consul
(1)   Field Operations
- Training in audio visual aids production
- Evaluation techniques
- Computer training in data processing for monitoring, evaluation
and research
- Radio production for functional literacy
(2)    Materias. DLevelomn
- Rural newspapers production
- Management of rural libraries
- Evaluation of basic literacy
Literacy materials writing techniques
(3)    Administrain/Finance
- Programme budgeting for functional literacy
- Personnel management
- Reporting techniques
- Management systems
- Gender planning and women in development
- Staff training in literacy in development and community
organization
* United Nations volunteers.



-56-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                 f 7
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
________________  Literacy House and Warehouse Architectural Designs
tQana Ya' 3a   5.;
C.p Arch (N.PC'.'); A A -   ( . _ -
F,1,3.A: A.G.l.A.
Ou. AC/NF.E/GENjd7f /838
14th November    91
*'"r R.F ....
The National Co-Ordinator,                        -        . .
Non-Formal Education Division,
Ministry of Education,
ACCRA..
Dear Sir,
LITERACY HOUSE PROJECT - NON FORMAL
AND HIGHER EDUCATION DIVISION
We have established a module of office space standards o.f
4.95sqm.   The recommended standard  is between 4.5sqm and
6sqm. Based on this, a unit area of 19.Bsqm meters was
arrived at as an office area spacious enough for 4 junior
clerks and adequate also for a top executive.
From the aide Memoire, we have isolated 75 office spaco
units and have allowed 27 units for circulation, wc and
staircase areas.   Thus providing a total area of some 102
utnits.
Using the 19.Bsq meters per office unit we have a total
floor area of 19.esq meters x 102 units, 1980sq meters.
A  floor unit cost  of *126,000qsm  has been used  as this
allows  for   the  specialist   treatment  of  'foundations
bearing in mind the adverse nature of the soil.
Nothing has been allowed for contingency inflation and
hence fluctuations In both labour and materials.
Anticipated Project Cost
198Osqm X @126,000  a      249,4800000.00
We have enclosed the fees structure of the various
consultancy services as used by AESC for your information
and our time table for the completion of our task and
eventu.al realisation of the project.
Yours +   h u
NANA Y    RKU KARIKARI
(CHIECO NSULTANT)                              CBKtO 0



~~~ li* 41iS *                    ***
_~~ E               4__. .   *_                         _,__________.______
a 0~~~~~~~ ~DESSI1W.
*..      ,AcIO ,15PLA,
I.1AUT
-                         liii                 WA~~~~~~~~~~~~iUTING                                     -
t_  _a.f o_ ,mEal!                      I       __
~~~N     u        II W!WIENII5RT
-   __________      CCARIO0~ ~ ~~~~A IAT
EVE AiiNT In          FlECLO
I                   I         ~~~~~~~~OPIERATIONS
Field Operations Extension Division                                 A;W
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t0
CROUND FLOOR PLAN
Scale 1:200



TTi'
tiuTACT       su±s
WE       ~~~civc                                       U'
SKILLS   Ai"5ENESS
I
_~~~~ _I _SE8                                              U IEMIH A?X 
vO    R                                   -       l _v M_aterials Development
C O   R   R   I  1   0   R                 ITst  Post
. t , _. OTt r _ , LOTT
arsesuls      sunu     sm.v!-  FIELPISI  WIU1EDARIAL  *waoID  rAURIUS
Field Operations Extension             Materials Development
Divislon                               Basic
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
Scale 1:200



SEEIFT-    U14V                                                                  No~V ATiNA
I   0    R~~~
SWE-WMRAAN  I                 StUDOJ
SECOND FLOOR pLAN
Scale  1:200



t                        * - ~~~~~~~~~60-
C(ffg-l) OIN g.> g   ) IUSULT  l .age 5 of 7
BJC    ~~~~~~~~~~~                  Th~~vl  I'c: 776316 
I4MI,a.YAWy rlee1#t Vni-lnrl
Itlp Arel (14.rOLY); Ai /. nit- (I fl 'rtV.-Al
r*.1. A: A.0 .A.
)bor R0DC /NFE/GEN/lSC)/7F
.|t'r IV ...........                                22nd November   91
* * -: v * - - * - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................
The National Co-ordinator,
Non-Formal Education Division,
Ministry Of Education,
Accra.
Dear Sirp
WARE HOUSE PROJECT - NON FORMAL EDUCATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - OFFICE EXPANSION PROGRAMME.
From the preliminary briefing a sizable and a suitable site at
Tema the Heavy Industrial area will be allocated for the project.
The site which currently is the property of the Ministry of
Education Is well serviced with   adequate infrastructure to make
the project possible in-all its phases.
The first phase will comprise the following:
1 - Site demarcation
2 - Fencing and generally providing and improving on security
and general service infrastructure.
3 - The provision of a loading deck offices for receiving
dispatch and adequate changing and circulation
area for officials, drivers etc .
4 - A suitable related and well drained and consolidated area
near  the office for positioning of steel storage
containers as temporary storaoe depot.
The  second and  subsequent phases will be  the construction  of
warehouses  in conformity to  the rate of resources and material
-f l ow.
From the above consideration the overall offices area envisaged
in phase is 9m x 31,.20  - 290.0 sqm
A floor unit of some e 100,OOsqm is used as this will allow hard
wearing and minimum  quality finishes for such a severe  weather
en:posure site.



-i  -.  &            +    . ..            11 -t
11   j~~~~~~~ 1    t*-     -
|   I    !    '   ~~~I    I   il
i                           a_ _ _ _ j    ...
< )    t    o-  6   6    O  (&3- 



- 62 -
Annex5.
Page 7 of 7
C  _             ~~~~~~I,|  t,  --, 
LI                      ,   ,  : 
*; w.  ,:.P S                ':. 
.,(                    I., *' I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I    I}
.~~~~~~~~~~~ . ,.   L..



- 63 -                   Annex 5.7
Page 1 of 16
Republic of Ghana
Litera and Functional Skills Poject
INSTIfUTIONALISATION OF MONITORING
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH (MER) WITHIN THE NFED
1.   aAtM&r&IQ
Few national literacy programmes have achieved
significant results or have produced evidence of having
made worthshile impact on the development process
because of several factors:
they have failed to subject the overall aims of the
programme to constant re-examination vis-a-vis the
emerging needs and motivation of the target group;
the internal consistency of the programme has not
been subJected to periodic clheck;
the understanding and functional/operational demands of
the various executive levels have either been forgotten
or have not been rigidly adhered to, particularly
regarding the applicability of specific method and forms
of assessment;
the implementation skills of the various personnel
employed at the different levels (teachers and
supervisors; district/zonal/communlity officers) were
inadequate;
For these reasons, NFED has to institutionalize the
monitoring, evaluation and research activities within
the functional literacy programme so as to be able to
have valid and reliable information on which to base thxe
following maJor components of planning:
-    periodic streaming of the organizational structure to
reflect local challenges and availability of resource;
-    distribution of logistics and other inputs;
-    training of personnel
a    justification of the programme in relation to its
functionality
2.   Z= L1            E D
The Honitoring Evaluation and Research aetivities should
be placed under one unit within the Field Operations



Annex 5.7
-64-                          Page 2 of 16
$ection for the following reasons:-
all three activities involve collection of data from the
field
-    all aim at providing data to enrich the programme;
-    personnel engaged in these activities may invariably
have :imilar skills and experience, and collaboration
amorsg tberm will be necessary.
Albeit the similarity in the overview of Monitoring,
Evaluation and Research, we note the following differences as
far as they are applied to the Literacy Programme.
Refers to those data collection activities geared towards
measuring the "interr'al consistency" of the programme.  The
basic question is the extenit to which eacih unit of the
systems organisationi is performing at a maximal level.
Examples: have all reading materials reaclhed learners? are
all facilitators who were trained in a particular period
usiag the recommended instructional method?
'Evaluationi refers to "goal-achievement," anid its purpose is
to make the programme goal-effective. Since the goals of the
funictional literacy programme are mainly to make every adult
literate, and to enable them use literacy to improve their
lives, evaltation provides data relatintg mainily to;
(a)  the number of learners, retention of learners and drop-
otuts, etc asnd
(b)  efficiency of learning, especially in making learniers
ftnctional, eg. how many trees did learners plant during
the year? how many learniers passed the prescribed
examination?
goegearh
In the Funictional Literacy Prograrome research must be
problem-oriejnted, and mUttst help to increase our understanding
of some idenstified bottlenieck that is hampering the maximal
achievement of the goal of the programme.
The difference between evaluation and researolh can be
illustrated thus:-



- 65 -                    Annex 5.7
Page 3 of 16
Objectives of an evaluation exercise:-
What is the age. distribultion of participants? or what :is the
average cost of training of participants?
Research objectives:-
How do ue attract younger adults into the programme? or Ho"
do we, reduce the cost of training at facilitators workshops?
If properly thought-out, the results of researchl can provide
us with insights that can improve upon our effidiency as
programme planners, administrators, supervisors and
instructors.
3.   EH1XQR _T7TM  CMUI   CIII     9L=D
Compilation of number of learners, facilitators and
supervisors according to the folloffing:-
-    male/female
-    age aroup
-    language group
-    occupations
-    level of training of facilitators anid supervisors.
Inventory of logistics distributed to classes.
Compilation of statistical data on
class attendance
relative participation rates of male/female learners And
facilitators
-    number of developmental activities carried out.
Compilation of number of learners, facilitators and
supervisors according to
-    neu/old hands
-    rate of attrition
-    characteristies and motivation of neu entrants
reasons for late participation/attention/drop out;



-66-                     Annex 5.7
Page 4 of 16
InventorY of the status of logistics supPly, i; particular,
thitE following:-
-    rate of loss of learning materials
-    mode of use (home study, leading etc.)
-    logistico needs of class
Also examination of records kept by facilitators and
supervisors.
Compilation of end-of-year statistics on learners and
facilitators, noting in particular, the following:-
- punctuality
level of motivation
fIQ Yr  1-  Laha.., 
-    Invezzt ory of logistics inputs/learning resources
evailabl* in various classes
-    list of learning needs of classes
-    compilatiotn of statistics of learner/facilitator in
classes.
_ebruaxz = ApriL. 19A4
-    demographic data on continuing and fresh learners
-    data on continiuing education; number of local libraries;
newspaper readership
z -  fla 
AnalvYis of impact of the programme at zonal/district/
regional and national levels, noting in part-icular:
-    levels of participation, attzrition/dropout rates
-    impact on socio-economic activities of learners.
HaxVember.5. L9iL = Fbzu%2a=. 2LUZ
To work in collaboration with the Monitoring team to comPile
data on learners, facilitators and supervisors, noting in
particular the following:
-    number of old/siew learners rate of drop-out
-    characteristics of drop-out /reforms
-    Dmale/female rates
o-   characteristic of cohort groups



67 -                      Annex 5.7
Page 5 of 16
-    larLgulage groups
-s ocupattions.
Also learning abillitiea of learner.
Erh  - 
EfficiencY levels of facilitators;:
-    classroom instrtActional techniqgues and prr .rammes;
-    effectiveness of training;
-    differential performances of trailed/untrp .ned
facilitators
-    common errors in teaching.
-^ ._ Administration of test instruments
-    Determination of "success" in the literacy programme;
- promotion exercises;
-    selection of facilitators, learners and supervisors for
gFards.
Inventory of continuing education activities and facilities
eg. availability and use of radio sets reading rooms,
libraries, local/community newspapers etc during the year.
siQber = Januarz, 1±23
-'   Distribution of logistics: effectiveness, problems etc.;
-    States of logistics supply, loss, tear, and wear, etc. in
the various classes.
-    EEvaluation of the readability and usage primers and
follow - up materials.
Revision of previous years test instruments; ;rinting of
revised tests.
Administration of end of year test instrument.:.
Selection of award winners



- 68 -                     Annex 5.7
Page 6 of 16
Complication of statistical data on learners, facilita1ors
(in collaboration with members of the monitoring team)
dab =2rU    14
Patronage of continuaing education facilities:-
-    radio listenership
use of literacy resources, etc
I_ 3a 92A
-     ~Beport on Development Activities
_    location
_    type
-    planning
value etc.
End of year evaluation exercise.
A         1a
Selection of award winners
Detailed study of learners and facilitators
-    age cohorts;
-    motivational levels and expectations
-    socio-economic backgrounds
Pre-and Post-training competencies of facilitators: -'changes
produced by the facilitator training sessions in their
cognitive, affective and psycho - motor skills.
Instructional (classroom) behaviours of facilltators in the
research district.
Aa-mt -9
Correlational studies of the performance  of learners in the
end-of-year exams eg. sex and performance.



- 69 -                    Annex 5.7
69Page 7 of 16
Stiadies on drop-out/retention of learners: percentage. of
attrition, characteristics of returnees, etc.
Impact studies: relationships between adoption of innovation
in agriculture, health etc. and variables such as radio
listenership, regularity of attendance in literacy classes,
access to extra reading materials etc.
JU= = AiaL%t - :3
Studies on management effectiveness: the contributions of the
Advisory Committee . The scope and limits of
decentralization, class organisation and structures etc.
Studies on development activities models of successful
planning executiion of projects, etc.
Studies on learning effectiveness, effect of facilitator
variables such as age, sex, qualifications etc on learners.
a)   N         QUARTERS
No.
i)   Director                             Overall
Responsibility for
Administration
Planning and Policy
Direction of pection
Li)  Deputy Director    1.                Responsibility for
the implementation of
the Activities of HER
Unit, in particular:-
- planning programmes
for the year;
- budgeting for
programmes;
- procurement of
logistics and other



- 70 -                      Annex 5.7
Page 8 of 16.
- preparation of
reports records. etc
iii) Senior pro6ramme                     Responsible for:-
officers
- planning
activities/programme7
for the year;
- identifying
resource;
- organizing training
workshops;
- designing data
collection device
where necessary;
- overall control of
field studies, data
analysis and report
writing.
iv)  Programme Offices=                  2 each for Honitoring
Evaluation and
Research responsible
for liaison with
Regional Officers.
Collating reports
from the field,
writing summary
reports, etc..
b)    FUSV  ElS
i)   Senior Programme    10              Each Senior Programme
Officers                            Officer  therefore
will liaise with the
institutional
collaborators, in the
discharge of their
duties and collate
reports to
Headquarters
Will also intimate
Research Init about
peculiar problems.



Annex 5.7
-71-                        Page 9 of 16
~~~~~~No. 
L.i)  PROGRAMME OFFICES   10              To support the Senior
Programme Officer.
To serve as MER
Officer
C)   DLWRT  QELtE
1)   Pro-ra1mme officer   #lO             Respon ib e  for MER
in the district.
2D    &*3Z  -  e:.   ee
To help conduct the annaal evaluation reercise
(8 weeks).  This Will involve design of test instruments
and analysS.is of learner yerformances.
4.    I              IiER
Six approaches to .the ekcecution of research
proiecta/studies iequlred. by..the tNED ere possible.
t)   Use of the Division own internal .reso'arces;
I            .  
2)   Commissionlng of University-based, research teams;
3)   Putting up tenders for specific proJects;
4)   The use of external consultants;
5)   The use of locl-consultants;
C)   Co._sce or4.'zg o' icca: to:w  cr.i 4 t;*F   A~  .
The NEED will utilize all the six modes of ope.ration in tho
tnonitoring and evaliaation of Its Projgrammes as well as
carrying out tmajor rearch studiea.  Sach of these
modalities Is described below.
For collection of non-controversial, stra1g,bt-ott.
factual data involvina compilation of statistics and
preparation of categorieOs..



Annex 5.7
- 72                          Page 10Oof 16
In each University. a tearn of 6-10 scholars wirL'De: narcured
and these will perform the following fUUctions;-
-    identifying problems in the imPlementation of the
functional literacy programme and therefore suggesting
research needs;
-    submitting proposals for research in their own right;
-    iidentifying individuals and teams with research
competencies for specific assignments;
vetting research proposals, and helping to select
suitable researchers in five communities for specific
assignments.
tembers of such adhoc communities will be encouraged to meet
regularly.
3s)  ELJ=Hzn   ide                 Dd
The advantage here is to attract the best researchers
for prospect studies, the weakness being possible lack
of commitment to the studies.
43)  IAQ P- Ex1ternal £md rASal-  U511sant
External and local consultants could be' employed to work
on specific assignments such as the following:-
-    collection and compilation of statistical data;
-    design of test instruments etc.
5)   K!e s  £.a. ASsccajn  B.5
In carrying out local studies, local GNAT, GES and the groups
could be comnmissioned for the field work.
Source:  NFED, 1991



- 73 -
ANNEX5.7
Page 11 of 16
MONiTORING AND EVALUATION
SERIAL         DATE          AC'VITrY          LEVEL              VRNUE           PAE1TCIPA1tS        No.        RESPONS10LB          CONSULTANCUS9
OFPCB           IOCAIJLEnAL
[  1.     A JAn. 92 to    Proanins of    Nwond            Accr&                Damgbe%Ve                     LL CoL Aych
6J I. 92       fwlittor and                                                                        moajtoing WA
aupcrvIaouu                                                                         EvaliwMona NFED
foamnaU at
DagbcWat
for tdC wbolo
Ofab=
2.        13.20 JL.      Ccdins wHh                                            Mr. Go GO of       I          Prof. PanditIM,.
92             sultance of                                           PMB                           Gomc of P0MB-
PSM  all                                                                           MOB
fo.lua,m
coznlunity.
zone, diztrict
I                      wg~~~~~ciotwE
ua1lcna lcvcla
S.        13-20JrM       Printb of                                             Pditr                         Mr. PT. A.
92             WDOGCGs to                                                                          Abby
cover rll
ficilitators
and
ctiprvbora
4.        27tbhem-S      Dsltnibuon                   Ltoo. 06ccrMt.                                         Lt. CoL Alyeb
Fcb. 92        of                                                   Ataipoo ta  LL
atctamxtc                                             Col Ayth                      MonItoring WA
Evhti Unh
NFED HQ.
5.        26 a-I         Workhop oa      Nortb:ez ad      Dolp end MedirA      Monitoring em     60 per      Monitoling No        Dr. EL Aac$ku
S&. 92         Mealtotig of    SoeiLmnDir.                           Evuatio           cotra       Evaludomnh
11=6lad                                               Of *in del;rst   (120 i       NPED
mncy                                                 ad  ngloc          e 
Prgtnmmo                                              offi0



_ 74 -
AN12
Page 12 of 16
F~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                                                           _                   -e5  _ =>________
SEIAL          DATE         A/CuVTY            IEVEL              VENll8          PAXIICIPANTS    NO.         REPONS1B1          CONSVLTNCIES
OFFPCE          LOCA! IERNA
L
6.       4 Mar  .       Cotpilaoo of   NKtotw              Aoall                                          Mooih and           Dr. L Aoelu
11 MUch       numbeof                                                                           Evmluuio
92            kuucrcand                                                                         NMED
ficuimrazu                                                                       Hmcdquart0
ccozdihn to
tbr foUrc'in4
a) tzzJemfao
b) gso ug
grp
d) oocpuona
e) kwi of
bTo1  of
sucManord
7.       17.23 May      Workaop on       Nadonal           Mada                4 mcubo of          40     Monitoring ad       Dr. X AsWu
1992          EVabcouab 6  911'.                                                                EvsIuatio Unait
S.       18 Apra .      lnvwtory Oa                        Aiem                                            Moidongw and
23 May        Loglio                                                                            EvL%ow Uni
1992          d6uAm dto
cluo.
9.       27431 May      Woeop oan        Rt-ionl           Rcg. trg. Crtz      4 mnmbau of         410    Rgai
12           Evoauon                                                ech LDTr                    Coelotm
Tccbanqut
,                 ,   ~     ~.__ __                                                  -   = .   ._3     _ 



&  0              ~~~~~~~-
I  sa      v      w -z   -S       -'p 
I                  3:S Itg SRFf     ;W 
U~~~   _
| [§  8 0ffg  8t 0[ g   |iX   t i  o g~~~~~~~~~~-
eW  Eg    gt          WE       |~~~~~~'       U
[fa!
I'll  T'U   I'll    Ut.~~~~~~~~~~~~0



76  -
ANNB 5.7
Page 14 of 16
SERIAL       DAMB         ACIITY           LEVEI             VENUE         PARIICU'AN       NO.      RESPONS1BIE      CONSULTANCIBS
OPFICE        LCALVEXTRNA
L
16.      3 itmo - 24    CmpilWoO of                   AC=                                        Moeitodl and
Juiy 1993    cud.audw                                                                   EvS*dOu UOt
ons ku and                                                                NFED
f6owmi                                                                    Hadqutc
a) PiWMouUsy
b) level of
mMdoo
17.      2 Nov.- 16    nvemso-yof
DcO. 92      IMMIu                                                                       Evaluh nUalt
bpmnqvbs                                                                  NFED
1UOeZour                                                                   Headq"artee
avable co
wOolen clewa
Is.      23 Nov. - 6    Loting of
DCo. 1092     euaig needsl
of ase
19.      12 Deo. -    COpMlAdoo of                                                               Monitoiing Ed
24 Dcc.      ienCUI                                                                     Evahlun Unit
1993         taoWtzorL                                                                  NFED
_ ==                            *_ =_ ..... .                                       .        .......................... =    _   . ......    _  _



- 77 -
ANNM57-
Page 15 of 16
NON._FORMA EIJCA7TQN_ DIVISON - LMINSR OP! MLU_CATION
FIED OPERATIOLS SECTON. EEREARC   n
SN              PEJIOD                     TILE OF             CHEFP RESEARCH           COUtABORAIINO              COST
RESEARCH                 OFCER                   AOENCIES
RII     tt Qujwet  J=n-Mmch 992       Il Impt Studie:        Seitor ptODO
Effoct of the       offiear, NFED
liUracy progmmeo    Hmdquut-
on ifa i One piObt
ad I neO-piot
R2.3    2Dd Quutew Aprfluno 1992    P2 Cmctrica aod           Rwswb imit, Feld csff
motivdon of:
W hailtators
11 Gender scic:
Conference on Who
ItRt.s on Wome's
ReMM:b in ohms
AR4    3rd QuO :r July - Set        R4 Drop.outud            Senior progectame
1992                            retention rta in     oflk. Regional
the Nadonl          offier
nctidonal Utecy
programmo
RS     2nd Qtl:cr Ocober -           RS tmaer Assement    Dieteict EValuation
Docember1992                    Studies: Succ        Officer
facor. In the
l~~~~~~~~~~ai Lo 
Proomme
R6      lIt QUAt. Ja. UMach          R6 Meuictnewtof         Distict Evahaion
1993                            chnge duo to         Oflicco
paticlpatieo in the
Funactional utercy
Progmmne



- 78 -
Page 16 of 16
SN            PEIUOD             7TM    OP          CHIEF RESEARCH         COLLAEORAITNO
RESEARCH               OFFCER                 AGENCJPS
R7        2nd Quater:        Mcum=t of            NFED Mitodraig &        Ezomul consltax:
April-Jun 1993    Utemecy levet:        Evlu&t  Unit            Test & Mcuwnrat
R7 Deign of          Resrch Unit             Spo-WiM
Inetrtxzaects to
dctanniao literacy
levels testing of
l                         lno~~~~famnts
Rs        3rd Qua1           RS Tw scor ad        ReNeuch Uait
lub-SepL IM9      achievamnct kvel
of kl=a  fin tbo
'it-Cy prosax
R19-R2      4th Quutnr.        ImpRct stds:         Dbtaic Evahioa
Oct.  Dc.         R9- Effc of tho      o m/        u
1993              Radio                stff
RIO Development
Activitie
iRl - Level of
peei-cipetlon
patronage of
continuing
oduculona
Facilies: "iang                              Consuleancy:
: Rum
Ncwpc, etc,
.R12 Moiro/Mt                                Elvadution Speclist
evalution of the
faults of the
programme



Annex 5.8
Page I of 6
B of Q f§
LitracZad FunctionalSkils Prc-lect
PROJECr PROPOSAL FOR 'IHE ESTABLISHMIENT OF D ANGBE DISTRCr AS A
RESEARCH DISTRICT FOR THE FUNCTIONAL LXrEIuACY PROGRAMME
1991 TO 1993
Introduction
The establishment of a Research District for detailed research,
monitoring and evaluation was one of tha major recommendations made:-by the
multi-donor mission led by the World Bank. The mission appraised the Ghana
Literacy Skills Project from June 24 to July 12, 1991.
Dangbe West in Greater Accra Region was identified as a Research
District for the 1991-93 period, and Jasikan in the Volta Region for the
1994-96 period. This proposal provides the framework for the implementation
of the research project in the Dangbe West District,
Rationale behinid establishment of Research District
The need to have a built-in research, monitoring and evaluation system
as an integral part of a functional literacy programme is recognized world-
wide for a variety of reasons. The justification for the establishment of
such a system mry be articulated in three main areas that enhance the
achievement of programme objectives in non-formal education.
First, the Research District will provide information which would
enable the NFED to optimize the impact of the functional literacy programme
in other Districts with the lessons learnt in the Research District. The
research findings would also facilitate effective decision making by providing
data on some m ,or aspects of the programme. These include policies and
plans, administrative and institutional arrangements, and the short- and
long-term effects of the programme.
Lastly, the establishment of the Research District would provide the
NFED with a quality control mechanisn, which would enable it to monitor and
evaluate more closely, the learning materials produced as well as the methods



- 80 -
.Annex 5.8
Page 2 of 6
and techniques adopted for the programme.
The aim of the Re.sarch Project will therefore be to research into
the critical variables of the inputs, processes and expected learning
outcomes that are crucial for the implementation of the functional literacy
programme. .More particularly, the objectives will be as follows:
(1) to determine the effectiveness of programme inputs;
(2) to provide information on the efficacy of administra-
tive and institutional arrangements for decision
making;
(3) to identify the barriers and bottlenecks of programme
implementation for corrective measures; and
(4) to appraise the short- and long-term effects of the
functional literacy programme.
Schedule of Studies
It is proposed to study the following critical variables during the
periods indicated against them.
1.  Training of District Training Teams, Supervisors and Facilitators
ObJectives -
(1) to test the effectiveness of training through the
use of Manuals developed for the programme;
(2) to test the efficacy and effectiveness of the
methods and techniques used for the training of
facilitators and supervisors; and
(3) to test the effectiveness of training faiclitators and
supervisors for either a continuous period of 2V days
or an piecemeal basis until a cumulative 21 day
period is obtained.
Period - December, 1991 to January, 1992.



81                              Annex 5.8
Page 3 of 6
2.   NFEI Monitoring jystem
Objective-
(1) to test the efficacy of the systes developed
for progress monitoring. Information will be
gathered for possible corrective usasures to improve
upon it.
Period-- throughout 1992.
3.   Learning Materials
ObeSce -
(1) to test the effectiveness of the new Primers on
the following dimensions: perceptions of
illustrations, interest, acceptability of format
and language used.
(2) to conduct a field survey of prdblems and needs of
learner participants.to facilitate production of
post-literacy materials.
Period - throughout 1991.
4.   Programme Impact Study
Objective 
to appraise the extent to which change has taken
place in learner-participants in the following
areas:
(1) degree of skills in reading, writing and numeracy;
(2) competence for life skills;
(3) vocational competence;
(4) educational orientation;
(5) mass media exposure;
(6) organizational participation;



Annex 5.8
-82-                              Page 4 of 6
(7) health practices; and
(8) civic awareness.
Period - end of 1992 and 1993.
5.   Tracer Studies
bective-
to conduct tracer studies on le-.rner-participants
for a two-year period in areas :uch as motivation,
characteristics and impact on d,velopment in their
communities.
Period - 1992 and 1993.
Methodology
CI) PFjl2_e oF Dangbee t District - The District is located in
the Greater Accra Region. The main languages spoken me Ga and Dangbe
but the NFED organizes functional literacy classes in Ewe and Akwapim
Twi in the area because of the spill-over of ethnic gzuups from other
Districts into the area.
The following data on population provide some insights into the
nature of the task set for functional literacy in the District. The
data cover the, period of the Research Project.
TableT
Targets Set for National Literacy Programme
in Dan2e West District - 1991-1993
1991     1992     1993
Male       ...       ...        1,074    1,340    2,019
Female      .     ..            1 546    2,145    2,787
Totals     ...        e         2,620    3,485    4,306



Annex 5.8
-83                               Page 5 of 6
Table II
NCD Adjusted Population Data by Gender
from 1984 Population Census for2Dangbe West
Population
by Gender       Total
Male      ...      ...           35,726
Female             ...           38,328          74,054-
Table III
NCD Adjusted Population Data by Gender
from 1984 FPoUlation census for uangbe West
showng PpulaionAged 15+
Population      Total
Male      ...      ...           23,291
Female   ...   .     .           25,588          48,879
Table IV
NCD Adjusted Pqpulation Data by Gender
from 1984 Pution Census For Dangbe West
shoin.Ppu:ton Never Attended School
Population      Total
by Eender
Male      ...      .,.           11,426
Female   ...       ...           17,469          282895
The following information is also available on functional literacy
classes organized in the District:



- 84 -                            Annex 5.8
Page 6 of 6
Table V
Data on Functional Literacy Classes organized
in ange Wstas at November, 1991
Number of classes         ...      ...          126
Number of learner-participants
Male    ...         540
Female  ...       1539                   2,079
.Number of Facilitators
Trained              20
Untrained            98                    118
Number of Supervisors
Trained               7
Untrained             6                     13
Sampling Procedures
The Dangbe West District comprises two main divisions, namely,
Shai and Dangbe. As indicated in Table I, the target set for
the functional literacy programme in the Distric t is 3,$85 and 4,806
respectively for the Research Project's life span.
An adequate representative sample of the projected figure for each
division will be selected to constitute experimental and control groups
respectivelky. The size of each group will nevertheless be fairly high
to accommodate panel mortality which is inevitable in studies of this
nature.
Source: NFED, 1991



-85-                                                                    ANN
Page 1 of 3
REPULIC OF GHANA
LTRACYANFUCTIONAL SKILLS PROJ EC
TRAINING SCIHEDULE: JULY 1991-JULY 1992
LEVEL             R__                                              SPONSY=. 
SIN       ACIWITY        OP                VENU            PMAnCIPANTh          NO.    OPICER                  CONSULTANCY            DATE          COST
ACITON
Al      Resionl         NFED HQ       Crc CoLet           7 r6oDb;o a:cb of     35      Mr. D u&b                     .            1uy 7416
training        nd           Uiverny             tbh 5 Southe
Tea            Nrtonal                           Rgiow
(Southern      Traialg
Sector)        TarM
2.     RWgiloa.                       U.S.T. EMi         7 members tch of       35      Mr. Danqusb                  .             Juy 18-29
Trrinin                                          the S Norhbcm
Tcm                                             Resgin
(Norhen
Sector)
3.      Meetin of      Nuional        Salpond            Ncewly.eppolntd        10      Deuly Dir. FicU                            Nov. 23-25
all Reioel    Tranin                             Dbliet Offiocrs                Opertior
Coordiator    TcaM&
forNFED
Diatir
Orgenleetu
(Soutb)
4.      Wodtbop        Nationa        ChrisiA Viage    Newlys-pohrted           55      Trhiqi Officer.      Membe  of             30ch Nov.
fot NED        Trainin       K=ui                Dsrict Offier                  Fleid Opt0or.        Nttoln Tning         4th Deo.
Distrsie       Terms                                                                                 T2m
Organher,
(Nort)
5.      SemIln for    Relgnol        Regional            Weekly ScIna           70      TrInin Omcer,        Member of            Nov. Doe.
NFED           Trainin       Headqgutne          on Friday                      Field Opeanoos       Nai    Trainibg      (FrIday)
Office, ia     TeM                              smnongugs                                            Taun
Retionl
Offices
86.      Woth4op        Natol         M ria               Trinig Teaus           60      Dlector ield                 .            63 Deo.
for District   Thinig                            from ten newAcb               Operton
TrininL        Tecm,s                            dtritm
Team bs 10
District
(Phe A)
7.     WVotbbop        2 menber,    STi d T5rani  Tran                          so      NPED                 McberS of             13.20 DOf
for trainin   of ch of                          for distriet                  He*dqurets and        Nadonal Traini
tems from      the                               (Southemn Regio                RegioaOffkoe         Tem
runsing        RegIon                            (6 chb)
diktruc in     Tani
South          TMS  in
Sector         Southern
Phe B)  __ _I-                                                                                                           =



_ 86 -
ANNE 5.2
Page 2 of 3
IEVEL OP                                                        RESPONSIBLE
SIN        AC1fVITY           ACUON            VENWE           PAIICIPANTS          NO.         OFFICER          CONSULTANCY            DATE         COST
S.     Worksbop for       2 aeca  of    UOlSpta              Trmh&  Team.           50      NFED               )dmbor of              13-20
tralkgtmaem b      sub  RPcioaal                      for S Northem                 Headquaxtrand      Ntonad Team            Dccembo
the rainin         Tealolc                            Regions                       Rc.cioa1 stR                              r
diuix in the       Tamt b
Northern Sector    Notth
(PhseD)
7.     Natnl              NFED             Mineb             National WA          5.        Dctor FlU                                26-29
Oriona eti  on       leadqun                          Regional Neo1 of     HQ.      Operations                                Decemnbo
Ncw Sapervbot                                        NSS ad GNAT           20.                                                r
ga- r tato                                                                 Reg.
25%
10.     Worbhop for        NFED Hred.      Reloni             All Dstrict  d       10       Direccar ield                             4-11 YAM
GNAT               quu#ten Sd      Cpital            Zoal GNAT             per      Opetios                                   1992
Supervbor,         ResioDa Staff                      Officer              di.
(100)
IL      Workchopfor        NFED wd         Rconal             Al Disict uid        10       TraSinn                                   4-11 Yan
NSS Supcrvlaoa    Region  Staff    Capitas           zona NSS              per      Ofiicer/NFED                              Im
OffloE               dim.     Reg. Staff
12.     Workbop for        Dimbt            Dict              All Spavisev in                NFED Rgoina                              it-s1
Dikc7AZon          NFED Stff       Copitab           each dIrkict                    nd Dirtict                              i   1992
Supcvlor. on                                                                       Staff
rupervision
tchniques
13.     Tran of            NFED            Disrrict           Both old and new     100      Regional                                  25 tis-8
faclitator   Lthe    Dbtict        Cpial             fcirktors             per      Coordlnatocu                              Feb. 92
ten districts      Offer Lnd                                               db.
(Phase A)          Ditict
TrA
14.     Ttaiain of         Duict kvel      Distict            Both oUd ad new      100      Diuict Offics                             15-29
facitato  In the                   Capitab            flitao               per                                                Febnamy
remaI                                                                      dim.                                               92
districts (Mmas.



- 87 -
^S5.9
Page 3 of 3
-= _=  s _=  C=== -___ __- r___ __
LB8VRL OF                                        EPMSPONStIBL
SIN    ACfVrV      ACYON         VENUE       PAXIMCIPAMN    NO.        OPIMCER      CONSULTANCY    DATE      COST
15.   Paifonnme    NMED IBQ.    AO=         NI< RW0i1        20    NFED Reglal                    5-4
wpmh.of   MAi RP1ma1                 aMHcadquan              aM Hcadva.ia1z2                mAri.
Ti         Co"dbnao                   Sifa                   tug                             1992
16.  u1dWa of   D imolcvd   D;to CePUab   Sam U for Phan    100    Dir;ia OffloCD                 21-28
foxaiawr                              I Tan1h         pce                                    Miucb
hI all {o                                             di.                                    992
17.   TiniaS     RCJglU      Rcgoa          Tnlons         50 pr.                                 368 April
SUPCavi   Tawas        CapitDl        SUPVAso>a      IqPOD
1h         Tema                       Afic. forar,
promotion                            nutriio and
of                                   bt ehb Exutaron
Dcvcropmc
tend
tow
ardyhica
==__
kum



- 88 -              Annex 5.10
Page 1 of 8
LITERAC-Y SKILLS' PROJECLT
AREEMENT - GNAT/NFED-MOE
COLLABORATON ON THE INSTITUTIONAL SUPERVISION FOR THE
NATIONAL FUNCTIONAL UTERACY PRIOGRAMME
This Agreement Is made between the Ghana National Association of
Teachers (GNAT), acting per Its Secretary General, Mr. P. Osei-Mensah on
one part, and the Non-Formal Education Division (NFED-MOE), acting per Its
Natlonal Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J. Mettie-Nunoo, oni the other part.
WHEREBY:
The Rational for instiltutionaizizng Supervision
1.  The National Functional Literacy Programme needs a strong, regular
system of monitoring and supervision for the following reasons:-
I)  The voluntary Instructors are prone to relapse since they are not
paid and not bound to the programme.
11)  'Functional' Literacy is usually organised on small bases, but Its
extension to cover a whole natlion Is relatively new and requires
close monitoring.
2.  Supervision Is very useful as a means of Informing programme
lmplementors on the extent to which the various aspects of the
progroamme areaiehlving results.
3.  The provision of fictitious and Inaccurate information by supervisors
poses various problems In the computation of data on literacy targets
at the national level. To avoid such situations and ensure that effective
supervision Is carried, the following conditlons are necessary:-
I)  Supervisors must not feel they are being compelled or
forced to work otherwise they will merely fill the forms.
11)  Supervisors must nevertheless feel that some form of
personal and corporate honour Is at stake.



- 89 -
Annex 5.10
Page 2 of 8
Selection and Role of The Ghana National Association of
Teachers as Collaboration Institution (GNATI
4.  GNAT was chosen for the following reasons:-
1)  It has Its members spread throughout the country.
ii)   Most of Its members are trained teachers who, with a
minimum amount of training, can perform effectively as
supervisors.
ill) The admnilstration of GNAT Is sufficiently decentralized at the
Regional level.
S.  Criteria for Selecting Supervisors:-
1)   A supervisor must be literate In English and In the Local
Language used In the 15 classes under his/her supervision.
33)  He/she must be a trained, certificated teacher or diploma
personnel.
11l) He/she must be living In the supervision area.
6.   Monitoring of Supervision would done In the following manner:-
1)   District GNAT Officers will be In charge of supervisors
within their district and will collect the Itinerary of such
supervisors.
11)   District NFED Organizer will ensure that supervisors keep
the required records.
FUJNCTIONS OF THE SUPERVISOR
7.  1)   Each supervisor must be in charge of 15 literacy classes
at least.
il)  The supervisor should visit literacy classes regularly and visit
each class at least once every month.
111) The supervisor should keep records of all class activities under
his/her supervision, and provide regular report to NFED District



- 90 -                    Annex 5.k-0
Page 3 of 8
Organiser on facilitator, class groups, status of development
activities, post-literacy and logistics requirements.
lv)  Receive logistics from NFED and distribute them to facilitators.
v)   Promote, coordinate and supervise class formation and activities,
development and post-literacy activitlis, Including the
maintenance of bookboxes, reading centres and rural libraries.
vi)  Recruit facilitators for new classes and arrange replacement for
those wlio fall out.
In pursuance therefore, the parties agree to collaborate In the institutlonal
supervision of the National Functional Llteracy Programme In the following
manner:
OBLIgATIONS OF NFED
8. NFED would perform the following:-
i)   Approve the final selection of suitable supervisors In each
district In collaboration with GNAT, NSS and GES.
11)  Provision of baslc and further periodic training for supervisors.
Dil) Provision through GNAT of one preset radio and a bicycle to
each supervisor for the first successful year of service.
iv)  Provision of a motorcycle to each supervisor after three years of
service with an additional guarantee of further two years service.
ODBLIGATIONS OF GNAT
9. GNAT would perform the following:-
1)   Ensure that Individuals Involved In the supervision exercise visit
each literacy class at least once a month and produced reports
of such visits.
II)  Ensure that supervisors produce periodic reports on the
execution of the functional literacy programme In the respective
district to the District Organizer of NFED.



- 91 -                 Annex 5.10
Page 4 of 8
111) To make available supervisors for periodic training by NFED.
iv)  To distriboute Incentives provided by NFED to the prospecilve and
serving supervisors.
v)  To participate In the regular assessment of supervisors, and
support the Implementatlon of Improved methods of assessment
of class facilitator and of supervison generally.
vi)  To help In the recruitment and selection of suitable persons as
supervisors among Its members.
vii) Non-performing supervisors will be replaced by GNAT. If they
have supervised for less than two years, GNAT will ensure the
return of the bicycle and radio set, and If have received a
motorcycle but have supervised for less than 5 years
continuously, GNAT will ensure the return of the motorcycle.
SIGNED THIS . ........ DAY OF-tk .992
MR. R.J. METrLE-NUNOO  AND       MR. P. OSE      H
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR            SlEC     FeRAL
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIV.          A    NAW    ASSOC.
MINIS iFltATION                  OF TEAVH
IlOUR4O1N .FORt¢1AL fJiMA~i '
IN THE PRESENCE OF
DR. (MRS.) MARY GRANT
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIBLE
FOR EDUCATION
,-r, Et OFit P N D C
P. 0. BOX 1l27
AGGIMA



-92-
Annex 5.10
Page 5 of 8
LITERACY SKILLS P-ROJECT
AGREEMENT - NSS/NFED-MQE
COLLABORATION ON THE INSTITU.uaONAL SUPEERVISION FO-R THE
NATIONAL FUNCTIONAL LITERAC-Y PROGRAMME
This Agreement is made between the Non-Formal Educatlon Division (NFED-
MOE), acting per Its National Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J. Mettle-NLinoo, on one
part, and the National Service Scheme (NSS), acting per Its Director, Mr. P.
Kpordugbe, on the o0her part.
WHEREBY:
The Rptionale for Iijtutinalizing Sunerision
1.  The National Functional Literacy Programme needs a strong, regular
system of monitoring and supervision for the following reasons:-
1)  The voluntary supervisors are prone to relapse since they are not
paid and are not bound to the programme.
1i)  Functional Literacy is usually organised on small scale basis, but
Its extension to cover a whole nation is relatively new and
requlres close monitoring.
2.  Supervision is very useful as a means of informing programme
Implementors on the extent to which the various aspects of the
programme are achieving results.
3.  The provision of fictitious and Inaccurate Information by
supervisors poses various problems In the computation of data
on literacy targets at the natlonal level, and to avoid such
situations there is need to ensure that effective supervision is
carried out.
Selectlion and Role of National Service Scheme
4.  NSS was chosen for the following reasons:-
I)  It has Its members spread throughout the country.



_93_                        Annex 5.10
Page 6 of 8
II)  The administration of NSS Is sufficiently decentralized at the.
Regional level.
5.   Criteria for Selecting Supervisors:-
I)   A supervisor must be literate In English and In the
Local Language used In the 15 classes under his/her
cupervision.
11)   He/she must be at least a diploma NSS personnel.
iii)  He/she must be living in the supervision area.
6.   Monitoring of Supervision would be done In the following manner:-
1)   District NSS officers will be In charge of supervisors
within their district and will collect the Itinerary of
such supervisors.
ii)   District NFED Organizer will ensure that supervisors keep
the required records.
FUNCLTIONS OF THE SUPERVS0R
7.  i)   Each supervlsod must be In charge of 15 literacy classes at least.
ii)  The supervisor should visit literacy classes re-gularly and visit
each class at least once every month.
lii)  The supervisor should keep records of all class
activitles under his/her supervision, and provide regular
report to NFED on facililtator, clasw groups, status of
development activlites, post-literacy and logistics
requirements.
lv)  Receive logistics from NFED and distribute them to
facilitators.
v)   Promote, coordinate and supervise class formation and
activities, development and post-literacy activities,
including the mainteniance of bookboxes, reading centres
and rural libraries.



-94 -
Annex 5.10
Page 7 o f8
vi)  Recrult facilitators for new classes and arrange
replacement for those who fall out.
In pursuance therefore, the parties agree to collaborate In the
Institutional supervision of the Natlonal Functional Literacy
Programme in the following manner:-
QBLIGATI_NS OF NFED
8.   NFED would perform the following:-
1)   Approve the final seiectlon of suitable supervisors In each district
In collaboration with NSS, GNATr and GES.
ii)  Provision of baslc and further periodic tralning for supervisors.
iii)  Provision through NSS of one preset radio and a bicycle to each
supervisor for the first year of the programme.
Iv)  Provision through NSS of a motorcycle to each supervisor In the
third year of the programme.
OBLIGATIONS OF N0S
9.   NSS would perform the following:-
I)   Ensure that individuals Involved In the supervision exercise visit
each literacy class at least once a month and produced reports
of such visits.
ii)  Ensure that supervisors produce periodic reports on the
execution of the functional literacy programme in the respective
district to the District Organlzer of NFED
ill)  To make available supervisors for periodic training by NFED.
Iv)  To distribute Incentives provided by NFED to the prospective and
serving supervisors.
v)   To participate In the regular assessment of supervisors, and
support the Implementation of Improved methods of assessment
of class facilitator and of supervision generally.



-95                    Annex 5.10
Page 8 of 8
vi)  To help In the recrlutment, selection of sultable persons as
supervisors among Its members.
vil) Non-performing supervisors will be replaced by NSS. NSS will
return the bicycle, radio set and motorcycle for any area they are
unable to continue to provide supervision for.
SIGNED THIS ...... DAY                I )9929
MR. R.J. METTLE-NUNOO  AND      MRP.w` KPORG UGBE
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR           DIRECTOR
NON.FORMAL EDUCATION DIV.       NATIONAL SERVICE SCHEME
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION           MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
. CO-CRDli16TC c- R             04L-'C;t
IN THE PRESENCE OF
DR. (MRS.) MARY GRANT
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR EDUCATION
OFFJ E OF THE P N D C
P. 0. BOX 1627
ACCRA



-96                   Annex 5.11
Page I of 8
TACY, S1ILP EROJE CT
AgREEMENT - NBSSi/NFED-M[OE
GENE_RATION ACTIVI-TIES OF FUNC4TIONAL LITERACY GROUPS
This Agreement Is made between the National Board for Small-scale
Industries (NBSSI) acting per its Executive Director, Dr. E. K. Abaka on the
one part, and the Non-Formal Education Division (NFED-MOE) acting per
Its National Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J. Mettle-Nunoo on the other part.
I OQDUCTI
The NFED Development Assistance Programme for Income Generation
Activities of Literacy Groups is geared towards improving the socio-
economic condition of Literacy class groups.
The Improvement of the soclo economic conditions of literacy groups, the
majority of whom (75%) are women, and their families by Increasing their
income levels through the development and expansion of their productive
activities has become one of the critical means of helping to sustain the
Interest and acquired skills of new literates In the programme.
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY/POLICY
The development policy of the project Is aimed at Increasing the Income
level of literacy groups through the expansion of their Income-generation
activities and by creating appropriate developmental linkages and practical
credit conditions to promote Increased production based on self-reliance,
re-investment of the profits and self sustaining management methods.
Selection of Prlect GrouDs
Group selection would be conducted competitively In selected districts.
Not more than two groups per district will be selected, and not more than
76 projects during the first three years. Groups selection will be based on
the following Indications:-
-   Class should have achieved 85% class attendance.
-   CClass should have achieved 90% literacy leoei.
-   Class group participation in development activitles should be more
than 75%.
-   Presence of existing production activity and skills.
-   Potential for cooperative formation.



*                           - 97 -                 Annex 5.11
Page 2 bf 8
Credit Admlnistrat
NBSSI will have all administrative responsibility for credit disbursement
and managing development assistance to project groups.
Maximum recommended level for credit loan to any particular groups of
learners Is 700,000 Cedis. Loans will be Interest free with a maximum
repayment time of 12 months.
The group will pay back the loans Into a designated bank account, and if
repayments are made on time, the group may, with the concurrence of
NBSSI, reinvest the proceeds In new Income-generatlon activities.
Monitoring Credit Admin!stLation
A close and timely monthly monitoring exercise would be carried out.
This will give early Indications of loan quality, processing effic!ency,
Income-laarning activities and general project progress.
OBLIGATIQNS OF NFED
The NFED shall be responsible for:-
1)   Group Identification and selection for assistance.
Ii) Project Identification, preliminary assessment and recommendation.
111) Project monitoring.
Iv) Provision to NBSSI of the funds for the loans on timely basis.
v)  Payment to NBSSI of a 10% service charge on all loans disbursed.
OBLIGATIONS OF NBSSI
NBSSI shall be responsible for:-
I)  Preparatlon and appraisal of project feasibility study.
Ii) Credit disbursement.
111) Providing basic management training.
Iv) Providing technological assistance.
v)  Regular reporting and accounting to NFED to show:-
- Amount disbursed.
- Amount Repaid.
- Loans overdue.
- Time required to approve loans.
- Rate of outstanding loans build up.



98                Annex 5.11
Page 3 of 8
SIGNED THIS     ........  DAY OF.   .1992
MR. R. J. METTLE-NUNOO     AND      DR. E. K. ABAKA
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR               EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIV.           NATIONAL BOARD FOR
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION               SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRIES
CO.o1)}ulArOR                      Ezecutilo Iirector
OR NOfirowtl Elou"s0>* NATZONL NAM FOP S&1AM4. S'.A INmiSrIEm
IN PRESENCE OF
/
DR. (MRS) MARY GRANT                        PT. K. A. BUTAH
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIELE             PNDC SECRETARY
FOR EDUCATION                       MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIES,
SCIENCE & TE(F;HNOLOGY
OFFI'E OF THE P N DC                  P IV) C SEIGRVrApy
P. 0. BOX 1627                  W-W-ISTRY or- ,.rnr
ACCRA                         8C1w;t & ' r-V



-99-
Page 4 of 8
Litgracy and Functlonal Skills P!roject
INCOME GENERATION
INDICATIVE ACMIVITY TYPES AND COSTS
INCOMR-GENER8JT61ON ATIVTYV YVPeS
ACTIVITV                -INPUTS
Fish Smoking            . expanded metal
* baskets/crates
oven/smoker
. wooden trays
Poultry Keeping           . lanterns
, day old chicks
*feed
. vaccines/veterinary drugs
w Wire netting
. water troughs
Weaving                  . looms & shuttles
* yarns
, dye.
* sewing machine and accessories
Oil Ex.traction          . kernel cracker
(Palm, Kernel,          * oil press
Groundnuts)               b barrels/plastic bowls
measuring cups
roasting pans
* empty drums
Soap Making              . oils
. caustic soda/potash
rubber gloves
. wooden troughs
grey cloth
. storage barrels
perfume
. aluthinium pots
Gari Making              . grinding mill
. roasting pans
baskets
seives
plastic bags(storage)
jute bags(storage)



100 -                  AA  L
?age 5 of 8
Vegetable Dryir,g      . solar dryer
o basket
* Jute bags
Dress Making/          . sewing machine
Tailoring/Making       .scissors
of School Uniforms    .working table
*measuring tapes
. threads
. sewing manuals
Car:entry/Furniture   .hammers
Making                 ,planes
, handsaws
*measuring rules
squares
clamps
. pliers
Blacksmithing              tcangs
. r.hisels
f latter
. set hammer
fan/bellows
cutters/.hears
. anvil
. furnace(from bricks)
Leather Tanninrs/works     stake
k miife
drawing blade
barrel/drum
. dye, salt, lime
. stitching needles
measuring tapes
scissors
sewing machine
Handmade Pottery          . kiln
molds
shaping tools
. glazes



- 101 -                   Annex-.LI
Page 6 of 8
COSTrNG FOR SUB-PROJECT COMPONENTS
Activity                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cosrt ( Cedi s
Grcuo-   (Food Preservation/Processing)
Fish. Smoking/Drying            Equipment             45,000.00
Working Capital       20,00.00
65 .000.00
Gari Making                   Equipment              475,000.00
Working Capital         50.,000.0O
SZS .000 . 00
Grouo B -(Hubandry- Crop Production and Mar,ket'ing Pro ec-ts)
Poultry Keeping                 Equipment             50,000.00
Purchase of Birds   100 .000.0
150 .000.00
Vegetable Growing/Drying        Equipment             35,000.00
Working Capital       10 Q000.0Q
45L00.OO
Grocery Shop                   Shop and Equipment  425,000.00
Working Capital        5Q9.0,2
Groug C ~.(Small -Industrv Processes-)
Oil Extraction                 Equipment             650,0'00.00
Working Capital ,Q000.00
700.000 . 00
Soap Making                    Equipment              35,000.00
Working Capital        15.Q000.00
Grouy 0 (Handicraft Processes and Products)
Cotton Spinning              Equipment                15,000.00
Purchase of Cotton       ;0.000.00
35 .000 _.O



- 102 -                           5
Page 7 of 8
We_vi;g (Norrthern type)        q u i roi" !i' tt,oo
Working Capital            50.000.00
65 .000.00
Making of Smacks              Equipment                   60,000.00
Working Capital           100.O00.00
160 000.00
Weaving/Adinkra Making        Equipment                   45,000.00
Working Capital           100.000.00
145.000 .00
Dressmaking/Tailoring /       Equipment                   60,000.00
Embroidering                 tIJorking Capital            40,000.00
100.000.00
Group E (Other Handicraft Activities)
Fibre weaving/Mats for tables and floors
Baske try
Silk Screen Printing
Car v ing /Scu I p tur ing
Pottery
Lea ther Tann ing /Goods
8eadworks/Jewel l-ry
F*i'eh Fe t -Mak ingj-
Handbags and Clothing Accessories
Candle Making
**g  These activities range  between  10,000  to 50,000  Cedis  to
operate.



- 103 -                      Aon 
Page 8 of 8
ftr t  _et _ E)
Carpentry/Small                Equipment                   45, 000.00
Furniture Making               Working Capital             3000. X
75.0000.00
B lac ksmi th ing              Equipment                   45,000.00
Working Capital            30,000.00
75,000 00
Source: NFED, 1991



- 104 -
Annex 5.12
Page i of 7
LTCERACY SKILLS PROJECT
AgREEMENFDM MOE
This Agreement is made between the Min!stry of Information (MOI) Acting per
Its Ag. Chief Director, Mr. M.K. Williams on one part, and the Non-Formal
Education Divislon Acting per Its National Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J. Mettle-
Nunoo on the other part.
Whereby
The parties agree to collaborate In the formulation and implementatlon of the
Non-Formal Education Programme In Ghana in the following manner:
1.  I)  to publish Newspapers monthiy In all the 15 languages being
used in functional lhteraev programme.  The newspapers
programme Is geared towarcs facilitating literacy retention among
new literates and preventing them from relapsing into Illiteracy.
i})  the compilation of news Items will be done in English and then
translated into the varlous languages adopted for the pubileation.
News will be obtained from both radio and the print media.
lii) the Editorial policy of the paper shall be to enhance the reading
and writing abilitles c. learners and new literates and to promote
post-literacy activities with the help of the communities,
facilitators and supervisors.
iv)  News Items to be featured In the publications will generally be
drawn from the field officers, learners and new literates.
Facilitators and supervisors will be expected to play a vital role
In gathering news for the various publications.
v)   Other sources of news will be drawn from the national and
International arena. Such Items however, will either related to the
functional literacy programme or be on important government
policies.
vi)  New Items to be featured will reflect In all other publicatlons.
Efforts will be made to feature stories relating to the socio-
economlc conditions of the Local Communities. Generally the
undermentloned columns will be created.



- 105 -                  Annex 5.12
Page 2 of 7
a)   Editorlal
b)   NFED Management PolIcy News
C)   Cartoons/Pictures
d)   News for the ReglonS
e)   Games/Puzzles/Proverbs
f)   Extracts from the National Dallies
g)  Profiles
I) New literates
1i) Facilitators (outstanding)
ill) Supervisors (outstanding)
h)  Slogans on Functional Literacy
1) Letters to the Editor
I)   General Information on Literacy
k)   Development Activitles
1)   Advertisements, etc.
2.   The Ministry of Information will supervise production printing and
distribution of all the newspapers in the 15 languages.
The 2nd party (NFED) shall:
3.   Provide actual printing and distribution cost according to the attached
draft contract.
4.  Co-ordinate language experts to undertake translation. They will
generally be drawn from the Bureau of Ghana Languages (BGL). Other
experts and the Ghana Institute of Linguistics Literacy and Bible
Translation (GILLBT) will also be engaged when the need arises.
5.   Appoint consulting Editor from the New Times Corporation and Daily
Graphic to co-ordinate the publications and editing processes of the
newspapers.



106                .-Annex 5.12
Page 3 of 7
SIGNED THIS   .... DAY OF   /        l.... 0"2 BY
e  0..   .  .
MR. R. 3. METTLZ-NUNO                 MR. MH. K. WILJI -'
NATIONAL CO-ORDfIAMTOR                CHIEF DIRECTOR
NON-FORML EDUCATION DIVISON           MINISTRY OF INiORmATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                       Chief Director
C.   - ;         ;^e            NISTRY *Fr i- JR.-IATION
IN TEE PRESENCE OF
DR. (MRS) NARY GRANT                   MR:                  I
PNDC lEMBER RESPONSIBrLE                  D           FOR
FOR EDUCATION                          I        ON
1EIZ OF THE PNDC 
F. 0. BOX 1627
PNDC SECRETARY
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION
P. 0. BOX M. 4L
ACCRA



- 107 -                 Annex 5.12
Page 4 of 7
:LTERACV SKILLS PROJECT
CONTQAPTA  RKEEENT-NFED-MO E N NEW TIMES CORPORATION
This Agreement is made between the New Times Corporation acting per Its
Managing Director, Naval Commander George Hagan (Rtd) on one part, and
the Non-Formal Education Division Acting per its National Co-ordinator, Mr.
R.J. Mettle-Nunoo on the other part.
Whebv
The parties agree to collaborate In the formulation and implementation of the
Non-Formal Education Programme In Ghania In the following manner:
1 .  i)  to publish Newspapers monthly In all the 15 languages being
used In functional literacy programme.  The newspapers
programme Is geared towards facilitating literacy retention among
new literates and preventing them from relapsing Into Illiteracy.
ii)  the compilation of news Items will be done In English and then
translated Into the various languages adopted for the publication.
News will be obtained from both radio and the peint media.
ill) the Editorial policy of the paper shall be to enhance the reading
and writing abilities of learners and new literates and to promote
post-literacy activities with the help of the communities,
facilitators and supervisors.
Iv)  News Items to be featured In the publications will generally be
drawn from the field officers, learners and new literates.
Facilitators and supervisors will be expected to play a vital role
In gathering news for the various publications.
v)  Other sources of news will be drawn from the national and
international arena. Such Items however, will either related to the
functional literacy programme or be on Important government
policies;
vi)  New Items to be featured will reflect In all other publications.
Efforts will be made to feature stories relating to the socio-
economic conditions of the Local Communities. Generally the
undermentioned columns will be created.



-108-
Annex 5.12
Page 5 of 7
a)   Editorial
b)   NFED Management Policy News
c)   Cartoons/Pictures
d)   News for the Reglons
e)  Games/PuzzleslProverbs
f)   Extracts from the National Dailies
g)   Profiles
I) New literates
ii) Facilitators (outstanding)
111) Supervisors (outstanding)
h)  Slogans on Functional Literacy
1) Letters to the Editor
1)   General Information on Literacy
k)   Development Activities
I)   Advertisements, etc.
2.  The New Times Corporation will supervise production printing and
distribution of all the newspapers In the 15 languages.
3.  The New Times Corporation will use Its distribution network to market
the newspapers
The 2nd party (NFED) shall:
3.   Provide actual printing and distribution cost.
4.   Co-ordinate language experts to undertake translation. They will
generally be drawn from the Bureau of Ghana Languages (BGL). Other
experts and the Ghana Institute of Linguistics Literacy and Bible
Translatlon (GILLBT) will also be engaged when the need arises.



-109 -
Annex 5.12
Page 6 of 7
5. Appoint consulting Editor from the New Times Corporation to
co-ordinate the editing and printing processes of the newspapers.
SIGNED THIS i?... DAY OFT.0.10.1 992
MR. R.J. METrLE-NUNOO  AND NAVAL CMDR. GEORRE HAGAN (RTD)
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR    MANAGING DIRECTOR
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIV. NW%M% CORPORATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION      w       CORPOPATjoN
IN THE PRESENCE OF
DR. (MRS) MARY GRANT              MR.               KYI
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIBLE           PNDC SECRE  V FOR
FOR EDUCATION                     INFORMAT
OFF E O' TH PNDC
P 0 E OX 1627
AC1 4



- 110 -                                   Annex 5.12
NEW TIMES CORPORATION Pe 7 of
TELEPHONESU:  S2218V-  Li?IES                                               P.O. BOX 2638
Lxt. 22                                                              ACCIRA
GHANA.
Our   ...- ....... .
Year Ref        .        .                                     .           w.~ .s.a5*]4_9..
T)he Oo-Ordinator               ESTIMATE
Non Formal Eduoation
I1inistry of Education
P.O. Box M.45                Job No._.__.             _ 
(Pleas. quote reference in al correspondence)
Dear SirIMadam,
Iu reply to your ecquiry we have pleasure in given our quotation as follows:
DESCRIPTION:
local Languages Newspaper 4 pages- Printed pages one and four
in two oolours and black on remaining pages and trimmed
to size  as specimen,   50%  oash dowm  muOt be pabd and
balanoe paid before delivery.
Cost of Transportation to all districts 050,000.00
Paper:  Reels   /Printo
Estd. M/C - H/C
TRIMMED SIZE: 17"x13" folded
QUANTITy:   50,000
PRICE-Printi.ng g .750.000.0Q                Unit  oOat   Q35e00
Cost of Traasportation to all districts 0509000.00
Thia Estimate is subject to the Terms and Conditions printed overleaf which shall form part of any contrct
aising out of this Estimate unless otherwise specifically cet out in writLng. We resrv the riht to amend the
qgo0uon should dte curnt costs upon which it is based alter or fte materials refered to nolonger be awilable.
We look forward to receiving your valued order and sisure you of our best atteation at all times.
Yours fslthfully
for ond on behalf of
THE NE      ES PrORP
Principal x tim\tor



Annex 5.13
Page 1 of 4
LITERACY SKILLS PROJECT
AGREEMENT, - GHANA BOOQK PUBLISHERS ASSOCIATION/NFVED-MOE
PARTICIPATION OF PUBLISHIERS IN THE PUBLICAT-ION
OF POST LIEgRACY MAT-ERIALS
This Agreement Is made between the Ghana Book Publishers Association
(GBPA) acting per Its President Mr. Eric Ofel on one part, and the Non-
Formal Education Division acting per Its National Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J.
Mettle-Nunoo on the other part.
_ t       _uC_ion
Currently the majority of Ghanaian publishers produce materials only In
the English language either for marketing to students In the formal
education system, or through a limited number of outlets in major cities.
Apart from bibles, hymn books, and prayer books, which are specifically
not covered by this protocol, there are virtually no printed materials
available in the local Ghanalan languages, despite the fact that many
hundreds of thousands of Ghanaians are only literate in these languages.
Strategy
Through a graduated subsidy scheme, and a range of other methods the
GBPA will encourage local publishers to produce and market a range of
reading materials in the 15 Ghanalan languages In which the literacy
programme Is taking place. In this way, not only is It expected that new
literates will develop a reading habit, but also that new sustainable
markets and outlets for local reading materials will be developed.
Selection of Publishers
All members of the GBPA are eligible to receive the subsidy towards
actual production costs of producing any type of materlal, in any of the
fifteen languages, :n any quantities. As much as possible however the
GBPA will use Its offices to encourage Its members to produce and
market materials In as many of the fifteen languages as possible.
Administration of Subsidy
The matrix outlining the subsidy levels to be provided each year for the
five different types of materials (Newspapers, Magazines, Books, Comics
and Games), Is an Integral part of this protocol and Is attached as Annex
1. The costs of production Include only the direct manufacturing costs of
a particular type of printed material. It Includes only the cost of raw



- 112 -              Annex 5.13
Page 2 of 4
materials (paper, Ink, etc) and the labour and other costs of production.
It does not Inicude editorial, design, authorship, Illustration and other
orlgination costs; and does not Include the costs of distributlon. For any
specific material the unit costs of production will be estimated jointly by
the GBPA and NFED. As soon as one publisher has produced a particular
type of matelal In a particular language, the first year's rate of subsidy In
that language and materlal will apply for any publiser. For example If a
publisher starts to produce books In Ewe on September 15, 1992, and
another publisher starts to produce books In Ewe in October 1994, he will
only be eligible for the third year's rate of subsidy.
OliatioLn of NEED
I)   NFED will monitor jointly with GiPA the production costs of any
materials to be subsidized through the programme, and will also from time
to time spot-check the quantities of materials being produced.
11)  It will provide GBPA with the subsidy within 15 days of It being due.
If It Is mutually agreed In some cases, the subsidy might be provided
In kind, lee. through the provislon of paper, or equipment, or other
Inputs, but usually It will be provided In cash.
11)  NFED will also provide GBPA with the costs of agreed programmes
designed to motivate and encourage its members to become
Involved In developing the markets, such as tralning, exhibitions,
and local market development tours.
lv)  NFED will arrange to make new literates aware of the materials
available through this programme.
Qbiigptions of GBPA
I)  The GBPA will use every available method to motivate Its
member publishers into participating In this programme,
Including training, exhibitions, local study tours, and the
sharing of members'experience.
11)  The GBPA will monitor jointly with NFED the productlon costs, and
quantities.
?II) It will contract with Its member pubilshers, and will pay them the
amounts outstanding. It will carry out any other agreed services.
lv)  It will produce a quarterly report on the general progress of the
progamme, especially relating to the development of markets.



- 113 -
Annex 5.13
Page 3 of 4
v)  GBPA will provide NFED with 10% of the quantity of each published
material produced through this programme free of charge.
Monitgring
Participating publishers will Inform the GBPA of the type of material It will
the producing, the production specificatlons, and the proposed quantities.
At any time either the GBPA or the NFED can monitor the production to
ensure that the specifications are being adhered to, and that the claimed
quantities are belng produced. At no time will there be any editorial
monitoring or control.
SIGNED THIS ............. DAY OAF_tIf,1992
MR. R.J. METrLE-NUNOO      AND      MR. ERIC OFEI
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR               PRESIDENT
NON-FORMAL EDUC. DIV.               GHANA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
C. 0O-c                          8  S
IN THE PRESENCE OF
DR. (MRS) MARY GRANT
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR EDUCATION
OLiEi E OF TUL P N DC
P. 0. BOX 1627
RA~R



Repubic ofGhana
Litera and Functional Skilis Priect
PRIVATE PUBLISHER'S MATRIX
POST LITERACY READING MATERIALS
PERCENTAGE SUBSIDY OF COSTS OF PRODUCTION TO BE
COVERED BY GOVERNMENT
NEWS PAPERS
K A G A Z I N E S
B OO K S                  B OO K 1 E T S                   C O Ic S
Y1   Y2  Y3   Y4    Y5         Y1   Y2    Y3  Y4    Y5  _   Y1   Y2   Y3  Y4  Y5
Akwapim Twi  80   60  40   20    10          70  55    40   20    10         70   60   45   30   10
Asante Twi   60   45  30   20    5    =  60  45    30   20    5             . 60   50   35  205
Buli          90   75  50   35    10         80  70    55  30    10          80   65   50   35   10
Dagaare       90   75  50   35    10   _  80   70    55   30    10   _80   65   50   35   10
Dagbani       90   75  45   35    10         80   70    55   30    10  _ 80   65   50   35   10
Danbge        70   60  30   20    10   -   60  45    30   20    10  _   60   50   35  20   5
Ewe           50   40  40   20    10         50  40    30   20    10         50   40   30   20  10
Fante         75   60  40   25    5          65  50    40   30    10        165   50   35   20   5
Ga            80   60  40   20    5   _    70  55    40   20    5  __  70   60   45   30 10
Conja         90  75  50   35    10  _   80  70    55  30    10   -  80   65   50   35   10
Gurune        90   75  50   35    10 _  80  70    55   30    10  _ 80   65   50   35   10
Kasem         90   75  50   35    10         80  70    55   30    10   _80   65   50   35   10
Kusaal        90  75  50   35    10   -   80  70    55   30    10   -  80   65   50   35 10                t 
Nzema         90   75  50   35    10         80  60    40   20    5          80   65   50   35  10 
Sissali       90   75   50   35    10 _   80  60    40   20    10            80   65   50   35   10
Source:  NFED and Ghana Publishers Association Agreement, 1991



115-
Annex 5.14
Page 1 of 3
LITErEACY rSKILLS. PROJECT
AGREEMENT-G9BCNFED.MOE
This Agreement Is made between the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC)
Acting per Its Dlrector-General G.M. Aryee on one part, and the Non-Formal
Education Division acting per Its National Co-ordinator, Mr. R.J. Mettle-Nunoo
on the other part.
Whereby
The parties agree to collaborate In the formulation and Implementation of the
Non-Formal Education Programme In Ghana In the following manner:
1.  I)  Provide at least 60% alr-tIme for functional literacy programmes
and educational broadcast on Apam FM Community Radio Station and
URA Radio Station In Bolgatanga and future regional FM Stations.
In addition, Radio I and 2 networks at the moment should allocate at
least one hour a day of air-time for functional literacy programmes;
ii)  provide general publicity and mobilizatlon for the programme in
the form of political mobilization and public motivation programmes on
both Radio and Televislon;
311) provide comprehensive news and Information about the
programme Including campaign jingles almed at enrolled learners and
at the general public;
iv)  provide direct teaching to literacy groups on the functional
content of the primers and classes via forum style discussion
programmes;
v)  provide support, training, Information and Identification
promotion programmes aimed at facilitators and supervisors;
vi)  advise on the engineering and equipment needs including
acquisition and Installation of same;
vil) provide expertise and manpower to maintain and repair
equipment;
viil) provide production manpower needs required for the



-116 -                   Annex 5.14
Page 2 of 3
programme;
lx)  the programmes of NFED will be broadcast In the 15 Identified
Ghanalan Languages for functlonal literacy work;
x)  the provision of air-time shall be free of charge;
xi)  at no time, either now or In the future, should GBC sell air-time
to the NFED, no matter the circumstance.
2.  The 2nd party (NFED) shall:
I)   Be responsible for the costs of equipment and manpower
training;
11)  provide eight (8) 5kw transmitters with an additlonal 8 of the
same specification for back up purposes;
1ii) re-equlp six (6) Regional G8C Radio Studios.
iv)  provide teaching materlals for radio broadcasts. The Senior
Radio Programme Officer will lialse with the staff of GBC In the
preparation of the materials. In his absence, the NFED Regional and
Dlstriet Radio Programme Co-ordinator shall act.
3.  For purposes of the implementatlon of the Non-Formal Education
Programme under this Agreement the parties further agree to create a bank
account Into which shall be paid all monies grants, aids, donations etc. for
the programme.
The said account shall be operated by the following as signatories:
The Ag. Chief Director   * Ministry of Information
The National Co-ordinator - Non-Formal Educatlon Dlv. (MOE)
The Director-General    - Ghana Broadcasting Corporation



- 117 -
Annex 5.14
Page 3 of 3
SIGNED THIS . DAY OF)  .... 199
MR. R.J. METTLE-NUN0O     AND      .           ARYEE
NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR               I        NERAL
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION DIVISION      GHANA BROADCASTINGCORP.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
IN THE PRESENCE OF
DR. MRS MARY GRANT                 MR.    0   QUAKYI
PNDC MEMBER RESPONSIBLE            PNDC SE;   RY FOR
FOR EDUCATION                     INFO ATION
oDfl E OF' T£I1 P N D C            PNOC SECRTARY
P. O. BOX 1621               MINISTRY OP INMRMATION
ACCRA                         P.0. Box M.41



Replubic of Ghana
Literacy and FunctionaL Skills Project
Financing Plan by Project CoUponents
(US$ Million)
IDA            UNICEF          Norway         Goverrnent        Total
*wmM      %    Amount    X    Amomt    X    Amnt    X    Anmt    X                Exch.
A0. Basic Literay Naterials        4.0   66.7       0.0    0.0      0.9   14.7       1.1   18.7      6.0   19.6      4.5
Al. Support                        4.0   83.7       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.8   16.3      4.7   15.4      4.2
A2. Post Literacy Materials        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.9  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.9    2.9      0.6
A3. Radio                          2.1   99.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    1.0       2.1    6.8      2.0
M4. Research ard Evaluation        0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      1.2  100.0      0.0    0.0       1.2    3.8      0.7
AS. District                       1.6   26.5       0.5    8.3      0.0    0.0      4.0   65.3       6.1   19.9      3.1
A6. Region                         0.3   30.4       0.0    5.6      0.0    0.0       0.5   64.0      0.8    2.7      0.4
AT.. National                      3.0   83.9       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.6   16.1      3.6   11.6      2.4
AS. Literacy House                 1.0   99.2       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.8      1.0    3.3      0.4
A9. Warehouse                      0.4   99.6       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.4      0.4    1.3      0.1
50. Materials Storage/Transp       0.2   90.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0   10.0       0.2    0.6      0.2
al. Customr Clearence              0.0   90.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0   10.0       0.0    0.1      0.0
92. Income Generation              0.1  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.1    0.3      0.0
93. Taxes and Duties               0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      2.8  100.0       2.8    9.2-    0.0
94. PPF Ref inancing               0.8  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.8    2.4      0.0
._.... _    .................... t............ ... ...._.. .. . ... . _.. ......,____.................
Total Disbursmnt                   17.4   56.5      0.6    1.8      2.9    9.6      9.9   32.1    30.7  100.0    18.6
. ............................ ............................................................. ..... .......__. .... ...... ... ___.... ...... ........ ... ..... ....__
0:
0.
t*iW



RepLblic of Ghnu
Literacy and Furctional Skitls Project
Suwmary Accoimt by Project Caoqonent
(Cedis Million)
Basic    sport   Post               Research                                                 Hateriat
Literwy  Facils/S  Literacy              and                                                      s      Cwtit   lIr
Materiel uperviso  Material           Evaluati                              Litercy Warhous Storagef Clearanc Generti
a        r        s       Radio      on    District  Region  Natioral Ntouse         e     Transp       e        n
I. INVESTIENT COT
RO, Civill Ilorks« (LCD)              0.0      0.0       0.0     43.5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    295.1    118.1        0.0      0.0       0.0
Al. Vdalete &nd apipnt
1. Ve les  (10                    419.6    613.3       0.0    6.7.4       3.5     75.5      23.5     41.2      17.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
2. eqwimnt (LCB)                  93.5      0.0      40.9      0.0       0.3     22.5       0.0      0.3       0.0      0.0      57.5      9.6       0.0
3. Vehictes                         0.0     88.6       0.0       0.0      4.9    410.8      58.0     49.9       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
4. furiture (LCD)                   0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      28.1      3.3      0.0      25.6      5.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
._ ._ .. .. _._ . ... .. . . . .. .. .. ... . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. ... ._ . . . .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . __ ... . .. . . . . _. .. . _...............................
Sub'total                           513.1    701.9      40.9    647.4       8.7    536.9      84.8     91.4      42.6      5.1      57.5      9.6       0.0
A2. Develeplnt Ispn;s               376.9      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       Q.0      0.0       0.0      0.0.    D.o.
A3. Print and other interint       1053.2      0.0    164.6       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   *.
84. Faltowahips                       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      14.9      0.0       0.0    171.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -
AS. Local Training                    0.0    842.3       0.0      0.6       5.1    165.0      15.0     15.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   'a
A6. Technical Assistane                                                                                                                                           -
1. TA Foreign                       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    183.1       0.0       0.0    516.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
2. TA Local                         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      28.9      0.0       0.0    229.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. United Nations Volunteers        0.0      0.0      27.5      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-total                             0.0      0.0      27.5      0.0    211.9       0.0       0.0    746.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
A7. Support.to Other Afgencies        0.0      0.0      75.2  .  0.0    180.1        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      40.3
AS. PPF    .                          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
A9. Taxes and Duties                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS             1943.3   1544.2    308.2    691.6    420.7    701.9        99.8   1024.9    337.8    123.2      57.5       9.6     40.3
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A0. Staff Salaries                    0.0      0.0       0.0      6.4       0.0    768.4    104.3    147.9       0.0       0.0      e.0       0.0      0.0
Al. ConsuiBbles                       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       4.8     '5.3       3.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
A2. Other operationa costs            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    474.8      61.7     30.8      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Totat REC'JRRENT COSTS                0.0      0.0       0.0      6.4       4.8  .1278.4    169.2    178.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               1943.3   1544.2    308.2    698.0    425.5   1980.4    269.0   1203.6    337.8    123.2         57.5       9.6     40.3
Physicat Contingencies          , 194.3    154.4      23.3     69.8      13.2    198.0      26.9  . 74.5       30.6     11.1      5.8       1.0      0.0
Price Contingencies               339.2    252.1      39.7     83.8      38.7    333.7      40.0    187.8      47.6     25.5      9.0       1.5      0.6  IV
Total PROJECT COSTS                2476.8   1950.7    371.2    851.6    477.4   2512.2    335.9   1465.9    416.0    159.7         72.3      12.0     40.9 o  1
Taxes                               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                 1834.4   1725.1    260.6    805.2    288.8   1285.7    175.2    979.0    153.5         45.3     64.6      10.8      8.3  01.
,_..  fe.by_..... .. .. .................. ._.... ........_...... ....._ .. .... .._    . . _................._____ _......._...... ............... . .. . ... . . _ _ _ _ _ __ .._..... .. ._._. ..
*Not f inanced by IDA.



Rejbtic of Ghana
Literacy NW Fuctionat Skilts Project
Sry Accauu by Project Cpm1en:
(Cedis Million)
Physicat        Price
Taxes     PPm                  Contingencies    Contirgencies
ad   Refir                 -------------------I-----------
Duties     ing      Total       2    ASotst      2  Afoant
1. INVEST COSTS
............. ......
AO. CiviL  rks (LCS)                 0.0      0.0    456.7       9.0     41.2   15.4      70.2
Al. Vehicles ad eqisip
1. Eqaipent (iC8I                  0.0      0.0   1841.2      10.0    184.1   14.9    274.3
2. Equimt (LCS)                    0.0      0.0    224.7      10.0     22.5   15.4      34.7
3. Vehicles                        0.0      0.0    612.2      10.0     61.2   15.7     96.2
4. Vtxnitwt (LCS                   0.0      0.0     62.1      10.0      6.2   10.9       6.8
............................................................. ..........
Sul.oXtat                            0.0      0.0   2740.0      10.0    274.0   15      412.0
A2. Development 1qxts                0.0      0.0    376.9      10.0     37.7   18.      68.1
A3. Print ad other interial          0.0      0.0   1217.8      10.0    121.8   17.5    212.7
A4. fetlaoship                       0.0      0.0    186.5       5.0      9.3   14.3      26.6
AS. tocal Training                   0.0      0.0   1043.4      10.0    134.3   15.1    157.0
Af. Tedmicat Assistance
1. TA Foreign                      0.0      0.0    699.9      5.0      35.0   14.7    102.8
2. TA Local                        0.0      0.0    258.5       5.0     12.9   17.4     45.0
3. United Matfau Votunteers        0.0      0.0     27.5      10.0      2.7   15.4      4.2
Sub-totat                            0.0      0.0    985.8      5.1      50.7   15.4    152.1                                                              °
*7. Support to Other Agecies         0.0      0.0    295.5      0.0       0.0    1.3      4.0
A8. PPF                              0.0    300.9    300.9      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
A9. Taxes ad Duties               1156.3      0.0   1156.3       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total INVESINEN COSTS             1156.3    300.9   8760.0      7.3    639.1   12.6   1102.7
11. RECUIENT COSTS
...................
A0. Staff Salaries                   0.0      0.0   1027.0      10.0    102.7   19.3    197.9
Al. Conubtles                        0.0      0.0     43.3      10.0      4.3   18.3      7.9
*2. Oter aperatiorat csts *          0.0      0.0    567.2      10.0     56.7   16.0     90.8
Total RECRRENT COSTS                 0.0      0.0   1637.6      10.0    163.8   18.1    296.6
Total 81SELINE COSTS              1156.3    300.9  10397.6      7.7    802.8   13.5   1399.4
Physical Contingemies              0.0      0.0    802.8
Price Contingemcies                0.0      0.0   1399.4      8.5    118.7
Totat PROJECT COSTS               1156.3    300.9  12599.8      7.3    921.5   11.1   1399.4
Taxes                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Foreign ExdanZe                    0.0      0.0   7636.4      8.4    641.8
--------- Not ---f--nanced-- by  ----_'-' '''''' ----------'--'------'-'' ''-' ' '' '   - - --
*Not financed by ID)A.



- 121                                           Annex 5.16
Republtic of Ghana                                    Page 1 of 2
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
NFED - TOTAI. RECURRENT BUDGET ESTIMATES
ESTIMATES
SUB                 SUB                                          ACCOUNT         1991
HEAD      HEAD      ITEM       ITEM               PROGRAMME                NUMBER         (Cedis)
.......     .........  .........-  ......     ....................     .........     ..............
140       03                          NON-FORMAL EDUCATION
I               PERSONAL ENOLUMENTS
1     ESTABLISHED POSTS                                        0.00
2     CCN & NON-EST POST                                       0.00
3     MONTHLY PAID & CASUAL LAO                                0.00
4     MISC. ALLOWANCE                                          0.00
5     HOUSING ALLOWANCE                                        0.00
6     LEAVE ALLOWANCE                                          0.00
7     TRANSPORT ALLOWANCE                                      0.00
8     LUNCH ALLOWANCE                                          0.00
9     VEHICLE MISC ALLOWANCE                                   0.00
......... ...........................................................................................
I         ITOTAL PERSONAL ENOLUMENTS        I            1100,000,000.00
~~~~~~~~............... ..........................                              ...........
2               TRAVELLING & TRANSPORT EXP
1     TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE                            3,000,000.00
2     RUNNING COST (OFF. VEHICLES)                    4,000,000.00
3     MAINT. OFFICIAL VEHICLES                         3,000,000.00
4     OTHER T & T EXPENDITURE                         2,000,000.00
..  v.........................................................................................................................................................
I lITOTAL T & T EXPENDITURE                             1 12,000,000.00
3               GENERAL EXPENDITURE
1     ELECTRICITY CHARGES                                      0.00
2     WATER CHARGES                                            0.00
3     POSTAL CHARGES                                           0.00
4     TELEPHONE & TELECOM CHARGES                              0.00
5     CLEANING, CLOTHING MATERIALS
SANITATION & OFFICE FACILITIES                  3,000,000.00
6     STATIONERY                                      4,000,000.00
7     PRINTING & PUBLICATION                         20,000,000.00
a     RENT (OFFICE EGUIPMENT)                         5,000,000.00
9     DEPARTMENTAL TRAINING                          58,000,000.00
10     LIBRARY                                         1,000,000.00
11     ACCOMMODATION                                   2,000,000.00
12     INSURANCE (BANK CHARGES)                        1,000,000.00
13     REFUND OF MEDICAL EXPENSES                      2,000,000.00
14     FUEL, LIGHT & WATER                             1,000,000.00
......... ................. ................. ..................................... .. . . . . ........ ..........  
I   I   I  ITOTAL GENERAL EXPENDITURE       |           | 97,000,000.00
.........................................................................................
4               MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS & RENEWAL
1     ROADS & GROUWNDS                                         0.00
2     MINOR REPAIRS OF RES. BUILDING                           0.00
3     MINOR REPAIRS OF OFF. BUILDING                  11,000,000.00
4     MINOR REPAIRS OF HOSP/CLINICS                            0.00
5     MINOR REPAIRS OF SCNS. & COLS.                           0.00
6     MINOR REPAIRS OF HOUWSES & FARM                          0.00
7     MAINT. OF FURNITURE & FIXTURES                           0.00
8     MAINT. OF EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY                           0.00
& PLANT
I   I   I  ITOTAL MAINT., REPAIRS & RENEWALSI            I 11,000,000.00
.............................................................................................



- 122 -                                                                      Annex 5.16
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATES
SUB                              SUB                                                                     ACCOUNT                   1991
HEAD            HEAD              ITEM            ITEM                            PROGRAMME                               NUMBER                  (Cedis)
......... ....... ......... .... ... -.. .................... ............ ,........... ...............
5                         SUPPLIES & STORES                                       146-035-000
1        SCHOOLS TEXTBOOKS                                       146-035-001                          0.00
2         CHENS & CONSUMMABLES FOR SCH LAB 146-035-002                                                0.00
3         LAB INSTRUMENTS & STORES                               146-035-003                          0.00
4         OTHER TEACHING/LEARNING MATS                           146-035-004 300,000,000.00
5         SPORTS & RECREAtIONAL MATS                             146-035-005                          0.00
6         FEEDING                                                146-035-006                          0.00
......... ......... ......... ........ ........ "^........... ...............................
I               I                I                ITOTAL SUPPLIES AND STORES                             |                    130°0,000000.00
~~~~...........................................................................
.................................................. ................................... ..................................
I               I                I                ITOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE                            I                   1520,000.000.00
.........*.. ........................ .......................................................................... ...... ........... 
I                I               I                ISUBVENTION                                            |                    1175,000,000.00
~~~~~....................... .....................                                                                     ................. P.........
l               l                l                |                 GRAND TOTAL                                               1 I695,000,000.00
Source: Ministry of Education, 1990.



- 123 -
Literacy and Functioinal Ski-lls Projiect
NFED - TOTAL RECURRENT FUNDS
1991
Amou                                                 Sourc
(¢175 million subvention                             Government of Ghana
C520 million regular budget                          Govemment of Ghana
C80 million                                          Switzerland
$163,000                                             UNICEF
$50,000                                              CODE
LUK 400,000                                          British ODA
Source: NFED, 1991



RerpubIic of Ghana
Litea  and Functional Skills Project
EDUCATIONAL MATERLALS PROPOSED PROCUREMENT TIMETABLE
Acflivty        N4o of weeksWsfeb
minI     max       2131341  g1  7161 9tU               1311411516 -  1tltl1  17 1 1912021 2223
2 T-ndering         a~1       to
Activity        No of wec                                                                                -
hEn  max   21 2B29 30 st 12  3 34 Is 361 IT 38 39 401 41 42 431 PA6 451 46 471 481 491So
I PrC-eiCider                 MD __                                                               _  _- 6Z  _2  2_
2 ITanderingat
3 I                                           .Ival.tatioi  4                      _
4lVost.tender                
SDclivcr1I
6 Postc  mt C         |4lU
'rotals  33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS PROPOSED PROCUREMENT TIMETABLE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.   _S ID
ActivityDspinc
1I01 Preotender         Obtaia lsts frmi end-wuer
1.02 PTre-tender        Analyalpf requirements
1.03 Prc-tender         Group lists of iten.
L.04 Pre-tender         Prepure specificadons
t OS Prc-tcnder         Queries on specifications
1.06 Pre-tender         Prepare bidding decuments
1.07 Pre-tender         Approval of specifications
1.08 Pre-tender         Approval of bidding documents
2.09 Prc-tcnder         Advi;g
1l0 Pre-tender          Notify IDA menmberdelegations
1.11 Pre-tender         P=tkg of documents
201 Tcnderisig           ssue of documcents
202 Tendering           Answer queries an documents
2.i3 Tenderin               
3.1iL Evaluation        Evaluation of bids
3.02 Evaluadon          Review evaluadon re   t
4.01 P[ot-tcnder         Issue contract.
5.01 Dclivery           Moio   expedte delivety
5.0i Delivery           Receive and check invoices
S5.0  Delivery          Prepare withdrawal applications
5.04 Delivery           Make   m_, ts
6.01 Posm2cornract      Review istalt                                                                           > ,; .
6.02 Post-conuract      Proccss Insurance claims                            "                                 D
0*
CA =Crown Agents
GSC = Ghana Supply Commission
Source: NFED, 1991
1~~~.    



pNbotGhwt                       -  126 -
Lkrc sad VmcoF. Skillb Prol.
Annex 6.2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
CUSS Million Equivalent)
................................................. ............................................................................. ...........................
Pre-                                            Totat
Project Element                Project    FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96   Payments     Remarks
Credit Timing
.............
Signing/Effect./CLosing                ** q                                 **
Works
Literacy House                          0.06     0.50     0.30                        0.86       LCB
xxx    MMVxxxVMMMMiflEMM
Warehouse                                        0.10     0.20     0.10               0.40        LCB
Radio Facilities                                          0.10      0.04              0.14        LCB
Goods
Class Materials                                  0.70     0.50     0.50      0.20     1.90      1CB/LCB
XXXXXXXKXVX XXXXxxxx XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Incentives & Rewards                             0.40     0.60     1.30               2.30       ICB
xxxx     xxxx xxxxxx
Radio Equipnent                                  0.90     1.00                        1.90        ICa
xxxxxxx  xxx
Vehicles                                         0.70     0.50     0.80               2.00        ICB
xxxxxXXXX xxxxxx XxXx
Other Inported Equipment                         0.20     0.10      0.20     0.10     0.60        ICB
.txxxxxxxx xxxxxx  xxxx     xxxx
Furniture                                        0.10     0.10                        0.20       LCB
xxxx    xxxxx
Printing of Instructional
Haterials                                      0.50     0.60     0.60      0.50     2.20     ICB/LCB
xXxxxxxxx xxxxxx  xxxx      xxxx
Other Instructional Materials                    0.30     0.30     0.30      0.10     1.00      lCD/LCB
Xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx       xxxx
Post Literacy Materitals                         0.10     0.20     0.20      0.10     0.60        LCD
XXXXXXXXX  X        XXX  XXX  XXXX
Development Inputs                               0.30     0.40      0.40              1.10      ICB/LCD
xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx NxNx
Services
Foreign Consultants                              0.70     0.80     0.70               2.20      Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Local Consultents                                0.30     0.30     0.30               0.90      Other
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Fellowships                                      0.20     0.20     0.10               0.50      Other
xx xxxxx Nxxxxxxxxx
Local Training                                   1.30     1.10     0.80               3.20      Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
Incremental Costs
.................
Staff Salaries                                   0.90     1.00      1.00     0.30     3.20      Other
XXXXKXXXKXJOXXXKXXXXKXXXJCXKXX
Operating Costs                                  0.70     0.50      0.50     0.20     1.90       Other
XXXXKXXUXRXXXXXKXIOIXRXXxJxxxx
Mlscellteneous
.............
PPF                                              0.80                                 0.80      Other
xxxx
Taxes and Duties                                 1.05     0.90      1.05              3.00      Other
X X X KXXX XXXX XXX X XX XX XXXXX XXXX
.......................................... ..............................................................
TOTAL                         0.06    10.75     9.70     8.89      1.50    30.90
IDA-financed                  (0.06)   (4.84)    (5.7)    (5.8)   (1.00)   (17.4)
........................................................................................................



- 127 -
Annex 6.3
Reipublic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Proiect
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year       Projected Disbursements         Proportion Disbursed
and Semester            (in USS millions)                    1%)
Semester    Cumulative        Semester   Cumulative
1993      1               1.5          1.5               8.6         8.6
2              3.4           4.9             19.5         28.2
1994      1               2.9          7.8              16.7        44.8
2              2.8          10.6             16.0         60.1
1995      1               3.0         13.6              17.2         78.1
2              2.8          16.4              16.1        94.3
1996      1               1.0         17.4               5.7       100.0



- 128 -
Ainnex 6.4
Page 1 of 2
LRenblic of Ghana
Literacy and--Functional Skills Project
SUPERVISION PLRN
1.    Bank Sunervision Inout into Key Agtivities.  The staff input in the
table below is in addition to regular supervsion needs for the reivew of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for
this project to require three staff weeks per year during the first two
years, and two staff weeks during the third year).
2.    Borrowerls Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Semi-annual progress reports will be submitted to IDA by NFED.
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the
Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Division within the
Ministry of Education.
(c) The NFED Program Manager will be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for providing
information required by missions.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally
be chaired by the National Coordinator for Non-Formal Education.



- 129 -
Annex 6.4
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate                               Expected Skill           Staff Input
Dates             Activity              Requiremento               (SW)
Summer/Fall       Review Procurement       Task Manager*                0.5
'92            Documents
November '92      Supervision mission      Task Manager                1
Education Specialist       2
Research Specialist        2
Inat'l Development         2
Specialist
December '92      Review Procurement       Task Manager                0.5
Documents
May '93           Supervision Mission      Task Manager                1.5
Education Specialist       2
Research Specialist        2
Inat'l Development         2
Specialist
June '93          Review Procurement       Task Manager                0.5
Documents
TOTAL FY93      15.0
December '93      Mid-Term Review          Task Manager                1
Education Specialist       2
Research Specialist        2
Inst'l Development         2
Specialist
February '94      Review Procurement       Task Manager                0.5
Documents
May '94           Supervision Mission       Task Manager               1
Education Specialist       1.5
Research Specialist        1.5
Post Literacy Specialist  1.5
TOTAL FY94     13.0
December '94      Supervision mission      Task Manager                1.5
Education Specialist       1.5
Post Literacy Specialist  1.5
May '95            Final Supervision       Task Manager                1.5
Mission and Project      Education Specialist       1.5
Completion Report (PCR) Post Literacy Specialist  1.5
TOTAL PY95      9.0
* The Task Manager is resident in Ghana.



Republic of Ghana
Literacy and Functional Skills Project
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
...... ......... .... ...... ......... ................ *................... ..... ........ ... .... ..... ...... .... ...... .......... .................. ...................... ....... .......... ............. .
ITEM                          MID-TERM REVIEu TARGET                               PROJECT COHPLETION TARGET
Input Indicators:
._...._..........
1. No. of Facilitators
Given Inititt Training                        12,720                                               17,145
2. go. of facititators Given
Refresher Training                            12,720                                               17,145
3. No. of Facilitators Given
2nd Refresher Training                         3,600                                                6,655
4. No. of Facilitators Given
Post Literacy Training                           200                                                  6C0 0
5. No. of Facilitators Given Post
Literacy Refresh!r Training                      200                                                  600
6. No. of Supervisors Given
Initial Training                                 870                                                1.126
7. No. of Supervisors Given
1st Refresher Training                           870                                                1,126
8. No, of Supervisors Given
Supervised Supervision                           870                                                  870
9. No. of Supervisors Given 2nd
Refresher Training                               580                                                  109
10. Appropriate Fellowships
Awarded and Used                                   7                                                   10
11. Appropriate Short Course
Training Awarded anq Used                         10                                                   15
>dD
Process Indicators:
............ _ _.                                                                         w                                                                            (D
1. Learner Retention Rates                  luprovement sirce previous semi-amnmal               improvement since mid-term  review                                  X
progress report
2. Facilitator Retention Rates              lnpfovement since previous semi-anmuat               improvement since mid-term reviwe                                 *t
progress report



Process Indicators (cant.):
.__.............___....
3. Supervisor Retention Rates              tlprovement since previous semi-annual                improvement since mid-term review
progress report
4. Government's Contribution to             Determination of timely monthly payments             Determination of timely monthly payments
Project Account
Output Indicators:
...... .......... _
1. Literacy/Numeracy Acquisition            Actions taken to improve the program if the          Improvement since mid-temn review
absolute figures (as measured by tests
administered by supervisors at the end of
the first year) were not satisfactory
2. Community Improvement                    Improvement since previous semi-annual               Improvement since mid-term review
progress report (measured by no. of trees                                                                               I
planted, vegetable gardens created, etc.)
3. Research Program                         Studies completed in terms of their quality          Continued undertaking of studies relevant
and application to on-going programs                 to program quality
4. Utility of Radio                         tnerease in listening audience from base-            Increase in listening audience from level
line level established in November/                  at mid-term review
Decewber 1991
5. Income Generating Activities             Cash advances awarded to 26 titeracy groups          Cash advances awarded to 76 Literacy groups
6. Effective Demand for Reading             Sales of private publishers                          Increase in sales of private publishers
Hateriats                                                                                     since mid-term review
e >
0 P
(D MD
0 .
H~Ul



132 -
ReogubJc of Ghana
Literacv and Fgnctional Skills Project
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.    WORLD BANK DOCUMENTS
1.    Ghaa:s Basin Education for Self-lmslovment and Rural DevAlooment.
March 22, 1989.  Africa Country Department IV, Population and
Human Resources Division (Report No. 7593-GH).
II.   CONSULTANT'S REPORTS
1.   Non-Formal E.ducation in Ghana:  Resot of a Cnonultancy to
Strengthen  Manacement  and  Oroanigation,  John  Harrison  and
Christopher Joubert (British Overseas Development Agency,
December 1991).
2.    admistration and Maaqement. Ghana Literacy Skills Proiect
Asraisal, Chukiat Leesuwan (July 1991).
3.    Publishina and Printing. Ghana Literacy Skilla Protect Apsraisal,
Peter Medcalf (July 1991).
4.    Resort on the DevelogMent of F Radio, Martin Allard (July 1991).
5.    Memo of Consultants on Pssearch and Evaluation, Anne Welle-Strand
and Arild Tjeldvoll (July 1991).
6.    Momen  iLn  Develooment  Consultancy._ Non-Formal  Education
Division/Ministrv of Education. Ghana, Seema Agarwal (British
Overseas Development Agency, March 1991).
_ST. GHANAIAN GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS
1.    Mas  Literacy and Socigal change Programme 1MASSLIPu for Ghana,
Non-Formal Education Division/Ghana Ministry of Education
(November 1989).
IV.   PROJECT DOCUMENTS
1.    Costina ofjNon-Formal Education ProarAmmes 1991-2000, Non-Formal
Education Division/Ghana Ministry of Education (December 1991).
2.    District Level Projections fLra
t9i5   (Planning,   Budgeting,   Monitoring   and   Evaluation
Divioion/Ghana Ministry of Education, Nov. 1, 1991).
3.    getting of _istrict Level Targets for National Literaky Proarame
1991-2000, H.N. Pandit, K.C. Nautiyal, and G. Gome (Planning,
BudgetLng, Monitoring and Evaluation Division/Ghana Ministry of
Education, June 1991).
4.    Status Reyort: Non-Formal Education Division/Ghana Ministrv of
&ducation, May 1991.
5.    The Radio Component. ODA/World Bank Pro1ect Prososal, National
Functional Literacy Programme (NFED/MOE, 1991).
6.                nto  g%A
6.    TheGovernmet ofG  _n.Prject_ Identification ProRosal. T_he
Exoansio,n of Functlonal Literacy Camsaigns Nationwide 1991-1.996,
Submitted by the Ministry of Education to the World Bank, January
1991.



IBRD 23607
BURKINA FASOO
GHANA
CtuhXI~o   G  U200 S                                          LITERACY AND
:i   k   \r35000,tN X              FUNCTIONAL SKILLS
UPPER'  ,                 B                                                                  PROJECT
26940--- Gin           y\                    NOI                                      104 7  NUMBER OF CLASSES
70   WAJts Rdcago   f   NORTHERNI  s - - F02000                      277 74 NUMBER OF FNROELME TS
7047  PR ARYROADS
-     |*°9 SECONDARY ROADS
- - - - TERTIARY ROADS
PRAIWAYS
C70t h.".e  j                   J     H       <      n6XChombulgz                     zf         s    RiGION HEADQUARTERS
\NATIONAL CAPITAL          o.
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
c6TE   \\>                     ¢        J                                             F\
D'IVOIRE                                                                                            h  bn   
rgSo,mpo__S_,,  {   ~BRONG-AHA O                                      lt  stf  
241 g  8   h6i°"  R  / +0 a                                      °  10  20  30  t° iO 50 O.ES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn r~' b  y >ir H  
\ \ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'d   I,    4rIhe lonvSI.'    folr  od r
- _ _It, b,rho   ,;_   s--CAPE  oANTI  EASTERNiRo   of Tho World Bor,:
blomo \ >, R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cnd ihb  bOond2r.S3 ihown                                              20
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I thI mupKND                           RIp uCI Imp'7.ns  on thU e
06  37445 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aS fThWOrl kGrOo
v  ;                                                             g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIOOlueoy Icrio,IY or0r 
.                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nRIoqrr.,, 0 0rcce'toersC
loch bor or,IorR
3-  P*                                                                             P o 0
17654                -68                                                  22750                  TheU I .    1          r      __
to, to conso:mntr oftoads'sSD0



