Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2349 GH
             (Literacy and Functional Skills Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 22, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2349 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "NFED" means the Non-Formal Education Division in the
Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (b)   "NBSSI" means the National Bureau for Small-Scale
Industries;
      (c)   "Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 23, 1991 and
October 4, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Page  3
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 2002 and ending October 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on October 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank a literacy
project account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, deposit into said account
promptly before each quarter starting three months after the date of
this Agreement, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the
Project as set forth in the Project's work program and budget for
the next quarter.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. In order to improve the impact and implementa-
tion of the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall carry
out, not later than December 31, 1993 a mid-term review evaluating,
inter alia: (a) the effectiveness of the research and evaluation
system under the Project; (b) the progress achieved towards reaching
the intended target groups; (c) the appropriateness of the number of
local languages chosen for the literacy campaign; (d) the effects of
the rewards systems; and (e) the implementation of the training
programs.
      Section 3.05. In implementing the rewards system for faci-
litators and supervisors, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
July 31, 1992, detailed action plans setting forth the procedures
and criteria for presenting the awards, such action plans to be
acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   thereafter carry out such rewards system in accordance
with said action plans.
      Section 3.06. In implementing the credit facility under Part
C.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
July 31, 1992, the agreement between NFED and NBSSI acceptable to
the Association concerning the management of this facility by NBSSI;
and
      (b)   thereafter, commence the implementation of the credit
facility in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
Page  5
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has deposited an initial amount in Cedis
equivalent to $300,000 in the literacy project account referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has put into effect an institutional
supervision program under Part A of the Project acceptable to the
Association and at least 60% of the supervisors have received an
initial three-week training course;
      (c)   the Borrower has started the first three-week training
program for facilitators acceptable to the Association;
      (d)   at least one issue of newspapers in each of the 15 local
languages have been produced and distributed in adequate numbers at
literacy class sites and reading centers;
      (e)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a report
on the achievements and problems faced during the first large-scale
implementation of the literacy program; and
      (f)   the Borrower has recruited consultants for research and
evaluation, and administration and management in accordance with
Page  6
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Joseph L.S. Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               930,000         100%
(2)   Equipment,              4,380,000         100% of foreign
      vehicles,                                 expenditures
      teaching                                  and 90% of local
      materials and                             expenditures
      furniture
(3)   Radio trans-            1,360,000         100% of foreign
      missions and                              expenditures and
      studio equipment                          90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Printed materials       1,570,000         70%
(5)   Goods and services        100,000         100%
      under Part C.6 of
      the Project
(6)   Consultants'            1,360,000         100%
      services
(7)   Local training          1,290,000         70%
(8)   Overseas training         220,000         100%
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(9)   Refunding of            540,000           Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(10)  Unallocated             650,000
                            _________
            TOTAL          12,400,000
                           ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expen-
ditures under Category (3) unless the Borrower has furnished to the
Association a report satisfactory to the Association showing that
local FM radio is an effective and efficient medium for fostering
the literacy campaign and its related self- and community-develop-
ment activities.
Page  8
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of its functional literacy program designed to
improve the literacy level and the quality of life of the poorest
segment of the population through associated community development
and income generation activities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A      Institutional Support to NFED
1.    Strengthening of NFED's capability to manage the nation-wide
literacy program.
2.    In-service training for NFED staff as well as overseas study
tours and training scholarships.
3.    Construction of a central office for NFED and a warehouse for
the storage of program-related goods and materials.
4.    Acquisition of furniture, office equipment and vehicles for
NFED's headquarters, regional and district offices.
Part B:     Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    Operation of NFED's special research unit, including training
of NFED staff in research methodology.
2.    Development and implementation of a program of external
research and evaluation.
3.    Research and evaluation activities in selected "research
districts" to test new ideas for incorporation in the overall
literacy program.
4.    Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for research and
evaluation activities.
Part C:    Teaching and Learning Facilities
1.    Acquisition and distribution of basic manuals and teaching
materials for facilitators.
2.    Furnishing of classrooms with lighting systems and blackboards
and provisions of chalks and other teaching materials.
3.    Basic and refresher training for facilitators.
4.    Operation of a rewards system for facilitators, including the
acquisition of goods to be presented as rewards.
5.    Acquisition and distribution of literacy kits for all learners
as well as special development inputs related to the specific
lessons.
6.    Establishment and operation, on a pilot basis, of a credit
facility to provide small credits to learning groups for income
generation activities.
Part D:     Supervision System
Page  9
1.    Establishment of a supervision system only utilizing staff
from the National Service Secretariat and the Ghana National
Association of Teachers.
2.    Acquisition and distribution of kits and manuals for supervi-
sors.
3.    Training of supervisors.
4.    Operation of a rewards system for supervisors, including the
acquisition of goods to be presented as rewards.
Part E:     Reading Materials in Local Languages
1.    Publication and distribution of national newspapers in local
languages in which literacy is being taught.
2.    Development and production of reading materials and books, and
newsletters in those local languages, including the acquisition of
silk screen presses.
Part F:     Post-literacy Classes
      Development and implementation, on a pilot basis, of post-
literacy courses in one local language.
Part G:     Radio Studio and Transmission Facilities
      Construction and equipping of two radio transmission and
related studio facilities.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contract for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspections by
third party inspection firms.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract and the printing of reading
Page  10
materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,050,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   The printing of newspapers, books and other reading materials
in local languages, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $350,000, shall be carried out on the basis of
negotiated contracts acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
Page  12
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
