D_.uumt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Riput No 12325
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TuRKEY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2439-TU)
SEPTDIBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12325
Type: PCR
Infrastructure and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This dooouent has a restricted dibutIon and may be used by repiens ody in dte perfornmnc of
thdir official dudes Its contnts may not otberwise be dilosed witdkout Wodd Dbnk audoizatin.



EXCHANGRRA
Currency Unit: Turkish Lira (TI)
At Appraisal (12/83)z TI 320 * US$S1.0
At completion (6/92): TI 7280 * US$1.0
AB13REVIASIQlE
AADT        Annual Average Daily Traffic
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
HDM         Highway Design and Maintenance Model (an IBRD computer
program)
ICa         International Competitive Bidding
PIARC       Permanent International Association of Road Congresses
KGM         General Directorate of Highways
?4PWS       Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
NTMP        National Transport Master Plan
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
TETEK       Trans-Turkey Highway
VOC         Vehicle operating cost
FISCAL YEAR OF BORMOWER
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORD BANK
W8dhpon D.G. 2043
U.SA
Office of Dicltor-O U1w?
OSIaltous Rv3utioa
September 17, 1993
lE3ZIBDUI TO T1E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Turkey
Second Eixhwav Proiect (Loan 2439-TU)
Attached Is the "Project Completion Report on Turkey - Second Highway
Project (Loan 2439-TU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
Part II contains the Borrower's comments. The L-an (US$186.4 million of June
1984) alas to support Implementation of the 1985-1988 investment program
encompassed in the Government's National Transport Master Plan. Specifically,
loan proceeds would finance state highway rehabilitation; supply of road
maintenance equipmentI improvements in planning and managing road rehabilitation
and equipment pools ; staff training; and road safety improvements. The Loan was
closed, with a year's delay, in June 1992, and has been fully disbursed.
All project components yere successfully implemented: highways were
upgraded; better contracting procedures and quality control standards were
introduced; modern equipment for mechanized maintenance was procured; old
machinery was ritten off; extensive staff training was undertakent and safety
measures were put in place to reduce highway traffic hazards. The PCR gives a
comprehensive account of the project's inception, preparation and implementation,
and emphasizes the good working relationship between the Borrower and the Bank
despite persisting disagreements both on procurement practices and the most
appropriate use of technical assistance.  Overall, the project is rated as
satisfactory, its sustainability as likely and its institutional Impact as
substantial.
OED plans to audit this project upon completion of the currently
ongoing Third Highway Project.
This docuwent has a restricted distribution rd amy be used by recfplents only in the perfonunce of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wfthout World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
RUPULIC OP Zupnnr
ELOAN 2439-?U)
Table 2f contents
pimface ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 2It2
DiFALUTION SUMMARY                                                          L                              .*........*** ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECT?VE                                 1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Project bjectives and DesCrLption  . . . . . . . . . ...... .    2
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   2
Project Description .. to.n. ..       ......................    2
Project Design and Organiation ...  ....           ....... .   2
Project Implementation  . ....................  .    4
Loan lffectiveness and start up . . . . .  .  ..............    4
Implementation Schedule and Procurement . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Squipment procuremont . .     .......... ..........    5
Management of Civl Worlcs . . ..........   .........           5
The Pavement Design Experiment  . . . . . . ....... .           6
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . * ..   0... . ..   . . . . . . .  .    6
Disbursements       . . . . . . . . . . .       . .  .   .  .    6
Loan Allocation . . . . . . . . . . . ..    . * 9    .          7
Training  . * 9. 9. 9     .. . .. . . . . . . .    . . .... .   7
Project Results . . . .         ..   . . . . . .  * 9 9  *       .*..   7
Project Objectives  . ..............                    .. . ...    7
Economic Results  . . . . . . . . . .  . * .   . .. . . . . . ..    7
Project Sustainability              ......................            9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Borrower'  Performance9        . . . . . . . . . . . . . *  .        10
Bank-Borrower/Relationshlp  .........................   11
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . .. .....                      11
PART 11:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM TEE BORROWER'8 PERPECTIVS  .. . . . . .   .  12
Project Design and Organization ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . 9213
Maintenance and Road Safety . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  14
Equipment Supply Purchaaes  . . . . . . . . . .*. . . . .  . . .  . .  19
lxperimental Road Sections  . .....          ...................  23
Training and Fellowships  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .  . . .    26
Civil Works Contracts . . . ......... .  .  .  .  .  . . .   .    34
Map   .                                       , ..  .  .  .  ...9..* .  .  _  3
Th document hs a ettced distbutio an may be used by cIent on* in the perfa"oma
of theIr oficia dutkes Its contents may no othewise be disdoesd without Worl lank sautorIaton



(Table of Contents Contd)
PARTM Ils  STATISTICAL NPoRNATZON  ...................   37
1.   Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . .....              37
2.   Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
3.   Loan Disbursements . . . . . .. * . *.                       39
4.   Project Implementation  . . . . . .. .............41
5.   Project Costs and Ficng  . . . . . . . ...42
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
Projeft Flnan¢ing .......... . . . . . . . . .         43
6.   Economic Benefits . . . .  . . .. ..............   44
7.   Status of Covtenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
8.   Use of IRD Resources.. . ... *    . * *           *          46
Missions  . . a . . . . . . . . . . .                  46
Staff  Input  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47
9.   Civil Works Contracts Costs . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . 48
ANNXES
Annex As Analysis of Contract Delays . . . . . . . . .  49



±~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tOAN 2439-YTUi
CT~JQ P2032C2R
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highway
Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2439-TU in the mount of US$186.4 million
was approved on June 7, 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1992, one year
behind schadule. Project implementation covered all the components included
at Appraisal, with the exception of a consulting assignment, and three civil
works contracts not comploted by loan closure which have been carried over to
the follow-on project. There was a change made to the Loan Agreement to
separate bitumen from the civil works contracts and procure it separately in
bulk. No cancellations were made and the loan was fully disbursed on
September 24, 1992; 98.6 percent of the Loan had been disbursed by the
original Closing Date.
The PCR was prepared by the EHENA Technical Department Infrastructure
Division on behalf of the Infrastructure and Environment Operations Division
of the Europe and Central Asia Department 1, (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and 1II) and the Borrower (Part I).
Preparation of the PCR began during a final supervision mission in
October 1992, and is based on the SAR, Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
aide memoires, ECA files and the records of Xarayolari Genel Mudurlugu (KGO),
or General Directorate of Highways, the Borrower's executing agency.



ICOP TURKEY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJEC
ILORN 2439-TUb
EVAUATONSUMMARY
1.     2biRK2tlY35
1.01    The objective of the project was to support Government's National
Transport Master Plan, through assistance with implementation of the 1985-88
investment programme. The project consisted of:
O     the rehabilitation of 561 km of state highwayt
o     the supply of road maintenance equipment to a value of $95
million; and
o     improvements to the planning and management of highway
rehabilitation, and of equipment management.
The project also comprised components for training and road safety
improvements.
2.      ImJl-mntatiLn  szie&nce
2.01    The project experienced a slow start-up due to disagreements over
bidding documents, which should have been agreed before Board presentation.
Completion dates for individual contracts were frequently extended to
accommcdate shortages of counterpart funds, bitumen, beA weather etc, but work
quality was good. This did not prevent the project achieving an exemplary
disbursement performance, with 98 percent disbursed by the original Closing
Date.
2.02    As this was a follow-on project from the First Highway Project (Loan
2137) implementation was smooth and efficient. However, the equipment
component required a large number of time consuming small disbursements,
procedures for which were gradually simplified. Most of the difficulties
concerned with procurement related to the drafting of the specifications, in
which practice RGN is now much improved. There are still areas of significant
disagreement over conditions of bidding and contracting, but a constructive
dialogue continues.



iii
2.03    The Project Coordinator and his staff, with the experionce of two
successfully completed projects, have been crucial to the project's success,
but staff attrition during projq.ct implementation resulted in a deterioration
in the quality of reporting.
3.      Results
3.01    The project's objectives of strengthening KGMIs planning and contract
execution capabilitLes through the execution of eight road rehabilitation
contracts were well and fully achieved. Som 560 km of state highway were
widened, strengthened to support international axle loads, and provided with
widened hard shoulders, to enhance ease of maintenance, safety and traffic
capacity. %GM has developed improved techniques, procedures and documentation
for the selection and contracting of works, and their construction
specifications and quality control standards were also upgraded.
3.02    on the equipment side, new and more appropriate machinery to a value
of $95 million was added to RGMOs flret, and spare parts were prccured for
renovation of viable equipment. Equally beneficial, a much larger number of
old and inefficient machines were written off. This resulted in a younger
fleet of equipment more appropriate to modern mechanized maintenance,
including specialized machinery for motorway maintenance.
3.03    Although the consulting budget provided under ahe loan was not
utilized, outside assistance was used for studies of road safety, equipment
management systems and the design of a pavement management system, all of
which led to a strengthened institution. The skill, speed and volume of XGKo'
work in economic analysis also improved.
4.      Sustainability
4.01    The excellent physical results of the project, and its good
disbursement performance were brought about by improvements in management and
techniques in an already accomplished and well-led institution. As there is
low staff turnover in KOM, and the Bank project was implemented with the rect
of KOM's investment programme, sustainability is likely to be maintained.
4.02    A lively dialogue continued with the Borrower through the follow-on
project, and ideas not taken up in the completed project were pursued
subsequently. Continued Bank presence through a series of projects can only
enhance sustaiuability.
S.      Overall Agsessmnt
5.01    The Second Highway Project has been successful.  The civil works
programme resulted in the strengthening and upgrading of important sections of
the main highway network oriented to export and transit trade ; there was a
significant improvement in the age, serviceability and appropriateness of
OM"'s equipment fleet;  there was also institutional strengthening in the



Lv
fields of road safety management, project management and international
procurement, pavement design and research, and a significant number of
technical staff traveled abroad for training. The project improved the
condition of the road network and led to a stronger institution. The
partnership between Bank and RON continued to strengthen throughout this
second project, which in being followed by a third and much larger project.
6.            FinlUnos and Lessgns
6.01    Closer agreement should be reached before Bo%rd prosentation on
bidding documents and the use of consultants. The Bank should ensure that
staff turnover does not adversely affect the effectiveness of its supervision
and project implementation.
6.02    The satisfactory outcome of this project is the result of a continuing
dialogue with the Borrower, despite occasional disagreements, providing
continuity over a series of projects. The lessons learned by the Borrower and
the administrative procedures established during the first project were
largely responsible for the success of the present project.
6.03    Strong leadership in RON and good support from the Government
contributed greatly to the success of the projec..  With a strong institution
as a partner, a thorough preparation was possible, resulting in a smoothly
implemented project.



REPUBLIC °F TURKEY
asECON HIGHWAY PROJECT
ILOAN 2439-T=l
Mg=EC  oDMPLETXDN REPORT
PART 14E&G RE*STJVIEW ERM ANMI8 pAR8ghQTXV
1.           tQ;oieCt Identity
Names           Second Nighway Project
Loan No.:       2439-TU
RVP Unit:       Europe and Central Asia (formerly EMENA)
Country:        Turkey
Sectors         Transport
Subsectors      Highways
2.      Nackq=und
2.01    The project followed directly the Bank's first operation in the
highway subsector, the First Highway Project, Loan 2137 of 198231. Both
projects took place during a period of rapid growth in the Turkish economy,
and were primarily directed towards facilitating exports and helping Turkey
fulfill its historic role linking Europe and Asia.
2.02    Bank lending to Turkey in the transport sector began in 1950  with two
back to back loans to the port sector, and to date there have been four port,
two railway and three highw ; projects, though there was a nineteen year gap
after the two port projects. There has been one further highway loan since
Loan 2439k (see Part 1II, Table 1), and one railway loan is still active.
2.03    Lending for highways did not begin until 1982, by which time Turkey
had produced its first Transport Master Plan and sought Bank assistance with
its implementation. originally assistance was sought for the TEM (Trans
European Motorway), but the Bank felt that the main road network was more
important and declined support for the TEM. The Government then invited the
Bank to participate in a sector loan which did not materialize. Finally in
1981 the Bank was invited to participate in the Trans Turkey Highway Project
(TETEK), which consisted of strengthening and bringing to a consistent
standard, two main West - East axes of existing state roads. The first project
laid the ground work for sound project development, planning and
implementation and was very successful. A good dialogue was developed, which
lead without a break to the project herein described.  There were, however,
disagreements over some procurement and policy matters from the beginning and
same still remain unresolved.
v/      Actually named  Highway Rehabilitation Project
v,      In this report the Hlghway RehabilLtation Project is referred to as
"the first project", and the State and Provincial Roads Project as
"the follow-on project".



2
3.      Proiect  qhiectiv   and Dscr1pti2on
3.01    Proioet Objectives. The moin objectives of the project were lnepired
by the 1982 National TranseV'rt Master Plan (NVWP), for the years 1983-93, and
were to support RGO in the preparation and implementation of a sound
investment programme, through aailstance with the implomentatLon of MGWMs
1985-88 programme. More specLfically the objectives were tot
(a) promote highway planning and control systems for capital and
maintenance works*
(b) rehabilitate and strengthen sections of highway yielding quick
bernefits and promoting exports;
(c) develop a management system of a well balanced equipment fleet in
KOM;
(d) develop road pavement research and management;
(e) ensure appropriate road user taxation for heavy vehicles;
(f) provide training for XGM staff; and
(g) continue the highway safety programme begun under the provious
project.
3.02    Proiegt Descrigtion. The components of the project were:
(a) execution of selectod sub-projects from RGM's 1985-88 investment
programme, i.e. execution of 8 road rehabilitation contracts on
major Turkish arteries;
(b) procurement of equipment and spare parts needed for the
modernization of KOM's equipment fleet, mainly for re-equipping
maintenance teams, and providing spare parts for the existing
fleet;
(c) fellowships for the training of RMO staff; continuing the ongoing
programme of overseas visits and ad hoc courest and
(d) provision cf 200 man-months of consulting services to RGM for:
pavement research and planning, for design and supervision of
large projects and for other services related to GMN's investment
programme.
4.      Project Desian and Oraanizatio.
4.01    The project was designed to be a direct continuation of the First
Highway Project (Loan 2137-TU), and used essentially the same procedures and
staff, but with some improvements. It "inherited" two contracts from the
first project, and in its turn has passed on three to its successor project.
The emphasis of the jhysical components was completion of the D1TEX or Trans
Turkey Highway. Thi route embodies Turkey's historic transit role astride
the continents of Europe and Asia, and brings traffic from Bulgaria and
Yugoslavia, across the Bosphorus to Gerede, where the northern TETEK continues



3
due East to Iran, and the Southern TTERI turns South and East to Ankara,
Adana, and thence to Syria and Iraq.  Long sect iw  of the Southern TITEX were
rehabilitated under the first project, and saw a dramatic increase in traffic
due to the Iran-Iraq war. This second project concentrated on the Northern
TSE5E east of Gerede (the westword link to the Bulgarian border was planred to
be and now largely is, a motorway) and border crossings on the Iranian and
Syrian frontiers. Traffic data and road condition surveys were used to
identify candidate sections, which were then subjected to economic analysis
and other planning techniques developed in ROM during the first project.
4.02    The rationale for the equipment and spare parts component was to
improve the functionality of KOM's considerable equipment fleet. The concept
was to aim for a smaller, younger, more available, more appropriate and better
managed fleet, oriented towards maintenance, and to de-emphasise construction,
which was being let increasingly to contract. A key feature of maintenance
improvement was the decision to group the maintenance teams around an all
purpose vehicle such as the Unimog or Brimont, with a range of attachments for
snow clearance, compacting, salt spreading etc. This has brought an immediate
improvement in qual'ty and productivity, allowed a reduction in the fc_ce
account labor force, and the substitution of a single general purpose machine
for a number of single purpose machines that were idle for much of the year.
4.03    The fellowship (training) programme was also a direct continuation of
the first project, designed to give more Turkish engineers exposure to
conditions in other highway departments, and to fill specific gaps in the
expertsLe of KGM by sending engineers on selected courses abroad.
4.04    The consultancy component was Lncluded essentLally as a contingency
Item, should the Government decide that a consultants input was requlred to
help RON address variou issues under discussion with the Bank during project
preparation. These included but were not limlted to a) deslgn and supervLsion
of large projects, b) pavement research and Pavement Management Systems, c)
pavement performance under heavy vehLeles, and d) improvement of highway
safety. Notable among the issues at the time was the proposal of the Turkish
Government to embark on a motorway construction programme, linked to the
second Bosphorus BrLdge, which was under constructlon at the time. Although
not taking lssue wlth the need for the brldge, the Bank wanted to be fully
convinced of the need for a 1500 km motorway programme, and felt this could be
achLeved by belng involved in the feasLbility studies and project preparation.
To gain a seat at the table, the Bank persuaded RON during negotLatlons to
lnclude 200 man months of consultancy in the project for "the management of
large projects". However, in the event, the component was not activated. The
motorway programme went ahead and the Bank subsequently reviewed the economic
justLfLcatLon of some motorway sections, which were found to have acceptable
rates of return.
4.05 The Road Safety programme was designed to contlnue the work of KGM's
Maintenance Department, aided by a master study by Ege University and Middle
East Technical Universlty on identiflcation of accident black spots, and the
design of amellorating measures to reduce the identified road safety hazards.



4
5.      Prolect Implementation
5.01    Loan Efffeltivenesg ad start up, The loan was signed one week after
Board prosentation, on June 1S, 1984,-but did not become effective until
November 6, 1984 because of delays on the part of Treasury in opening the
Special Account which was a condition of effectLveness. It should be noted
that once opened, it was managed by the Central Bank with great efficiency and
was a major factor in the good disbursement performance of the loan.
5.02    Implementation Schedule-and Procurement.  Delays occurred on reaching
agreement on the biddin, documents and on letting the first contracts for
civil works. The first three contracts, using bidding documents modified from
the first project, were not signed until October 1985. After protracted
discussion, the Bank finally agreed to the award of these contracts on an
exceptional basis. The choice of the ruling language was a major issue, and
there were disagreements over the wording of the prequalification documents.
In the end only one foreign contractor was prequalified. In a project
directly following one under implementation, a smoother transition from one
loan to the next might have been expected, but in fact the transition was not
entirely smooth because of difficulties Turkey faced in accepting foreign
competition in bidding on contracts financed by the Bank.   The same problems
delayed the start up of the follow-on project. The important lessons for the
Bank here are i) the importance of a clear and detailed agreement ,n bidding
documents before Board Presentation, that is consistently applied during
project implementation, while at the same time, ii) being flexible in
interpreting and applying Bank guidelines with our older Borrowers.
503    The remaining contracts were only let (using the agreed bidding
documents) after the Bank received a written undertaking that any new project
would use bidding documents that were more in line with international
practice. The main points outstanding at that time were KGR's wish to adhere
to the use of ceiling unit prices, a reluctance to use any index or set of
indices for price escalation and a refusal to consider escalation of the
foreign currency portion of contract payments. The next five contracts were
then let using the same documents. In the event XGN was true to its word and
substantially new documents were agreed prior to the follow-on project's start
up. There are still points of procedural disagreement, notably over the
treatment of foreign currency conversion and escalation, which are still under
discussion.
5 04    Turkey has sometimes expressed the view that whereas the Bank may have
its Guidelines, the Government has its own public bidding law, #2866 of 1986,
by which its government departments are bound. The Government has often
stated that the Bank should be satisfied by having good competition and low
prices, conditions which ROM has always shown to exist. Indeed, ROM was
concerned that unit prices were being driven down too low by competition
brought on by recession, and the Bank's insistence on award to the lowest
evaluated bidder was forcing KX¢  to sign with contractors at prices which were
unworkably low. Prices in Turkey are traditionally expressed as a percentage
below (they are rarely above) the rates published annually by the Ministry of
Public Works and Settlement (MPWS), and in 1987 and 1988, bid reductions of 40
percent were common. Turkey's own bid evaluation system combines price with
the quality of the firm as measured by points gained during prequalification,
much as the Bank's Guidelines for the evaluation of consultants do. As older



5
borrowers such as Turkey mature, there is likely to be more frietLon in
adhering to Bank requirements. Not infrequently ROM adopted a practice of lts
own accord after the Bank stopped making an issue of the particular practico.
5.0S    Design and supervision of all contracts were undertaken by RON, mainly
through its regional offices. A feature of the design on most contracts was
the use of a mechanically stabilized crushed limestone base course, 1opp.d
with a bituminous concrete wearing course. The base material is weigh batched
from sized components, wetted and mixed in a pug mill, transported slightly
wet of optimum moisture content and laid with a paver. The resulting bass
course in excellent. To align with European Community standards, the design
axle load was raised from 10 tonnes to 11.5 tonnes during the course of the
project, occasioning the need to thicken the pavement's base course.
5.06    aoui=ment Drocuremel?t was generally well organized, and procedures
were strictly followed, using an excellent and comprehensive document based on
the Bank's Sample Bidding Document for Goods. There were disagreements over
some specifications, which tended to be written too tightly, but which are now
based on an analysis of the characteristics of the leading manufacturer's
specifications, so that no company is excluded inadvertently. This analysis
now accompanies KGM's request for clearance of the specification. There were
frequent disputes between bidders on the interpretation of the specifications
or the evaluation of bids.
S.07    The arrival of new equipment was accompanied by a serious attempt to
write the junk off the books, and shape the fleet more towards maintenance, as
more and more construction is now being put to contract. The result has been
a smaller fleet, consisting of younger and more appropriate items. This
process is continuing under Loan 3324. The Bank employed a specialist in
equipment fleet management during preparation, who was able to get agreement
to the writing off, and to the needs based selection of the new equipment.
During the project preparation spare parts inventory control was highlighted
as an area of management suggested for improvement. After a fruitless search
for off the shelf software, including a trip to the United States by KON
equipment managers, it was decided to commission the writing of an ad hoc
piece of software for KGM's unique Equipment Fleet and Spare Parts Inventory
Management System. Although the Bank participated in preparing terms of
reference and selection of the software specialist chosen to write the
software, 1GX elected to defray the costs of this exercise from its own
budget.
5.08    Manaaement of Civil Works. A source of difference between the Bank
and KGM was the practice of adding work to a contract as it progressed, and of
granting generous extensions of contract completion dates. The results of
this policy can be seen in Annex A, which shows the original and flnal
completion dates, and analysis of reaoons for delay on selected contracts.
Delays or extensions were due mainly to combinations of the following reasons:
- lack of XGM budget allocation;
- bad weather;
- problems of land acquisition;
- shortages of bitumen.



6
In the follow-on project the bidding documents provide for *bad weather" to be
interpreted as abnormally bad; the contractor is expected to programme the
normally expected number of wet or snowy days into hio programme. The other
problems remain but improved contract management is a declared objective of
XGM, and we are working with them to improve the state of preparedness of
projects prior to bidding. The bitumen problem was largely solved by a change
to the Loan Agreement, creating a new category lc) to permit the purchase of
bitumen in bulk by RON for supply below the line to contractors, and a
corresponding decrease in the disbursement percentage for civil works ex
bitumen.
5.09    The Pavement Desqin Experiment was constructed in 1987, after a visit
by a consultant from the UK Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL# now
TRL) on the Eskisehir Road, some 20 km from Ankara. Twenty four sections each
lOOM in length have been constructed and are under traffic and detailed
observation at present. The first published results will be available in
1993, but full results are planned for 10, 1S and 20 years after laying. Part
UI of this PCR gives more details. The introduction of a pavement management
system was deemed to be "premature" and not pursued.
S.10    Proiset Costs.  During the project period of seven and a half years
the rate of exchange went from T1 320 - $1, to TL7280 a $1, a change of 2200
percent. With an exchange rate changing so quickly a comparison of costs in
local currency would be meaningless and has not been attempted. The figures
shown in Tables SA and 58 are derived from actual disbursements from the loan
account. In fact the loan covered the cost of completion of two contracts
carried over from the first project totalling slightly less than $1 million,
and of the contracts listed in Table 60 of these, four are being completed by
the follow-on project, for an estimated total cost to Loan 3324 of $10.4
million. MPHS has learned to live with high inflation by publishing a
comprehensive list of unit rates for construction work on January 1 of each
year. All contracts are revalued as of that date and the bid unit rates are
adjusted pro rata by the change in the MPWS unit rate. The contractor is paid
according to those rates for the year, until the next revaluation.
5.11    Disburs mentg. As mentioned elsewhere, despite slowness in
implementation of individual civil works contracts, loan disbursement
performance was excellent. This was due to the early and "lumpy" nature of
the equipment purchases, and to the performance of 'GM's dedicated and
increasingly experienced Project Coordinator and his staff, of Treasury and
the Central Bank, where the Special Account was managed. Disbursements
including payments under SOB's were well handled. To speed up the large
number of small and mid-size purchases of equipment and spare parts, the
Central Bank began making agreements to reimburse on locally opened letters of
credit on the credit of the Spewial Account. This required them to reserve
the amount eventually to be paid, from the date of the letter of credit, and
following their request the maximum size of the Special Account was increased
in May 1988 from $9 million to $12 million. sy the time of the Original
Closing Date, 98 percent of the loan had been disbursed, and the remaining 2
percent was disbursed within the one year extension. The use of 803's and the
efficient use of the Special Account helped speed disbursements. RGM staff
have frequently mentioned the helpfulness of the staff of the Controllers'
Department who gave the initial training in disbursement practices.



7
5.12    Lgam AllocLtion.  The allocoations under Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement as planned, revised and finally disbursed, are shown in Part III.
Category 1 was restructured to allow diLburevments for the purchase of
imported bitumen at 100 percent as a separate item, and a compensating change
was made in the disbursement percentage for civil works.
5.13    Trining,8 Tte training component was well managed by XGM and is
described in detail in Part I. A UK organisation, the British council, was
employed to make the training arrangements and host KGO staff in Britain for
courses or technical visits. The training was appreciated by all
participating staff, and lead to a greatly increased emphasis on training
throughout KOM, and the establishment of its own training center on the
outskirts of Ankara, with assistance in equipping it being provided under the
follow-on project. During the project KGM acquired the International Road
Federation's set of 48 training videotapes, and the right to prepare and
distribute a Turkish language version.
6.      Proiect Results
6.01    ProJect Obiectives.  The project was successful in achieving all its
principal objectives, even though regional economic and political conditions
temporarily reduced the economic impact of the road rehabilitation component.
Institutionally, KGM improved its performance and procedures and enhanced its
skills in many areas. The loan funds provided for consulting services were
not used, mainly due to KGK believing that it had already developed the
necessary "in house" expertise. The financing of consultants through the loan
appears to have been declined in order to keep the Bank at a certain distance
from internal management. As noted in para 4.04, the inclusion of 200 man
months of consultancy in the management of large projects was an attempt by
the Bank to obtain some leverage in the preparation of the motorway programme,
particularly its economic justification. When the project became effective
Bank staff were unable to reach any agreement with 1GM on the form that the
Bank's participation should take. KGM said that the programme was being well
managed by themselves and their consultants (who included some of the world's
major companies) and there was no need for Bank financing. In an institution
where the Director General was named "Man of the Year" in 1991 by the
International Road Federation, and whose department heads sit on PIARC
committees, the Bank should take a flexible attitude to its more mature
borrowers, and recognize that it does not have to be involved with every
aspect of a Borrower's management of a particular sector.  Nevertheless the
Bank has been able to develop a close working relationship with KGM and Bank
assistance continues under the follow-on project in areas, e.g. the
development of a Pavement Management System, where it was declined before.
The Bank should take the institutional view that KGM has made significant
improvements in its management and engineering capability, and has matured as
an institution, during the period of partnership with the Bank.
6.02    Economic Results.  The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) of the eight
road contracts based on predicted traffic and cost (in 1983) and actual
traffic and cost in 19910' are shown in Table 68. At first glance final
results are substantially lower than appraisal predictions, and one road even



8
shows an ERR below 12 percent. A number of points must be made in
interprtting the resultst
0    Firstly, KOM has greatly improved its economic evaluation
methodology during the project period, and has adopted the HDM
vehicle operating cost (VOC) module. This has given much more
realistic costs than those based on the RAM (Road Analysis Model)
used in 1985, which had a tendency to over-estimate benefits.
Table 68 shows in col 1 the ERR predicted using the RAM, while
col 2 shows the ERR that would have been predicted if the HDM VOC
module has been available at the time.
o    Secondly, there has been an unprecedented series of regional
political and military conflicts which have had a negative impact
on traffic growth on some contracts, as can be seen from columns
S and 6 of table 68. Road section #1 connects the major port city
of Iskenderun with North Western Syria and the city of Allepo via
a border crossing at Cilvegozu. Traffic on this road is les
than half the predicted value, despite marked growth in the
Cukurova region generally. This is mainly due to a weakening of
relations between the two countries. If and when relations
normalize and the frequent closures of the border crossing come
to an end, traffic will definitely grow markedly.
The other road section seriously affected by external events is
#3, the Diyadin - Gurbulak Road (76km). It must be recalled that
this and the first project were both intended to fulfil Turkey's
long term goal of providing fully for international traffic, and
more particularly, to upgrade the TETEK route. Gurbulak is the
eastern terminal of the northern TETEK, and is the border
crossing point to Iran. At Appraisal traffic was low because 0i
the Iran-Iraq war, but the war was expected to end quickly and
the wealthy state of Iran would import many of the inputs
required for its reconstruction through the Turkish ports of
Hoppa and Trabzon, which the Bank was in the process of re-
equipping for that purpose. The war ended much later than
anticipated, leaving Iran exhausted and although traffic has
increased above the prediction, it has not compensated for what
over-estimated ERR at Appraisal. The construction period has
been extended to more than double the original contract period,
due to the security problem in the area, and to the short
construction period necessitated by the long and severe winter.
Twenty kilometers of this road were designed to be dual
carriageway, but following the Bank's suggestion, one carriageway
has been deleted from the present contract. As this contract is
still continuing final costs are not known, and the ERR will be
recalculated when the road is fully open to traffic.
O    Thirdly, KGM makes the point that each of the sections is viewed
as one necessary link from Europe to Asia, and viewed over a
longer time span than the present difficult period in the
region'. history, and in the context of the completed trans
Turkey route, all sections will be seen as fully justified. In



9
this context, Diyadin-Gurbelak, which looks like a poor
investment at present will most likely be shown as justified
within ten years.
0    All other roads show an acceptable (12 percent or more) rate of
return. #5 is still under construction, and will be recalculated
on completion.
6.03    The other components of the project are not directly justifiable by
economic calculations, but have nevertheless yielded economic benefits. The
acquisition of new equipment enabled KOM to write off its books a much larger
number of inefficient units with high maintenance costs, and the average age
of the fleet has fallen. The computerized spare parts system when on line,
will enable the present fleet to be serviced with a smaller amount of working
capital tied up in spare parts en the shelf, and should greatly reduce the
cost of dead stock. The road safety component has resulted in a reduction of
accidents of up to 20 percent on certain roads, due to the success of ad hoc
black spot treatments. The benefits of accident reduction are not readily
quantifiable, but they are real nevertheless. The training component has led
to the introduction of more efficient techniques of construction and to
enhanced possibilities of computerized design.
7.      Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.01    Sustainability has been excellent, mainly because the benefits have
been brought about because of the Borrowers motivation, and not to comply with
a loan covenant or policy proposal urged by the Bank. The project is one of a
series with the same institution. It is clear that the benefits of the First
Highway Project were sustained during the execution of this project, and were
strengthened by this project, which in turn transferred its benefits to the
follow-on project. Thus both projects have demonstrated sustainable benefits,
each building on the one before.
o    In the physical sense, roads were constructed to improved
technical standards, and are being better maintained because of
higher geometric and construction standards, and because of the
improvements brought to maintenance practice under the project.
0    Institutionally KGH has grown greatly in many areas; investment
planning; highway management; project selection and preparation;
procurement procedures; project and contract management; pavement
design and technical specifications; equipment management and
maintenance procedures.
7.02    From 1977 onwards KGM had the benefit of a strong and innovative
leader, committed to strengthening and reforming the institution. The
Director General (DG) changed in early 19921 by comparison the DG of the
railways changed four (4) times in the same period. It is regrettably common
in many countries where for example a good implementation unit is established
in an agency, involving expatriate technical assistance, that effectiveness is
often lost when the project ends. This has fortunately not been the case in
MN where, although changes often involve much negotiation and dialogue to
achieve, institutional gains once made, have, so far, seem sustained. This has
been possible by unusually high continuity of staff in RGM. Not only at DG



10
level, but department heads and the Project Coordinator have all remained the
same during the implementation period.
8.01    Bank Performanc.  Starting with a high input to project proparation
and appraisal (90sw), the Bank made every effort to prepre ION for the
project In great detail. The larg, number of small procurements packages
resulted in close supervLidon, and frequent communications. Average
supervision was 15 ow per year.
Two important lessons emrgo for the Bank from the projeett
a)   Failure to reach final agrement on the cLvll works bidding
documents before Board presentation cost the project several
months delays
b)   There was no clear understanding between Bank and Borrower durlng
appraisal on the use of consultants. It is likely that the
Turkish negotiating team agreed to the inclusion of a consulting
budget on a contingency basis, but gave no undertaking to make
use of lt. This should have been made clearer in the SAR and in
the Minutes of Negotiations. (see also comments in section 9
below).
9,      Borrower's Performance
9.01    It li abundantly clear that because of a large comitment in time by
staff of both institutions to the first project and continued through to the
present project, XGM is a competent implomenter of the cLvil works and
procurement aspects of Bank projects. However, they remain resLstant to
further allgnment of their procurement procedures with the Bank's and
reluctant to introduce pollcy change and hire consultants as part of a Bank
project. The Bank must consider this in its future dLalogue, and acknowledge
that considerable institutional strengthening and policy change are
nevertheless taking place.
9.02    Good and timely audit reports were receLved throughout the life of the
project; not a single audit report was late. These were prepared by Treasury,
following procedures agreed during the fLrat project: disbursements were well
handled and the SpecLal Account was particularly well managed. In a gradual
process involving the procurement of a large number of equipment items and
spare parts packages, RON evolved efficient procurement procedures, although
it was necessary to repeat the same comments about framing of specifications a
number of times. The Borrower's general admLnistration of the project through
the Project Coordinator and his staff was very good, in spite of staff
cutbacks in that office.
9.03    Technical performance was good, with relatively more slippage in the
area of construction contract completion dates. The latter was not due to
laxity, however; it was the prevaLling contract management culture, and in the
follow-on loan, has been largely corrected. Occasionally there were delays in
availability of, or cutbacks in, counterpart funds, obliging the contractor to
go slow for the remainder of that fiscal year or quarter, but disbursement
performance was excellent overall.
9.04    There was less enthusiasm on the Borrower's part for institutional
change as an output of a Bank project, or for the hiring of consultants to
help bring it about. This is due to the TurkLih desire to make changes for



11
their own reasons, rather than in response to external pressure. Although
consultants were used both in the road safety programme and in setting up the
road pavement design experiment, they were not charged to the loan. However,
important changes and instltutional improvements are taking place throughout
GMM as a continuous proces, and recently the Bank has been invited to comment
on a prelimlnary reorganization study prepared by the US Federal HLghway
Administration.
9.05    The main lessons to be learnt by the executing agency in this project
have already been incorporated into the follow-on project. During its
appraisal it was relatively simple to select project components because of the
greatly improved data bases available on traffic composition, pavement
conditlon etc, and good quality feasibillty studLes were produced quickly, and
all other departments met wlth the appraisal team with well prepared and
justifLed components. This was not the case for the first two projects.
9.06    Though there still remain serious differences in procurement policy,
as a result of this project and its implementation experience, the Bank and
the Borrower moved much closer together over procurement lssues in the follow-
on project.
9.07    Project preparation was qulckly done once the decisLon was made to
proceed. However, the price paid for this speed was that bid specifications,
and consequently contracts, were not prepared in the usual depth, producing a
certain amount of additional work added after contract signature. Supervislon
was tight and road work appears to be of high quality. KGM ls particularly
strong in materials testing, and slte laboratories visited during Bank
mssions appeared efflcient.
10.01 Bank-DorroXer/Relationship. There has been only modest turnover of
staff at KGM and at the Bank responsible for the series of three projects, and
the resulting continuity has resulted ln good relationships at the personal
level. The disagreements that have occurred while real, have not affected the
generally warm and cooperative relationship, though there was a low point in
relations in June 1987, resulting from differences of oplnion on the motorway
programme and the degree of condltlonality that should accompany the proposed
sector loan.
11.
11.01 Consultino Services Consultants were used for shaplng the pavement
deslgn experiment, preparing a report on remedial road safety measures to
improve accldent black spots and crltical road sections, and to develop
software for the equlpment management and spare parts control programme. All
consultants performed satisfactorily.  However, KOM chose not to charge the
cost of these servLces to the consultants budget (loan agreement category 3.)
Consultants were also employed to manage the trainLng component in the United
Kingdom, and they were charged to the tralning component.
12.
12.01   Proiect Documentation and Daa  Project documentation was
satisfactory. The SAR gave considerable guidance on project implementatlon
procedures which were appreciated by the Borrower. The Loan Agreement was
amended once to introduce a new category from which bitumen could be flnanced.



12
PARTJZLM   PRnJUCT ME!UW PROKM MM E  1ROW3R' S PRRSP!!VR
The following contributions have been received from corrernponding Mm)
department heads.  There is no overview of the project as a whole from MM)
senior management, nor a report from Construction Department which executed
the bulk of the project, though a map and tables of data on the construction
contracts (tables 1I (1,2,and 3) have been prepared. These department reports
have been cleared by XGNs aGeneral Manager and the Treasury. Comments were
received on Parts I and 3, which have been incorporated.
During preparation of the PCR for the previous project (Loan 2439)
senior management comments were only received when OED forwarded the report to
the Borrower.
The reports included in this section are as follows:
o Project Design and organization
o Maintenance and Road Safety
o Iquipment Purchases
o Experimental Road Sections
O Training and Fellowships
O Civil Works contracts: map and tables.



13
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
As is well knowi,, desigai is aimed at creating a model of the final
production.So the success of the activity closely depends on the ingenuity in
creating the suitable mnodel.
On the other hand, it is almost an absolute necessity to accomplishthe
design and ensineerinis works before the actual rehabilitationt activity to ernsure
the feasibility and the economic justification of all projects.
It is a well established fact that a snall percentage of expenditures
in design and engineering works stage always justifies itself and returns much
larger benefits to the owner.
One of the most important tasks comprises to enhance the geometry of the
so called horizontal and vertical standard of the highway.And thus to ensure
safety in vehicle movement.To accomciplish this it is necessary to complete first
of all the design and engineering works by means of the fuCwd provided only by
the Turkish Governmdnt through the National Budget.
We believe it will be possible in this way to arrive at a positive result
regarding the safety and comfort of driving  as well as in operation  costs.
Thus design and engineering activities, wkzich are being carried out presen
for The road sections under the loan No. 2439-TU are based on these considerations.
Contributiotns of the World Bank in financing survey and design worls of the rodd
sections which shall be financed by the Bank in the future loans is expected.



14
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
ROAD SAFETY REPORT
The work done by General Directorate of Turkish Highways
(KGM) by increasing road safety, for the reason of decreasing
traffic accidents, is as follows:
1. MODIFICATION OF ORGANIZATION CHART
It has been decided to continue traffic services as widaly
and as effectively on the level of sub-divisions. For this reason,
the organization charts for sub-divisions were changed. A traffic
engineering position and a maintenance engineering position were
added for each sub-division. Traffic technician position, under
the   responsibility   of   traffic   engineer,   and  maintenance
technician  position  under   the  responsibility  of  maintenance
engineer were added to the organization chart.
2. EQUIPMENT SUPPLY FOR ROAD SAFETY
200   special double cab pick-ups were  acquired and allocated
to the sub-divisions only for use at traffic services. It was
provided that, these vehicles were to be used only for traffic
services.
For carrying out weight control, 200 electronic portable
balances were purchased and were given to each of these vehicles.
3. PERSONNEL APPOINTMENT
For added traffic engineer positions 25 mechanical engineers
were recruited by KGM, trained in service and were appointed to
the sub-divisions. Depending on the number of staff that should
be provided for each year new traffic engineers will t  recruited,
trained and appointed to sub-divisions.
230 traffic technical staff were recently recruited by KGM.
They  were  trained  in  service   and  were  appointed  to   sub-
divisions.
By this way, depending on traffic density, one or two teams
were formed at 112 sub-divisions countrywide.
Staff. members who have been appointed to traffic technician
position, have graduated from technical school above high school.
They were trained in service at the General Directorate of
Highways and practiced at Regional Directorates. Staff who have
been appointed to traffic technician position are not allowed to
work on any other job.
By this way, it is possible for traffic technicians to make
their jobs such as horizontal signing (marking) and vertical
signing, controlling road side facilities,  carrying  out   weight
control and vehicle inspection, more accurately and productively.



is
4. WEIGHT CONTROL WORK
In Turkey, vehicle traffic on the state and provincial roads
network, has continued to increase rapidly. Traffic on maJor
intercity roads often consists of over 0S heavy vehicles such as
bus, truck and trailer.
Transporters are frequently observed with serious overloading.
Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to protect  the   existing  highay
network from destructive effects of the overloaded axles of the
heavy load vehicles. The effective weighing control throughout
the country is considered as the first way of solving the
problem.
The installation of 54 electronic fixed weighing control
stations which will be furnished by weigh-in-motion system at 49
points has been programmed on the main arterial highways. The
establishment and operation of these stations will be bidded.
Award of these contracts in 1993 has been planned.
Now, KGM operates presently 200 portable scales. As it was
mentioned in the section 2, 200 mobile weighing teams have been
formed for extensive control of excessive weights. Their primary
purpose is to control vehicle loading capacity and to provide
data on axle loads. They operate as mobile teams stopping
vehicles   at  random  and   fining  the  excessively   overloaded
vehicles.
5-VEHICLE INSPECTION SERVICES
Legal and technical work was also accomplished for vehicle
inspection -in the modern equipped stations to comply with the
European Community Standards.
Depending on the authority which was given by the Road
Traffic Act, it has been decided to make the vehicle technical
inspections through the real or corporate bodies. The conditions
were announced, the applications were evaluated.
Turkish  Standards  Institute (TSE)   has  been  conditionally
authorized. TSE has been working on this subject for a year.
Establishment of the experimental vehicle inspection station in
Izmir will be completed in August 1993.



16
6-HORIZONTAL (MARKING) AND VERTICAL SIGNING SERVICES
For making traffic signing activities to continue without
interruption to ensure ongoing road and traffic safety every
kind of precaution is being taken and every possibility is being
used.
For increasing visibility and providing permanence of traffic
sign plates; research and improvement activities related to the
improvement of material quality and the development of standards
are being continued.
The activities for providing permanency of cold and hot road
marking paints and increasing their visibility are also being
continued.
Horizontal  (marking)  and  vertical  signing  activities  and
their revisions are being continued in accordance with the
prepared annual programmes.
7-ROAD SAFETY SURVEYS
Road safety surveys that aimed at
a) determining the traffic accidents possibly due to technical
construction, physical condition of our highways and lack of
traffic signings,
b) taking technical precautions to prevent accidents are being
continued since 198S.
The plates which the control section numbers are written on,
have been erected on our state roads and motorways by one km
intervals. It has been provided that control section plates are
to be taken as the fixed point for determining the place of a
traffic   accident,   and   a  special  part  has  been  added  in
the traffic accident determining document by the collaboration of
the General Directorate of Security.
The accident records which are registered by traffic police
are also analyzed by KGM and the places of traffic accidents are
located definitely by the aid of control section plates.
So, the sections and the areas where the same kind of traffic
accidents  takes  place  are  registered as " Black  Point ".  The
obtained  results  from  traffic  accidents   surveys  are   being
gathered in a book and delivered to the Headquarter and the
Regional  Directorates  of  KGM to   warn  related personnel,  and
necessary precautions are being taken.



17
In addition to that, protocols were signed betwesn the
General Directorate  of Highways and  the Middle  East  Technical
University. Istanbul Technical University and Gazi University on
the topic of making road safety surveys. Now, road safety surveys
ore being carried out by these Universities.
The   results   of  road  safety   surveys  prepared  by   the
Universities  are  being  given  to  the   General Directorate  of
Highways as reports.
'KGM has been evaluating the suggestions and proposals for the
sections and areas defined as black point and the technical
precautions to be taken for these sections and areas.
Cross-section    and   intersection   arrangements,    signing
(reinforcement) and improvement activities made on road geometry
for the purpose of decreasing or eliminating traffic accidents
have begun to give positive results.
.VGUARDRAIL INSTALLATION
Installation  of  steel or   concrete. guardrails  has   been
continued in the sections considered necessary or defined as
black point; at the end of road safety surveys and traffic
accident analysis.
By the end of 1991, length of the installed steel guardrails
is 735 km (excluding motorways).
In accordance with the 3324-TU Loan Agreemeht which was
signed with the World Bank, 314 km steel guardrails will be
installed in 1993 and 1994.
9-TRAFFIC TRAINING STUDIES
Human   factor   is  the  active   and  dominant  element   of
traffic environment. Training them on the subject of highway and
traffic security and giving them safe behaviour and habits are
necessary precautions.
By this understanding, programs are being developed to make
the traffic training studies, which are being carried out by the
KGM, widespread and effective throughout the Country.
Since  1987,   KGM  has  been  getting   active  functions  in
preparing course programs for driving courses. By this way,
highway and traffic security subjects have been taught in courses.



On the other hand to learn the traffic subject for students
in primary, secondary and high schools has become indispensable.
General Directorate of Highways has had active functions in 'the
preparation of lecture programmes and in training also the
teachers about traffic subject.
KGM has collaborated with the General Directorate of Security
of the Ministry of the Interior and contributed to the trainino
of the Police in the subject of highway and traffic safety.
The  information  about  the   subject  of highway and traffic
safety has been given to public by the help of press, televisions
and radio.
The distribution of posters and booklets printed by the
General  Directorate  of  Highways   has   been  continuing  as  a
widespread training facilitiy.
A large number of persons were informed about traffic safety
matters at courses by working together with public and private
organizations.
In  result,  it  is   believed that it will  be   possible  to
decrease   traffic  accidents   to  reasonable  levels  by  taking
technical precautions according to the results of road safety
study and training the people and teaching highway and traffic
security subjects more effectively.



19
PART II- 2439-TU PCR ( Project Completion Report)
PROJECF REVIEW FMIM ThE MACHINERY AND EQUIPM    SUPPLY DEPAR7MMT
PERSPECrIVE
At the begining of the Second Highway Project partly financed by the World
Bank (Loan No 2439-TU), from Machinery and Bquipment Supply Department point of view,
the following targets had been mainly aimed :
1. Performing Maintenance and Snow Removal works sufficiently.
2.  Modernf3ation and renovation of Machines in the KGM's ( General Directorate
of Turkish Highways) Fleet to provide more economic working conditions and to
increae the economic savings on spare parts expenditures.
3.  Increasing the number of multipurpose maintenance machines, which are
to be used for the maintenance and repairs of motorways,to a desired
level according to the latest Turkish Highways policies.
The part of the whole loan amount for machinery purchases was USD 76.139 Million
and this amount has been used as follows;
62.5 % of the amount for Maintenance Machines
8.5 % of the amount for Snow Removal Machines
29.0 X of the amount for Construction Machines
I?M's Machinery Fleet have been modernized within the period of 1984-1992
by purchasing new machines with this loan 2439 TU supported by the Wbrld Bank
The working hour comparison between the machines existing in the park in 1984
and in 1992 is given below.
Km (Hour)                      1984           1992
1  - 150.000 km (1 - 5.000 h)       % 35            % 36
151.000 - 300.000 km (5.001-10.000 h)    % 12           % 32
300.001 - 500.000 km (10.001-15.000 h)  % 20            % 14
500.000 -   ...  km (15.000 - ...  h)  % 33             % 18
The above table shows that, the number of machines over the 500.000 km
(or 15.000 hour) group has been decreased considerably and therefore
a new, more powerful and an efficient machinery fleet has been produced.



20
When total spare part expenditures are considered with respect to
years, positive effect of the loan (2439-.TU) in the reduction of spare
parts expenditures can be noticed easily. The table below includes list
of spare parts expenditures between 1978-1992.
YEAR         SPARE PARTS
EXHIITIRES (Million USD)
1978               16.76
1979               16.73
1980               15.15
1981               14.34      Average Value = 14.70
1982               12.76
1983               12.46
1984               10.96
1985               9.87
1986               7.80
1987               10.97
1988               8.07       Average Value  = 9.83
1989               9.55
1990               10.98
1991               10.68
1992               9.58
As can be seen from the above list, the average spare parts
expenditures within 1978-1984 were reduced by %33 when compared to the
expenditures within 1984-1992 by the modernization of Turkish Highways
Machinery fleet using the loan 2439-TU.
Also, for maintenance and reparation of all the otorways (which
were opened or still being constructed),the latest models of multipurpose
machines with special equipments ( off road grass cutters, safety post
and barrier washers, tunnel washers, salt spreaders etc..) are purchased.
These machines are also labor cost saving machines since they are very
suitable for heavy duty jobs using fewer workers.
As a result, when the positive effects of the Loan 2439-TU are
considered on the modernization of machinery fleet and reduction of general
working and spare parts expenditures, it can be stated that the aim of this
project has been reached as expected.



21
SEO0I0 HIGHAY PRFWET LOAN 2439-TU
Revised List of Machinery anrd Equipmnts
( 22.2.1993 )
Equipment Type                         Ouantity         Cost(US A  1000)
Al- MAHINOR
1- Grader, 180 HP                         103             5.222
2- Grader, 130 HP                         222              9.357
3- Dozer                                   40              5.960
4- Loader, 3 Cu.Yd.                        47              3.143
5- Loader, 1,5 Cu.Yd.                      21               878
6- Cramler Drill                           15              1.373
7- sphalt Finisher                          6               483
8- Snow Bloer, 1000 T/hr                   31              3.030
9- Snow Blaoer, 4000 T/hr                   6              1.261
10- Mobile Crane                            17             1.701
11- Tandem Roller                           10               365
12- Rubber Tyred Rbller                     20              1.011
13- Vibratory Roller                        65             2.529
14- Crawler Excavator                       16               912
15- Fbad Maintene Control Vehicle          200             2.288
16- Traffic Control Vehicle                220             3.073
17- Dump Truck (6x8)                         6             1.025
18- Maintennuce Eq.Trailler (Asphalt Plant) 16             1.220
19- Sign Cleaner, Truck Momted              10               987
20- Dump Truck, 4x4                        197             20.682
21- Asphalt Distributor                     16              1.605
22- Dimp Truck,4x4                          30              4.158
23- Dump Truck,Ox8                           6                911
24- Snow Blower, 4000*T/hr                   6              1.191
26- Truck Tractor                           17              1.796
TOrAL  .        7139



22
All- VARIOU EWINT
Purchad
Electronic Theodalite                   32             498
Electronic Thodallte                     3              95
Variaous Rearching Equipmnt           Misc.             735
1.328
AII- SPARE PARTS:
Purchaed (total of paymnts + signed contracts) *    17.801
T O  T A L        95:.26
PHYSICAL CCtN1ZNICIES:        -1.268
GI D  TOTAL:        94.000



.4.
23
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOR EXPERIMENTAL ROAD
The construction of experimental road had been decided in 1984,
aimed at making various technical research studies for different types of
pavements. Two different sections on the new constructed part of Ankara-
Eskisehir divided road were selected for design and construction purposes.
The experimental road sections were located in the coming direction
to Ankara in between the kilometres shown below;
I st section    ; km:20+750-21+970
11 nd section    ; km:25+065-26+375
The scope of the experimental road constructed with the main objective
of performance evaluation of the experimental sections of road comprising
different structural designs for pavement of specified materials under traffic
loads and enviromental conditions would be compared performances of each
sections by using various types of tests and instruments.
Earthworks were started in 1984. It couldn't have been done any
construction work in between the years of 1984-1987. Inadequacy of procurement
of continuous and necessary equipment was the main reason for doing nothing
on the first experimental road section during that time period. In 1987 the
compacted density and moisture content of the first part were again checked
and some sections had tc be removed and were replaced with new material.
Construction of the second part were started in 1988.
First part of experimental road aimed at short and medium design life
consist of 12 sections of each having 100 meters have been objected to visualize
performances of pavement for different types of hydraulic bounded base and
subbase with variable thickness layers. First part opened to the traffic on



24
Nov.1987 were maintained In 1988 and an overlay project were applied to the
surface In 1989. In the year 1990 and the following years, due to the motorway
and ring road construction, fifth and sixth sections of the first experimental
road were damaged under the heavy :onstructlon trucks and also side connecting
road was added to experimental road at these sections.
The second part projected according to the medium and long term
design life has been cornposed of 13 sections of each having 100 meters length.
In the second part of experimental road, variation in parameters of hydraulic
bounded base and subbase layers was rather less than the first part. Long
term service life has been aimed by adding different types of bituminous
base layers and cement bound base layer to the pavement design. The second
part was completed and opened to the traffic in 1989. In the early 1990, an
intersection was to be constructed on the second part of experimental road.
Because of this reason three se^tions had been excluded from monitoring
purpose.
Scope and objectives of first and second part of the experimental road
and field and office studies are summerized below.
Various field studies had been performed during the construction of
each pavement layers to review the existing design procedure and modification
with new parameters, if necessary. Survey on pavement surface by using
various instruments has been continuing periodically for deterioration monitoring
purpose. The most suitable local materials for the pavement layers are tried
to be selected for the future pavement design by evaluating the results of
survey by  comparing each section.
Date on the structural strength parameters and rate of deterioration
such as def:ection, rutting and cracking has been obtaining.They will be
considered as a practice on a certain level for the basis of Pavement
Management System (PMS) to be planned in future. Thus, maintenance works
on the network of Turkish highways will be applied in a more systematic
and efficient way.
Each engineer and technical personal of Pavement Section participsted
actually at the construction stage of experimental road and the necessary
care had been given to the construction so that the staff received additional
training by comnparing theory and the practice through the project.



25
With the evaluation of the studies some known technical results will be
reviewed and also we believe that some new results will be obtained.



26
Second Highway Project
(2439-TU)
PROJECT cyMPLETION REPORT
on FELLOWSHIPS
(Category-4)
Prepared by
Training & Evaluation Division
April 1992



27
I- INTRODUCTION
The Loan Agreemant (Second Highway Project) numbered 2439-TU signed between the
Republic of Turkey and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on
June  15,  1984  covers an amount of $ 186,400,000 to  finance  the  following  items
between 1985 and 1991 in accordance with the Transportation Master Plan.
- Construction and rehabilitation of priority highway sections of the State and
Provincial road systems.
- Provision of equipment and spare parts to be utilized in maintenance and
general services.
- Development   and  application   of suitable    procedures      for   highway
construction and maintenance, pavement research and management, design and
construction of bridges and motorways, equipment and spare parts
inventory  control and management.
- Carrying out necessary training programs for KGM's technical staff.
Although the amount allocated for the training activities and mentioned as
"Category-4 Fellowships" in the Loan Agreement was initially $ 500,000, with the
Bank's approval in 1990 $100,000 was transferred from "Category-7 Unallocated" to
"Category 4" increasing the amount to $ 600,000.
The following section of the Report contains the training activities financed by
the above mentioned allocation.
U- BACKGROUND.
Prior to the signing of the Loan Agreement numbered 2439-TU, a consultant was
employed through the United Nations Development Program in order to plan the Training
Programs for the Loan Agreement numbered 2137-TU, signed in 1982 between our
Government and the World Bank.
After having evaluated the programs which provide inmediate benefit and long term
benefit to the KGM, the Consultant in his report recomended the programs concerning
the imiediste benefit as follows:
- Short term technical observation trips for executives and senior staff
- One-month group training programs for experienced engineers
- A small number of three-month training programs in specific areas.
The training programs under 2137-TU were carried out in accordance with the
Consultant's recommendations.
While the project was underway for the Loan Agreement numbered 2137-TU, the
preparations for the Loan Agreement numbered 2439-TU (Second Highway Rehabilitation
Project) commenced. The World Bank Mission visiting our Organization was informed
about ongoing training programs, training needs of the technical personnel and the
inadequary of the allocation for the training programs.
The Mission's report on this subject expressing their approval stated that the
amount allocated for Training Activities (Category-4) in the Loan Agreement numbered
2439-TU should be spent to continue similar training activities carried out under the
Loan Agreement numbered 2137-TU.
Therefore, the grater part of the allocation for Category-4 in the Loan Agreement
numbered 2439-TU has been used for group training programs.



28
III. PRCPARATLONS
The KGM has worked in cooperation with the British Council and has decided that
short technical observation trips and group training programs meeting the immediate
needs of the KGM would be carried out in the United Kingdom.
It wae suggeated by the British Council that the preparation of the training
progra    being  organized  in  the United  Kingdom  be  coordinated with  Rayfield
Conrultency Services Firm, in England, to run the programs smoothly. This suggestion
wee elmc approved by the KGM.
The training programs and  the training  participants were determined by KG". The
training  program   were conducted by the British Council  and  Rayfield  Consultency
Services Firm in accordance with the protocol signed between KG99 and BC.
IV. IftLETATION
The training activities carried out through the allocation for fellowships is
explained below according to the dates, and the summary is shown ihf TABLE-1.
195
In 1985, 60 participants including executives, senior personnel, senior
engiqnsrs and engineers attended the training programs which were carried out in 5
separate groups.
FIRST GROUP:
JUNE 28-JULY 14, 1985                                 12 EXECUTIVES
The program  for this group, which were excutives, mainly  included  observation
visits to Highway and Transport Departments of County Councils in the United Kingdom.
First, during a visit to the Highways and Transport Department of Greater London
Council, County Hall, the group had the opportunity to become informed on city
traffic organization, computer aided signalization and maintenance of the bridges on
the Thames. Later, while visiting the Hampshire County Council, the attendants were
informed about maintenance, snow removal equipment, and they observed the works of
traffic signing teams. Pavement works were viewed during a visit to M25 (London
Orbital Motorway) and the M4 interchange. Finally, Construction Industry Training
Board-Training Center in King's Lynn was visited where various theoritical and
ptactical training programs have been conducted on construction activities and
proceedures.
SECOV GROUP:
JULY 5-21, 1985.                                   12 SENIOR ENGINEERS
This training program, created for senior engineers, was conducted observe the
Infrastructure, drainage works, Motorways, State Highways, Provincial and Urban Roads
In the United Kingdom.
The authorities in Maidstone County Council gave information to the members of
the group about the maintenance and rehabilitation of State Highways, Motorways and
Port   Peripheral Roads under the control of County Councils and the funds  allocated
for thi above activities.
In addition, the group visited the Traffic Control Center of the City and mas
informed about traffic safety, traffic signalization, traffic flow and organization
undwr the control of central traffic computers.



29
THIRD GROUP:
JULY 19-AUGUST 4', 1985                          12 EXECUTIVES
In this trip, the group visited highways and bridges and received 'information
about planning, design, construction and maintenance activities, operation techniques
and  equipment. The program for this group also included a visit to the Construction
Industry Training Board-Training Center in King's Lynn. While visiting the Transport
and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL) in Crowthorne, participants were Informed about
pavement    design,  construction,  materials and  maintenance,  the  researches  and
improvements in soil mechanics. In addition, a briefing was held on the consequences
of a specific pavement research case study which was jointly carried out with KGM
and TRRL.
The group lastly visited the Berkshire County Council-Highway Department and
received information regarding the organizational structure, highways and motorways
and their maintenance and planning, which are the responsibility of the Council.
FOURTH GROUP:
JULY 26-AUGUST 11. 1985                             12 ENGINEERS
Visits to certain companies and organizations concerned with motorways, bridge
and tunnel design, and construction projects took up an important pprt of this
training  program.  The Balfour and Beatty Company was visited to  survey   road  and
bridge construction. The Goodwin Barsby Ltd. Company in Leicester was visited to
review resarch on asphalt works. Information was obtained on machinary used for road
construction and maintenance during the visit to the factory in Maidstone. Besides
the companies, the Highways Departments of Hampshire County Council and West Midlands
Co.wnty Council were visited, and information on traffic and bridges was obtained. The
tunnel construction works on the Ml motorway, including the grade separated
interchange  including  3 bridges on the 144 and M25 Motorways  were    surveyed  and
participants were informed on the matter. Various computer firms were visited to
obtain information on the use of computers during road and bridge design and
construction.
FIFTH GROUP:
SEPTEMBER 6-22, 1985                                12 SENIOR STAFF
Various companies and laboratories who specialized in materials and machinery for
construction were visited. Amey Roadstone Ltd. Company was visited to survey the
production  of cold  pavement mixture and concrete  pavement materials. Blaw  Knox
Construction Equipment Ltd. Company was visited to observe the production of asphalt
paders end information was obtained on construction equipment. The Transport Road and
Rdesarch Laboratory was visited and participants were informed about various  studies
and  research.  Information  was  obtained on  training  from  Construction  Industry
Training Board-Training Center in King's Lynn.
Finally, various computer centers were visited. Participants were informed about
the 'use of computers during road and bridge design and construction.



30
1986
In 1986, six group training programs had been arranged, and 72 executives, senior
staff and engineers participated in these programs.
Detailed information concerning the achievement of each program is given below.
FIRST GROUPs
MAY 1-MAY 18, 1986                                      12 ENGINEERS.
12 engineers experienced in road maintenance and traffic engineering participated
in this program.
In this training program, a briefing about the UK Highways System was given to
the group. Also many visits, studies and observations were made. The group was
informed about the construction of M1/M25 Motorways and about the Norfolk County
Council Highways Department. Sir Owen Williams Partners and L.G4 Mouchel-Partners
Company were visited and the group was informed about the laeest techniques in
highway   design,  construction  and  maintenance.  Many  factories,  companies   end
corporations were visited during the group observed the uses of mobile traffic 'ight
systems,  traffic  control computer system, vacuum applicators and   asphalt  plants.
Milton Keynes, a new town complex, was visited and the group was informed about new
city-planning technology used there. At Construction Industry Training Board, the
group was informed about their training programs.
SECOND GROUP:
MAY 22-JUNE 8, 1986                        12 SENIOR STAFF AND-ENGINEERS
12 senior staff and engineers, experienced in road-construction, material and
quality control, participated in this program. The group was given an introductory
lecture on the UK Highway System. During the tour, visits to various companies and
establishments took place. In these visits, briefings on selected topics were given.
ASTEC Industries in Barnet was visited and the group was informed about asphalt
plants and road construction equipment. The group visited the Cement and Concrete
Association in Slough. They were informed about concrete road construction and was
observed many sites. The Ml/M25 London Orbital Motorways sites and the TRRL site was
visited   and  the  group  was  informed  about  highway  allignment  studies,   road
construction, signing and use of computer and electronic equipment.
THIRD GROUP:
JUNE 19-JULY 6, 1986                          12 SENIOR STAFF AND ENGINEERS
12 senior staff and engineers, experienced in road construction and pavement
deoign,  participa' :  in  this program. In The British  Council  Offices,  both  the
"Program Briefing" and "Introductory Lecture on the UK Highway System" presentetions
were given to the group. The program consisted of visits to various companies,
research laboratories, establishments and motorway construction sites. While at the
companies and laboratories, the group were informed about asphalt plants, highway
design, slope stability studies and the latest techniques used in road construction
and maintanence. At the Nottingham University a lecture was given to the participants
about deflection measurement techniques and deflectometer. During the visit of the
Thames Flood Barriers, information was presented about the operation system. The
group  also visited  the M25 Motorway and the Leicestershire CounLy Council  Highways
Division.



FOURTH GROUP:
JULY 10-27, 1986                               12 EXECUTIVES
This group made observations on motorways, state and provincial roads and bridge
construction as well as the new techniques used by firms and organizations carrying
out these works, the use of computers and work management.
A briefing on Roads and Traffic in Post-War England was given to the group.
Detailed explanations about road construction and maintenance, and the use of
computers in maintenance and bridge design were given. Also some information was
regarding the duties and responsibilities of the Devon County Council and about  City
traffic  and  the   computerized control system for parked  vehicles.  Some  detailed
information was given, about the training program carried out by The Construction
Industry Training Centre in King's Lynn. The group visited the Number Bridge and
received some explanations about the bridge management.
FIFTH GROUP:
SEPTEMBER 4-21, 1986                                       12 ENGINEERS
This group, experienced in surveying and design, made observations on use of
computers, optical and electronical devices on survey and design, traffic surveys,
construction and maintenance of concrete and asphalt roads. During the visit to the
Leicestershire County Council the group was informed about the UK Highway System,
highway design and the bidding process. The group visited TRRL and got information
about the works carried out there. They visited and observed the works of London PM25
Orbital Motorway.
SIXTH GROUP:
SEPTEMBER 25-OCTOBER 12, 1986                         12 ENGINEERS
This group, mostly experienced in bridge engineering, was given some general
information on the UK Highway System &nd bridges at the beginning of the program.
During the visit of Essex County Council the information about the duties and the
responsibilities of the Council was given.
They visited various bridge construction sites and observed computer-aided
highway and bridge design at the firm that had designed the first Bosphorus Bridge in
Istanbul. They visited to Severn Bridge, Humber Bridge and Taf Fawr Bridge
construction sites and received some information about them. They observed the
manufacturing and use of Bailey type panel bridges.
1987
STOCK CONTROL AND FLEET MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM
5 MARCH-2 MAY 1987                                 3 SENIOR ENGINEERS
3 senior mechanical engineers attended a training program which covered the
stores management, plant depot supervision, computers ia stocking/materials supply
and control, utilitization of stock control by manual ok- computer systems, the stock
control system and fleet management system on computers, and transport management.
This  training  program was carried out as theoretical and practical  at  various
organisations and companies.



32
ROCK BLASTING TECHNIQUES SEMINAR
AUGUST 31-SEPTEMBER 11, 1987                       25 CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERS
A Rock Blasting Techniques Seminar on the topics of construction of road and
tunnel at rocky areas, fortification and providing block stones for various small
structures, quarrying for procurement of aggregate for bituminous mixes was carried
out in Turkey by the Swedish Company Nitro Nobel with the approval of the Wbrld Bank.
The first week of the program, consisting of the theoretical part, was carried out in
accordance with the protocol signed between Nitro Nobel and the General Directorate
of Highways at the Training Center of the General Directorate of Highways in Ankara.
The  second  week,  consisting  of the practical part, was  carried  out  at certain
work-sites.
Theoretical Parts
- Modern explosives and their characteristics, ignition systems and their field
of application.
- Storage and transportation of explosives
- Trench blasting, safety regulations in blasting operations
- Charge calculations for tunnel blasting.
Practical Partz
Practical studies have been carried out on ground vibration measurements-cautious
blasting in built up areas, film production blasting, drilling and drilling equipment
calculations.
This Seminar held about Rock Blasting Techniques by Nitro Nobel, which has a
market throughout the whole world, has been of great benefit to the Personnel of the
General Directorate of Highways.
1988
MAY 22-JUNE 17, 1988                                           1 SENIOR PERSONNEL
The participant attended en English Language Training Program at Texas A & Mt
University in the United States of America, and had meetings with the instructors
from English Department of Foreign Languages Institute about a syllabus related to
teaching english to foreigners, applied methodology and teaching techniques. In
addition, the participant obtained information on applied highway training programs
from the Transportation Institute at the University.
1990
IRF TRAINING CASSETTES
It was decided that the video cassettes prepared by the International Road
Federation (IRf) containing a set of 45 video cassdettes including Series 01-Road
Construction,   Series  02-Equipment/Maintenance/Operation,  Series   03-Constructioh
Inspection should be purchased to be used in in-service trainings in KGM and the cost
of the cassettes should be financed through the World Bank Loan numbered 2439-TU. It
was also approved by the World Bank.
Thus, an agreement between our Organization and the authorities of IRF was signed
on June 4, 1990 to enable KGM to purchase 45 Betamax video cassettes, in English, 45
master cassettes without audio, English texts, and the right to reproduce and
distribute 50 copies of Turkish Language Version within Turkey.
The total cost of the purchase was $ 100,000 and the amount covering $ 84,193 was
financed through Category-4, while the amount covering $ 15,807 was financed  throd*4 ,!W
Category-2.



33
V. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS:
The total expenditures for the training programs organized under Loan Agreement
2439-TU and the amount covering $ 84,139 to purchase the training cassettes from the
International Road Federation were financed through the allocation under Category-4.
In  addition,  the air-fare of the two group training programs organized  under
Loan Agreement 2137-TU wee also paid through the same allocation.
The  cost estimates (except the air-fare), the expenditures, the  air-fare,  the
total expenditures (including the air-fare) and the refunds related to the organized
programs are shown in the enclosed "Financial Statements"
The information on expenditures and disbursements for 1985 is shown in TABLE-2,
for 1986 in TABLE-3, for 1987, 1988, 1990 in TABLE-4 and for the total cost by years
in TABLE-5.
VI. CONCLUSION
The participents, executives and engineers, tak'ng part in the technical
observation trips obtained further information on highway design, construction,
maintenance,    computer  aided  applications,  laboratory  research, as well   as
construction and operation of road construction equipment, and prepared reports on
the above mentioned programs stating the necessity of the information obtained and
extensive usage of the below mentioned applications in Turkey.
The facts observed in the U.K. and mentioned in the participants reports are as
follows:
- Benefits of using computers for road survey, design, construction, maintenance
and signalization
- Paying close attention to the safety of nature and enviromental preservation
during a road construction
- Having applications considering the topographic structure of the terrain
during road construction
- Getting public opinion on new road construction and road widening.
- Having advanced road construction techniques, and observed the order and
discipline during road construction projects
- Having firms producing various materials and mixtures meeting the requirements
to be used for a particular road construction
- Emphasis given to construction quality control
-Mimportance given to road signing for effective and safe usage of the highways
during maintanence activities
- Using the highways effectively in accordance with the rules
- Applications observed at the training centers visited
Other points mentioned in the reports are that the groups taking part in the
training programs consisted of engineers having the same areas of specialization and
subjects of interest, hence; they were more beneficial. And, such program should be
based on practice rather than observation.
In,addition to the training programs mentioned above, a Seminar on Rock Blasting
was heWd, -ih' Turkey, which provided the construction engineers from different
Divisions with the information about products and application techniques based on
the latest technology.



K   I   L  0  1   E   T.  E   R
BIV2439-TU, MAWE Of C0NTRAC1S                   Place of "Km.0+000'"          %qinn    oft Project  End of Prodet:t Ttl Lenat
1- Ankare-C ICRE INT.-GE:RE                             Ankars(Junction of Et ve Belik)   102.750          137+300        34,550
nd  GEREDE-ORTA lNT.                               C&red                               0000             680W           68,100
2- Gerede-ORTA INT.      U     RN INT.                  Gerede                            68.000           116h000        48,090
3- Germed.-BEOUREN INT.-ILGAZ-TOSYA                     Gerede                           116+0O0           167OC     0    51,000-
4- Gerede-TOS.YAs     IK             Gerede                                              167+000           238.000         71,000
5- Serede-OSMANCIK-KERZIFON                             Gerede                           2380.0            308.000        70,000
6- Gerede-(AMASYA-HAVZA)INT. -AASYA-ZANA BRIDGE         Gerede                           318h00D           365+000        47,000O
7- Cere,d-DIYADIN INT.-G1BUYULAK                        Gereds                          1124+00           1215.414 *         ,414
8-  ISKENDERUN-CILVEGUZO                                tkeWnd.run(Bridgs of Akcsy)        04000            90+300         90+300
9- KUORLER-GAZIANTEP                                    KCmOrler                           0.000            68+000         698000
10- kkinmi Int.-SAKLAN-HA UR                            Akmn I nt.                       118+500           176.250        57,750
697,04liA
Total Alignment L,ngth of ICM Contracts
0



TROG IIUKY EIEAV RENAILITATION FWJECT
(Tt ICB 8ectinu which Une bm_ petUy finwd     UX       Kom 2439LTU)
BLACK                                SEA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [, 'I ;-
f                               lob 4t °biW_BUb                                           -
306~~~~~~~6
V  9   A         taa76j__S  
43                                             s.
I~~IA
I            MITERRA         SEA
_SYR _  -  2   IA             --             _



ESTsATES AND FAL EXP         OF THE  RaD EO         E LOTM  -3134U
KOM                        IBRD __ __, TOTAL
NAMECF7WVW               UNTUAL  S                   FALCOST  _N     CO          FINAL COST     NALCOST        FWALCOST
_f id Vaei    tFor 2439-Tt)
9AMUDEFE INT..GEREDE.ORTA WI.          10,010.822.54  12,523,399.38  10,010,822.54    0,408,639.58   20.021.645.08   21,932.038.02
ORTAINT..KROMUNLUMOB EN NT.             3.821.317.67   5,441,802.49   3,821.317.87    4,578,117.48  7,842.635.34    10,019.919.9
BELOMRN INTAEGAZ-TOXYA                  3,791.591.81   4,923.487.06   3,791.591.61    3.851.552.70  7,583,103.22    8,775.039.76 c
TOSYAOS4MANCK                           5,127,628.58   6,900,000.00    5.127.628.58    8.848.952.86    10,255,257.16   13,748,52.66
O&MMANCIK-UERZFMN                       6.779,06S.88   8,700.000.00   6.779.065.88    8.683,150.94    13.558.131.76   17,383,150.94
(AMASYA-HAVZA)INT..AMASYA.ZANA BFUDGE   3,465,379.82  *4,358,000.00    3,465,379.62    3,632,790.50    8,930.759.24   * 7.990,790.50
%IKEB43ERUtNAdLVEG0Z0                   7,501,773.07  *5.752,000.00    7.501,773.07   * 4.794,3S.U46   15,003,546.14   *10.548.385.48
DIYAOIN INT..GORBIULAK                 10,465,556.65  *7.213,861.94   10,465,5568.65 |   7,272.878.14    20,931.113.30   *14.486.740.08
KOAMORLER.GAZAWNTEP($                   3.896,000.00   3,898,000.00   3,896,000.00    3,247.160.12  7.792.00.00    7.143.160.12
SALAN-HIASUR     W4)                    2.168,000.00   2,166,000.00    2.166.000.00    1.805,45S.89  4.332.000.  3.071.455.89
ILOTAL                                 57.025.13S.62 *61.874.550.B5  57.025.135.6?  * 54.123.083A45   114.050271.2  * 1.0.634.30
The fial cost whD contnue to cwease as fe waut havent bean jopeted ,et,but the exp0U   wil be paid omo Ihe psu  Will not dn.
MPWW                  th~~~~*e Lom, 3324-TU
(+) These figue dow ody the part of the ial costs ad expedW  In h Loan 2439-TU.



37
1.   Related_Rank LOaNi  In additLon to this loan the Bank ha  f inanced tho
following Wojeats in the transport sector, two for railways, three for ports
and two for highways.
Loan             Projoct NO                 Year of  Amount      Status
0028  port Development & construction (1)    1950      12.5  closed 1954
0028  Port Devlopent a Construction (2)    1954         4.5   closed 1961
893   Railways 1                             1971      47.0  cload 1981
1741  Port Modernization                     1979      75.0  closed  984
2137  First sighway                          1982      71.1  closed 1987
2535  Ports IXU                              1985    134.5  closed 1992
2739  Railway  Ur                            1986    132.0  in progr"s
3324  State and Provincial Roads             1991    300.0  in progres
-                            -        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



38
2.    jMiset TSitMable
Date                 Date
Item                               Planned              Actual
Identification                       1/83                 1/83
Preparation                          2/83             2/83 - 10/03
Appraisal                           12/83                12/83
Loan Negotiations                    4/84                 4/84
Board Approval                       6/84                 6/84
Loan Signature                       6/84                 6/84
Loan Uffectiveness                   8/84               11/06/84
Loan Closing                        6/30/91              6/30/92
Loan Completion                    12/31/90             6/30/921
XJ    Three contracts will be completed under follow on loan 3324-TU.



39
3.   Loan R$sur mQnta
3.
Cumulative Estlated aod Actual Diabwrosents
(Us$ Million)
Appraisal     Actual   Actual as 9
IED Fiscal Year and Calendar            Ustimat        Total    of Estimate
Year Quarter gndL=_               USS             Ul.on    gM  . .JIL
PY85    September 1984                       9.5        0.0          0
December 1984                      10.0        9.42        94
March 1905                         14.0       10.62        76
June 1985                          18.0       10.62        59
FY8         toeptember 1985                 26.0       11.90        46
December 1985                      34.0       20.35        60
March 1986                         44.0       25.47        58
June 1986                          54.0       33.25        62
1112     September 1986                     63.0       35.42       56
December 1986                      - .0       40.64        55
March 1987                          4.0       43.05        51
June 1987                          92.0       46.20        50
ft    September 1987                       101.0       53.64        53
December 1987                     113.0       67.09        59
March 1988                        124.0       74.30        68
June 1988                         133.0       85.29        68
FY89    September 1988                     144.0      103.90        72
December 1988                     153.0      118.26        77
March 1989                        158.0      132.73        84
June 1989                         166.0      147.02        88
hPY90    September 1989                    171.0      158.14        92
December 1989                     175.0      160.30        93
March 1990                        179.0      165.80        93
June 1990                         182.0      171.32        94
September 1990                    183.0      173.80        9S
December 1990                     184.0      177.70        97
March 1991                        185.0      181.36        98
June 1991                         186.4      182.50        98
FY92    September 1991                     186.4      183.7         99
December 1991                     186.4      183.7         99
March 1992                                   184.3         99
June 1992                                    184.7         99
FY93    September 1992                                186.4        100
Date of Final Disbursements September 24, 1992



TURKEY SECOND ROADS PROJECT
120
100 CII___
80
60 S I I t   S<tt  128
40
2 - _                          _  -liiS
20-
0
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
SAR Estimate    +  Actual



41
4- -
Z4dicatore           .                                   A-t.a
Rehabilitatloa ot 8tate    279 kot & additll   c t stam          *0 km
* Rbad.I 195-, Investment pgogroth              .
Ya wsecific indicators are given in the BAR.



JjH         I              0
|St t .
II           It. -   4
ii-                         Ifi
aS
°I



43
5a. Projag  linaging
Loan Agremt _nt               -       _._._._.
At Signature   As Revised    Aount        Diaburesment
7 Feb. 1986  ftlly        Percentge
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ D isb u rs e d _ _ _ _ _ _
1    Civil  Works        _  __               __            ________
a) Pavement                    45.00          45.00       $4.12      65/501
b) Othe                          6.50          6.50        4.06         45
0) Ditumn                                     25.00       31.94        100
2  DuLipmnt & Spar                  105.70         90.00        95.28       100
Parts
3  Consultants Srvices                2.00          2.00         0.00       100
4  TraLnLng                            .S             .50         .58       100
_  P ello w sh.tps    _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
5  Initial Deposit                    9.00          9.00                     --
6 .e                                   .46            .46         .46 _
7  Unallocated                       17.24           7.94       --           __
8  Gain on SpcLal A/C2               .                           -.04        __
TO_ALS                        186.40       186.40       186.40
-                                          I
1/   Percentage reduced fro 65 to 50 in 2/86 to compenate for creation of
Category 1(c) at 100.
21    Gain ariasng from Foreign exchange trasactLons in/out of SpecLal A/C.



44
notnl 1991
At Appraisal  1983)WActual  Predicted  Actual
(1)                              (2)       (3)     (4)         (5)    (6)
1 Zekwnd$rn-Cilvegozu                   64.35    45.52   13.29          S019   2323
2 Cor.de-Tosya.Osmanilk                82.60    65.34   21.00          3257   2636
3 lymadn Ayr.JVDogubeyaait-Gurbulak   27.27    39.65    7.00             830   1430
4 Osuanclk-Nergifon                    138.42    52.74   19.00          4986   2810
5 Gore4e.(Amasya-Rwrz&) Ayr.-Amaya-
ZsAn Roprusu                        138.42     70.12   12.00         4986   2610
6 Ahkara-Camlider. Ayr.-Gerede ve
Cerede-Orta Ayr.                     61.66    82.29   31.76          4255   6449
7 Gbrede-B.loren Ayr.-Ilgaz-Tosya       77.36     75.36   20.00         2242   2568
* Qerede-Orta Ayr.-Kursunlu-Beloren
Ayr.-                                72.42     57.30   17.00         2247   2715
A/    See Section 6, Part 1 of text for an explanation of thls data.
AV    The figurs In Col. 3 represent the expected rate of return on the Appraisal
aeeumptiong. using the same VOC model (KDM III) as for Col. 4.
V     Ayr - road junction



45
7.   Statug of ggvMantUL
la  I             Conat                 Deadlino for            status
para _Compliance
3.02  Maintain proect team              throughout          compled with
3.0-3 xmpi.y consultants using Bank     throughout          not complied
3,04 Review investment plan and its     annually by Oct 31  comailed with
financing and projiet
Implementation with Bank annually.
3.04  Bids for civil works to be invited  throughout        complied with
after feasibility studies.
4.02  Maintain financial records and    annually            complied wlth
have them audited.



46
S.   VMS ofK I3fl Resourc
A.
stag of          N.th/    No. of    Day   a in    Type of
P"rpatLon         1/83        1         10        Trans. aon.
7/83        4         15        Trans.  oo.   -            --
&Can Otlf.
8/83        1         10       Msch.Ng          --         --
.0/83        4         15        Trans. Noon.               --
Nah. Ng.
Hwy. Nag.
Apralsal         12/63        2         14        Hwy. N-
Tran. Soon.
post Afprais"    2/84         2          9        Hwy. *ag        -          -
Trans. Noon.
supzvtsion  I   8/84          2         1S        Hwy. ng.        1          --
Trans.  aoon.
Supervision 2    5/85         2         10        Hwy. Nag.       3       Procurement
supervision  3   11/85        1         1S        Hwy. sNg.       2       Procurement
Supervision  4    5/86        2          8        Hwy. sag,       1          --
Trams. Neon.
SupervisLaon  5    1/87       1          5        Hwy. Eng.       1
Supervision  6   8/87         2          9        Trans. NCO.   2
Hwy Nag.
supe"ioion 7   11/87          1          5        Hwy. Nag.        .         --
supervision  8    2/86        2          9        Hwy. Ng.        1          -I
supervision  9    6/88        2         17        Nwy. Ing.,      1
Trans. NEon.
SupervLsion 10  10/88         2          9        Hwy. Ng.,       1          --
Trans. Ncon.
supervisLon 1i   4/89         2         12        Hwy. Jn.,       1          --
Trans. Econ.
Superision 12   10/89         2         15        Iwy. 5ng.,      1          --
Trans. Noon.
Supervision 13  11/90                   14                        1          -
superision 14   5/91          1          7        Hwy. zng.       1          --
Supervision 1S   11/91        1          5        HWY. Nag.       11-
supervisiOn 16   10/92        1          5        Hwy. sag.       1          -



47
as.      S=
(SW)
activity                    In. t
Preparation                          51.9
Apprasal_                            32.3
Negotiatlons                         6.8
Supervision                         104.3
TOTAL                          195.3
.



ESY~N&YU AnD If*L RUEUIUH       in gmE lD  ETNSin NLON23
(tit 1s$)
NA)U OW TME MM                    INITIAl amS    IEn" cost    INTIAL COST    VENL  OS
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ (Bid   value)   (Vow  2439-11)   _ _ _ _ _ _
CAWEIDER  IN.-GZIZD-ORTA inT.        10,010,823      12,S23,3991   10,010,823       9,408,64 .O. 
Ram  ENT.-IWRSUULUDKWUI T.           3,821,318       S,441,802      3821,318 j     4,578,111                 .:.
BXLOUN lmuluuk-. -            3,791,5S92       4,923.4871    3,791,5921      3, 851.5 S$mw-.R                 N
wam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10



r-rn
2    Buoenm If t        05-Ful-8   31-J"lI    04-Jn-8    127    IM8            49                                  7 
3    Tcsva-OuanI        07-Jl-86   31-Aug-88  27-Sp91    68         1906      1S0       23               go      493       1121
4    CamMer  t.         01-WOc4    1O-O6S   31-Oc90    14    1431             117       1                        43 "      731
_                      01Oct6       0-S       W-May-92   133    204           14        2              154       04       1311
e    Oli_k              14-e-67  31-Ju-0   24-Oct-91                1410       46       21              110      266       448
7    o0inl nt.          15-Apr48  31-Oct4    21-Oct-92    115    16S0          61       35               92      193       o11
8                                   1-OV91  04M794                             go        2,  _ i _ 3              42       186
-~_ -                               -         = = =                                           



