OFFJCIAL
UMENTS     LOAN NUMBER 2439 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                ,1984


﻿LOAN NKBER 2439 TU
LOAN AGREEMNT
AGREEMENT, dated            -'0- I           , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KGM" means the General Directorate of Highways within
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement;
(b) "Project Team" means the Project Control and Coordina-
tion Team of KGM referred to in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agree-
ment (Highway Rehabilitation Project) dated May 13, 1982 between
the Borrower and the Bank, as the said Project Team shall be
maintained pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
eighty-six million four hundred thousand dollars ($186,400,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the
fee specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four hundred sixty-four thousand eight hundred
thirty-eight dollars ($464,838).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%;) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
p!r.ent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿- 3-
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in       (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
KGM with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate proper coordination and
management of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain the Project Team with such organization, facilities,
staff and other resources and under such terms of reference as
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part C (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such con-
sultants to be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) review with the Bank, not later than October 31 of each
year beginning with 1985, the Borrower's (i) indicative plans for
the carrying out of its program to upgrade and maintain its
highway network through 1988, (ii) evaluations of the investments
to be undertaken under the Project, prepared in accordance with
criteria and on the basis of a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank, and (iii) detailtd plans for the carrying out of the works,
training, studies, procurement of equipment and employment of
consultants under the Project during the year following such
review, together with the specifics of the budgetary allocations
relating thereto; and
(b) without limitation on the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, ensure that bids for the works to be finariced
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part A of the Project shall
be invited only after the Bank shall have approved such works and
the specific highway sections to be constructed or rehabilitated
through such works on the basis of feasibility studies, including
technical and economic evaluations, which shall have been carried
out by the Borrower in accordance with criteria and a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-


﻿-5-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause all   goods   and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement   schedules  for   the  Project,  and  any   material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
to           tract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all nuch action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-


﻿- 7 -
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including,
without limitation, separate records and accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) retain, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
account on the basis of statements of expenditure and (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statement of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times cause:
(a) its highway network to be maintained and all necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
and routine maintenance practices; and


﻿-8-
(b) the equipment to be procured under Part C of the
Project to be maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineer-
ing practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, the Special Account has been opened in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date .9 -    . 14-, 114t       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of      Section  11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
Mithapasor Caddesi No. 18
Yenisehir-Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:              Telex:
MALIYE                 821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
HAZINE                 821-42689 (ANK-TR)
Ankara


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By/S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By IS1C Lo--v G   &     u4'ev-
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                                           0
(a) Pavement works        45,000,000       60%
(b) Other works            6,500,000       45%
(2) Equipment and             105,700,000       100% of foreign
spare parts                                expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
40% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'                2,000,000       100%
services
(4) Fellowships                   500,000       100%
(5) Initial deposit             9,000,000       Amount to be
in Special                                 withdrawn pur-
Account to                                 suant to Section
prefinance                                 2.02 (b) of this
items under                                Agreement
Categories (1)
through (4)
above


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    -to be Financed
(6) Fee                           464,838       Amount specified
in Section 2.05
of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                17,235,162
TOTAL               186,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 12 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
sCeDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its programs for 1985/88 to upgrade and maintain its
highway network, improve highway safety and control, and develop
institutional capabilities in highway planning and management,
all in accordance with its National Transport Master Plan for
1983/93. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Carrying out a program to construct and rehabilitate
priority highway sections of the State and Provincial
road systems, with particular emphasis on those sec-
tions which serve the export and transit trade, includ-
ing road widening, base and pavement layers, asphaltic
overlays  and   construction  of  new   alignments  and
bridges.
Part B:   Carrying out a program to upgrade highway mechanical
services, including the provision of equipment and
spare parts to be utilized in highway construction,
maintenance and general services.
Part C:   (1) Development and application of suitable policies
and procedures for pavement research and manage-
ment, highway construction and maintenance, design
and construction of new alignments, bridges and
motorways, highway safety and equipment and spare
parts inventory control and management.
(2) Carrying out a training program, including the
provision of fellowships, for KGM's technical
staff in highway planning and management.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1989
through   February 1, 2001                 7,170,000
On August 1, 2001                                7,150,000
0
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premium on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          .18
before maturity
More than three years but not                      .35
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                        .65
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                         .88
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                           1.00
before maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines 'for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to tha requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.    Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other, import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other ixpenditures incidental to the delivery of the


﻿- 17 -
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Turkey if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Turkey
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 18 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for: (a) earthworks, small bridges and ancillary
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less each
and in the aggregate not exceeding the equivalent of $18,000,000,
and (b) pavement works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of $9,000,000, may be procured on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of $34,000,000, may be procured on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of $800,000, may be procured on the basis of nego-
tiated contracts with local suppliers of such goods, in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification.
The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Bank in detail of the procedures to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedures as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments


﻿- 19 -
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each, and for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more each:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mis3ion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, or,
where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Spe-
cial Account, prior to the making of the first payment out of the
said Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 20 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (other than contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, or, where payments for such
contract are made out of the Special Account, as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Annex:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (5) and to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, on or promptly after the Effective Date,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Bank at such intervals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall
further so withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of the initial deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories
(1) through (4), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 22 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the initial
deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time that
all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b) when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and oi any special com-
mitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to
the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit, which-
ever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories
(1) through (4) for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be made only after and
to the extent the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making pay-
ments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 23 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and un-
less otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such amount
then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank ^hereunto
this          day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


