CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1253 TH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿I
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Telephone Organization of Thailand (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million
dollars ($26,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of su*h
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor spe-
cifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Guarantor and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided, for the purpose of
the Project, with funds totalling approximately Baht 1,150 million
during the years 1976 and 1977, on such terms and conditions as
agreed among the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek., in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any pub-
lic assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other char-
ges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guar-
antor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all steps required on
its part to enable the Borrower to implement, in accordance with
Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement: (a) STD tariffs by a date not
later than December 31, 1977, or such other date as may be agreed
among the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower; and (b) the meas-
ures necessary for the settlement on a current basis of all ac-
counts submitted by the Borrower to the Guarantor and its agencies
for local and long-distance telephone services.
Section 3.03. With reference to Section 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement the Guarantor shall review the existing arrangements,
including the working of the Joint Committee of the Borrower and
the Guarantor's Post and Telegraph Department, to ensure that
adequate consultation and cooperation is maintained between the
Borrower and such Department and other concerned departments or


﻿-6-
agencies of the Guarantor with respect to planning, development
and operation of all public telecommunications facilities in Thai-
land.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall enable the Borrower to meet
the requirements of Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


