CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1253 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿I
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Telephone Organization Act" means the Telephone Organi-
zation of Thailand Act B.E. 2497 of the Kingdom of Thailand pur-
suant to which the Borrower has been established, as such Act has
been amended by the Telephone Organization of Thailand Act (No. 2)
B.E. 2511 of the Kingdom of Thailand;
(b) "Development Plan", known as the "Telephone Economic
Development Project 1972-1979", means the Borrower's investments
being carried out under a first phase program (1972-1976) and
those expected to be carried out under a second phase program
(1976-1979);


﻿-3-
(c) "STD services" means Subscriber Trunk Dialing services;
(d) "remittances to the Guarantor's Treasury" means the re-
mittances established pursuant to the Guarantor's Cabinet Resolu-
tion (No. Sr. 0503/V. 90) of December 7, 1965, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and
(e) "Baht" means the currency of the Guarantor.
0


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six mil-
lion dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of the Borrower, or such
other person or persons as the Managing Director may designate
in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the proviFions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿I
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall prepare proposals for a
tariff for STD services and submit to the Bank for review not
later than June 30, 1977, or such other date as the Bank may agree,
said proposals together with a timetable for their implementation,
before submitting such proposals to the Guarantor for approval.
(b) The Borrower shall bill the Guarantor and its agencies
for rental and local and long-distance charges according to tar-
iffs applicable to all other users and, in consultation with the


﻿-8-
Guarantor, establish such measures as will ensure settlement by
the Guarantor and its agencies of all accounts on a current basis.
0


﻿I
AL-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, at all times, manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with sound business, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business and for the execution and operation of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, at all times, operate and maintain
its plant, equipment and other property and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encum-
brances.
(d) Except in the normal course of its business, the Bor-
rower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking unless the Borrower shall first pay or


﻿- 10 -
redeem, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for
repayment of the whole or part of the Loan which shall then be
outstanding and unpaid.
Section 4.03. Before the Borrower shall take any action to
create any subsidiary, the Borrower shall first have satisfied
the Bank that such action would not adversely affect the Project
or the financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain and as necessary
strengthen the existing arrangements for consultation and coopera-
tion with the Guarantor's agencies and departments concerned with
planring, development and operation of public telecommunications
facilities in Thailand.
Section 4.05. Before the Borrower shall submit any proposals
to the Guarantor for its approval with respect to adjustments to
the existing tariffs for local and long-distance services, the
Borrower shall first afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such proposals.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriatt
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fi-
nancial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any


﻿- 12 -
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges bn, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04, Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt unless
its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever shall be the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal
year on all long-term indebtedness incurred by the Borrower (includ-
ing the debt to be incurred). For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including any debt represented by bonds;


﻿- 13 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or agreement
providing for such debt is entered into, and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
is entered into;
(c)  the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take account of telecommunication tariffs in
effect at the time of incurrence of the debt even though they
were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which
such revenues relate, less operating and administrative expenses,
including provision for taxes (if any) and remittances to the
Guarantor's Treasury but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in Baht debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, during and after the imple-
mentation of the Project, take such measures (including but not


﻿limited to adjustments of its tariffs) as shall provide the Bor-
rower with revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of re-
turn of not less than ten per cent (10%).
(b) For the purposes of the foregoing paragraph (a):
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in re-
spect of each fiscal year by relating net operating
income for that year to the average of the net
value of fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means all telecom-
munications revenues, except dividend and interest
income from long-term investments, less all oper-
ating expenses;
(iii) the term "operating expenses" includes: direct costs
of operation, administration, overhead and adequate
maintenance expenses; straight-line depreciation
based on the useful life of assets; remittances to
the Guarantor's Treasury; taxes, if any; but does
not include interest and other charges on debt; and
(iv) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation,
as valued from time to time in accordance with
methods of valuation and revaluation acceptable to
the Bank and the Borrower, less accumulated depre-
ciation.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that the Telephone Organization
Act shall have been amended, suspended, repealed or waived so as
to materially and adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's
operations, financial condition or the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date September 9, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-17 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the
Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Telephone Organization of Thailand
Ploenchit Road
Bangkok 5
Thailand
Cable address:
TELTHAI
Bangkok


﻿-18-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
By /s/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative


﻿-19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Telephone cables,         6,200,000     )
associated plant                         )
and accessories                          )
(2) Subscriber facili-         1,500,000     )    100% of foreign
ties, associated                        )    expenditures or
plant and public                        )    100% of the ex-
telephones                              )     factory cost for
)    locally manufac-
(3) Trunk exchange             9,000,000     )    tured items or
equipment                                )    65% of imported
)    items procured
(4) Central automatic          5,000,000     )    locally
message accounting                       )
and automatic num-                       )
ber identification                       )
equipment                                )
(5) Unallocated                4,300,000
TOTAL     26,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-


﻿- 21 -
penditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase of the Development Plan and
consists of the following Parts:
Part A.   Installation of approximately 56,000 new lines of local
exchange equipment and associated cables and subscriber
facilities, to provide about 50,000 new connections.
Part B.   (1) Installation of approximately 2,500 lines of auto-
matic exchange equipment to replace manual and mobile
exchange equipment.
(2) Replacement of approximately 28,000 pair kilometers
of telephone cables and wires.
(3) Replacement of approximately 17,000 telephone sets.
Part C.   Installation of approximately 53 new long-distance trans-
mission systems and provision of approximately 6,500
channel ends for long-distance circuits on existing and
new systems.
Part D.   Installation of approximately 11,000 lines of trunk auto-
matic exchange equipment to provide nationwide STD service.
Part E.   Installation of central automatic message accounting equip-
ment and automatic number identification equipment for ap-
proximately 440,000 lines.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.    A
I


﻿-23-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1980                                     395,000
April 1, 1981                                       415,000
October 1, 1981                                     430,000
April 1, 1982                                       450,000
October 1, 1982                                     470,000
April 1, 1983                                       490,000
October 1, 1983                                     510,000
April 1, 1984                                       530,000
October 1, 1984                                     555,000
April 1, 1985                                       575,000
October 1, 1985                                     600,000
April 1, 1986                                       625,000
October 1, 1986                                     655,000
April 1, 1987                                       680,000
October 1, 1987                                     710,000
April 1, 1988                                       740,000
October 1, 1988                                     770,000
April 1, 1989                                       805,000
October 1, 1989                                     840,000
April 1, 1990                                       875,000
October 1, 1990                                     910,000
April 1, 1991                                       950,000
October 1, 1991                                     990,000
April 1, 1992                                     1,030,000
October 1, 1992                                   1,075,000
April 1, 1993                                     1,120,000
October 1, 1993                                   1,170,000
April 1, 1994                                     1,220,000
October 1, 1994                                   1,270,000
April 1, 1995                                     1,325,000
October 1, 1995                                   1,380,000
April 1, 1996                                     1,440,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24-
Premiums on Prepayment
The followi,ng percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and services
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule,
the Borrower may purchase items estimated to cost less than $5,000
equivalent off the shelf to the extent that the aggregate amount
of items so procured and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing
paragraphs of this Schedule the Bank will accept, pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph (e) of paragraph 4.2 of the Guidelines,
that contracts for the procurement of goods under Category (3) of
the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
required for providing about 11,000 lines of trunk switching equip-
ment, involving an aggregate amount equivalent to the amount al-
located to said Category (3) may be placed through negotiations
with the manufacturers who previously supplied local exchange equip-
ment at each station where said trunk switching equipment will be
installed, provided:


﻿- 26 -
(a)   that the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts are
acceptable to the Bank, and in particular that the prices compare
reasonably with prices which are obtained for similar installations
after competitive bidding; and
(b)   that any draft contract and any other document relevant
thereto which the Bank shall request will be submitted to the Bank
for review and approval prior to making any award of contract or
issuing any letter of intent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bioders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such


﻿-27 -
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thai-
land if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of 3uch goods includes a value
added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after


﻿- 28 -
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each
group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an
amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importa-
tion of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes ex-
ceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further comparison
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid
from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a de-
scription of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bid-
ding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank


﻿-29 -
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


