Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
D   a J  O  S  F  b  7  D            Report No. 9079-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 29, 1991
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of USS1.00
1986*                                TL     674.5
1987*                                TL     857.2
1988*                                TL   1,422.3
1989*                                TL   2,121.7
1990*                                TL   2,629.0
1991 (Januar')                       TL   2,961.0
I/ Annual Average
LIST OF AB8REVIATIONS
AFCs                    All.oiwable Full Costs
EACHH            -      Economic Affairs Higher Coordination Council
EC               -      European Community
FSAL             -      Financial Sector Adjustment Loar.
FWCT             -      Foundation for World Class Technology
GAC              -      General Advisory Council
GATT             -      General Agreement of Trade and Tariffs
GNP                     Gross National Product
GOT              -      Goverraient of Turkey
IEC              -      International Electrotechnical Commission
IEDP             -      Industrial Export Development Project
IGEME                  Export Promotion Board
IPks             -      Intellectual Property Rights
ISO              -      International Standards Organisation
ITD              -      Industrial Technotogy Development
KSRI             -      Korea Standards Research Institute
MLF               -     Matching Laboratory Fund
MSTO                    Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality System
NAC               -     National Accreditation Council
NATO                    North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
Nics             -      Newly*Industrialtised Countries
NMSI             -      National Measurement Standards Institution
OECD             -      Organizations for Economic Co-operation and Development
PIU              -      Project Implementation Unit
PTB                     Physikalisch-Techr%ische Bundesanstalt
R&D              -      Research and Development
SAL                     Structural Adjustment Lending
SBIC             -      Small Business Investment Corporation
SDC              -      Science Documentation Centre
SMEs             -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SMI              -      Small and Medium Industries
SMIDO                   Small and Medium Industries Development Organisation
S&r              -      Science and Technology
SPO              -      State Plann;ng Organisation
TETM                    Information Technologies Centre
TSE                     Turkish Standards Institute
TUBITAK                 Scientific and Technical Research Organisation of Turkey
TUSIAD                  Turkish Industrialist and Businessmen Association
UCICCE           -      Union of Chambers of Industry and Commerce and of Commodity
Exchanges
UNIDO            -      United  JNotions Industrial Development Organisation
UNDP             -      United Nations Development Program
VCC              -      Venture Capital Company
VCF              -      Venture Capital Fund
VCM              -      Venture Capital Management Company
VCMF             -      Venture Capital Management Company and Fund
YiK              -      Higher Education Council
REPUBLIC OF TtLtKEY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decesber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                           Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY   ......................................                              i
I.       INTRODUCTION   .........................................                               1
II.        THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS                         ..........        2
A.   Background   .......................................                             2
B. Industrial and Financial Sector Strategy in the
1980s   ...........            .................................                 3
C.   Bank Lending  to Industry and Finance   ....                    .........        9
III.        THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT   ...                             10
A.   The  International  Situation   ......................                          10
B.   The Strategy  for ITD  in Turkey   ...................                          12
C.   Conclusions   ......................................                            19
IV.        THE PROJECT.  LOAN AND CREDIT   .........................                            20
A.   Objectives  and Scope   .............................                           20
B.   Justification for Bank Intervention   ....                    ..........        20
C.   Detailed Project Description   .....................                            21
D.   Benefits  and Risks   ...............................                           34
E.   Project Costs and Financing   ......................                            36
F.   Environment Impact   ...............................                            38
V.       PROPOSED LOAN   ........................................                              38
A.   Terms and Conditions   .............................                            38
B.   Administrative  Requirements   ......................                           39
VI.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ...... .. .......                           42
This report was prepared by Mr. Oppenheim (EM1ID). Mr. Malas (IFC). Mr. Shetty (EMTIE) and Messrs. Hitchins.
Woodcock, Street, Mast, Rathbone and Lalkaka (Consultants). The Peer Reviewer is Mr. DahLman (ZENIN). The
responsible Division Chief is Ms. Nishimizu (EM11D) and Director, Mr. Wiehen (3M1).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



List of Annexes
ANNEX 1     The SciEntific and Technical Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK)
ANNEX 2     The Turkish Standards Institution (TSE)
ANNEX 3     Documents in Project File



TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:         The Turkish Standatds Institute (TSE)
The Scientific and Technical Research Organisation of
Turkey (TUBITAK)
The Foundation for World Class Technology (FWCT)
Amount:                US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Seventeen years including a five year grace period at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:       Metrology. Standards. Testing & Quality Component.
US$42.4 million of the Bank loan would be on-lent to TSE
as an income note with payments based on TSE revenues
over 17 years. Foreign exchange risk will be assumed by
the Government. The remaining US$14.3 million of the
Bank loan for this component will be allocated by the
Government as a grant to TUBITAK.
Research and Development (R&D) Component. US$43.3
million of the Bank loan will be allocated as a grant by
the Government to the Foundation 'or World Class
Technology.
Venture Capital Component. IFC will invest up to US$5.0
million in the Venture Capital Fund and US$0.1 million
in the related Management Company. There is no Bank
loan financing for this component.
Project DescriDtion:  The strategy of the Government of Turkey for industrial
technology development (ITD) has been to support firm-
level productivity growth within competitive markets
through (a) investing in the Metrology, Standards,
Testing and Quality System (KSTQ), (b) funding research
and development activities and (c) strengthening the
framework for capital market activities. Despite gains
made in these three areas, weaknesses persist
constraining the performance of the Turkish economy.
The project therefore has three components. The first
component will bring the MSTQ system to OECD standards
by (a) capacity building in the key public sector
institutions and (b) fostering private participation in



- ii -
the system. The second component finances a Foundation
that will use seed capital to catalyse private sector
investment in ITD (especially applied research). The
third component aims co develop a venture capital
industry by (a) estabiishing a legal and regulatory
framework, (b) rationalizing the tax treatment of
venture capital funds and (b) financing through the IFC
a role model venture capital fund and management
company.
Benefits and Risks:   The project will facilitate the outward-oriented
industrial strategy of the GOT. Its main beneficiary
will be the private sector whose technological effort
and consequent productivity growth will be stimulated
and assisted by the project. The project will generate
three principal benefits. First, it will catalyse
private investment in technical know-how. For some
firms, the project will provide venture capital for
innovative investments. For a much larger group, the
main consequence will be a MSTQ system that 6nables
improved quality management of existing operatiors.
Second, the project will strengthen the organisation and
delivery of public sector services in those areas where
market imperfections or commercial uncertainty result in
an under-investment of private resources. In this
respect, the project has focused on investment in MSTQ,
preempting a potential competitive disadvantage of
Turkish firms in their OECD markets, and on the
provision of seed capital for ITD in industries where
Turkey can develop a dynamic comparative advantage.
Third, the Project will strengthen linkages across the
different stakeholders in the technology community.
This project is financing two new institutions, the
Venture Capital Company and the Foundation that will
invest in sub-projects where the payback can be hard to
quantify and where failures are ar. inevitable part of
the innovative process. Nevertheless, the project has
been designed to minimlse these risks. First, the major
financial commitment of this project is to its lowest
risk component - the MSTQ system. This aspect of
Turkey's technology infrastructure can only grow in
importance and its long term significance will not be
affected by short term economic cyclicality. Second,
the private sector through their participation in a
National Steering Committee for the proposed Project,
has played an active role in all phases of the Project
preparation and implementation. This involvement helps
to ensure the commercial relevance of the proposed
operations and to build a culture of client orientation.
Moreover, the selected interventions which this project



-iii-
sup;f,rts have parallels in other OECD countries. The
design of each component transfers best international
practices to Turkey.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
---    (USS million)------
MSTQ                           17.2       57.0       74.2
R&D                           49.1        43.3       92.4
Venture Capital                58.0       37.6       95.6
Total Costs                  124.3       137.9      262.2
Financing Plan:
Government of Turkey           6.2         0.0        6.2
Private Sector Investors      99.0        32.3      131.3
Development Banks              4.0         0.0        4.0
TSE                             7.6        0.0        7.6
Multilateral Donors             2.0        1.5        3.5
Bilateral Donors               0.4         4.0        4.4
IFC                            0.0         5.1        5.1
IBRD                           5.0        95.0      100.0
Total Financing              124.3       137.9      262.2
Estimated
Disbursement:
91    92    93    94    95    96
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                  5.1  10.4  22.7  28.4  18.0  15.4
Cumulative              5.1  15.5  38.2  66.6  84.6 100.0
X                       5.1  15.5  38.2  66.6  84.6 100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             Not applicable
&R:                   IBRD 22207



'URKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
T'ECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Technology development is a firm-level activity that drives
productivity growth and international competitiveness. Firms that invest in
renewing their productive knowledge base and that compete by creating
specialised assets - technical, organisational and human capital - lie at the
heart of the process. It is their investment in technology development that
sets the speed at which an economy changes the basis of its comparative
advantage and raises the standard of living.
1.02      Competitive pressure from the market and the human capital endowment
are the two main factors that influence the willingness and capacity of firms
to increase productivity. Even in an economy where these two factors are
present, there are nevertheless a number of reasons why, from a welfare
perspective the private sector is likely to under-invest in technology
development. First, the field is characterised by extensive free rider
problems where measurement techniques, standards and reputation are concerned.
Second, externalities make it hard for firms to capture the full return from
investments in acquiring information and creating knowledge. Third,
imperfections and information asymmetries in the capital markets may limit the
supply of finance for innovative business ventures. The role of the public
sector in technology development is therefore to catalyse private resource
mobilisation for these activities.
1.03      The reform of Turkey's policy framework over the last decade has
fostered an era of rapid economic growth and structural change. Trade
liberalisation and domestic deregulation have created competitive pressure on
firms to increase productivity. Incentives to export have generated
opportunities for learning th;ough interaction with buyers and suppliers in
the international markets. Financial market reform is providing signals for
resource reallocation towards high productivity sectors. At the same time,
the rate of technological and economic change in the OECD markets is posing a
fresh set of challenges to Turkish firms. To build a sustainable competitive
position in the OECD markets, they will need to increase productivity and
acquire know-how in the evolving technologies of informatics, biotechnology
and materials development.
1.04      The strategy of the Government of Turkey for industrial technology
development (ITD) has been to support firm-level productivity growth within
competitive markets through (a) investing in the Metrology, Standards, Testing
and Quality System (MSTQ), (b) funding research and development activities and
(c) strengthening the framework for capital market activities. Despite gains
made in these three areas, weaknesses persist constraining the performance of
the Turkish economy. The project therefore has three objectives. The first
is to develop the MSTQ system to OECD standards by (a) capacity building in
the key public sector institutions and (b) establishing the mechanisms for



greater private sector participation in the system. Second, the project will
stimulate private investment in ITD by providing seed capital for projects
that generate business-urniversity collaboration. A third objective is to
foster the growth of a venture capital industry that can finance innovative
business projects.
1.05      Turkey's ITD strategy is at a point of transition.  Only a few years
ago, the core policy problem was how to create a competitive environment in
which firms would have an incentive to demand modern technological inputs and
services. Today, the problem has become more a function of supply side
weaknesses. If Turkish firms are to exploit opportunities created by an open
economic environment, the public policy agenda of MSTQ, an effective system
for research and development, and specialised finance for innovation need to
be brought into line with the most progressive elements in Turkey's economic
framework. In future years, the ITD agenda is likely to grow, incrrporating
the issues of intellectual property rights, extension services and informatics
policy. By providing technical and financial support at this point, the
proposed project can exert a positive influence over the future direction of
the ITD program in Turkey.
1.06      This report is organised in 6 main chapters.  Chapter II analyses
the industrial and financial context for the proposed project and summarises
the Bank's lending strategy in these two sectors. Against an international
background of growing public sector investment in national manufacturing
competitiveness, Chapter III lays out the GOT's strategy for intervention in
ITD and identifies the key steps required to stiengthen the public sector
role. Chapter IV provides a detailed description of the proposed project,
while Chapter V explains how the loan and credit would operate. Chapter VI
summarises the agreements reached with the Government and participating
institutions.
II. THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS
A. Background
2.01      In the 1980s, the Government of Turkey moved decisively away from
the model of import substituting industrialisation led by direct public sector
investment. In it.s place came a strategy to accelerate industrial growth
through policies that increase the efficiency of sec'oral investment and
enhance international competitiveness. The main instruments of this strategy
have been:
* market liberalisation to increase incentives for firm-level
technology development and to discipline producers;
* export orientation to generate productivity growth through
economies of scale and learning externalities; and
* financial sector reform to improve the efficiency of resource
allocation.



- 3 -
At the same time, the COT's own investment program has shifted away fromn
direct competition with the private seccor. Rather, the emphasis has been on
those infrastructural investments in transport and communication that are more
complamentary to private investment.
2.02      Perhaps the most striking indication that this strategy is
succeeding has been the export response of the manufacturing sector. A
significant shift in relative prices in favor of export industries coupled
with domestic stabilisati.on efforts resulted in a sustained growth of Turkish
manufactured exports from UJ$1.0 billion in 1980 to just over US$9.0 billion
in 1989. Studies of productivity growth before and after 1980 confirm the
improvement in the performance of Turkish industry. The trend of negative
productivity growth experienced in the latter half of the 1970s was reversed
after 1980 in both the private (-4% to +3.5% per annum. growth) and public
(-7% to +6%) manufacturing sectors. This improvement was not restricted to
the narrow range of export leading sectors (textiles, garments, leather
products). Rather, it has been a broad based phenomenon embracing industriss
which enjoy scale economies (iron and steel, chemicals, fertilisers) as well
as those characterised by batch production techniques (machinery, appliances,
ceramics). This Chapter examines the three main policy instruments employed
by the GOT and describes how the Bank has supported the strategy. it
concludes with a brief discussion of the challenge facing Turkey in the 1990s.
B.  Industrial and Financial Sector Strategv in the 1980s
2.03      The manufacturing sector in Turkey accounts for 1/4 of GNP, 1/8 of
formal sector employment and over the last decade has grown at an average rate
of 7% per annum. The composition of production has also changed markedly over
the period. As might be expected from the change in relative prices, the last
decade has seen faster growth in the labor intensive sub-sectors of apparel
(including leather), pottery and machinery accompanied by a relative
contraction in the production share of petroleum products, rubber products and
non-ferrous metals. Export performance has been impressive (see para. 2.02),
with the share of manufactured goods in total exports increasing from 1/3 to
3/4 over the period. Most of this growth has come from the penetration of
OECD markets.
2.04      Market liberalisation.  The policy regime inherited by the GOT was
one of widespread public sector ownership of industrial assets, market
intervention and a protectionist trade regime characterized by non-tariff
barriers. Although this regime had succeeded in generating rapid economic
growth with low inflation during the 1960s and early 1970s, the external price
shocks of the 1970s (coupled with inadequate adjustment) revealed the inherent
unsustainability of this approach.
2.05      Starting in 1980, the authorities implemented an extended
stabilisation program and initiated a wide-ranging program of structural
reforms. A progressive liberalisation of the foreign trade regime has been
the hallmark of reforms to increase competition and to generate a more
efficient set of price signals. Non-tariff barriers have been eliminated.
The tariff structure has been rationalised and average rates significantly



-4-
reduced. To accelerate industr'al sector adjustment, the Government has (a)
raised the financial return on i.vestment through the tax, incentive and
preferential credit systems, (b) improved state enterprise efficiency by
cutting low productivity capital expenditure and initiating a privatisation
program, (c) liberalised the regime for direct foreign investment (Box 2.1)
and (d) reduced barriers to entry and growth through domestic market
deregulation.
2.06      The private sector has responded vigorously to the challenge of
catching up with international competitors by (a) importing more modern
technology (both embodied in machinery and disembodied in the form of licenses
and technical agreements), (b) buying designs'l and marketed know-how from
international consultancies and (c) where possible, forming strategic
alliances with foreign partners. As Table 2.1 indicates, demand for modern
technology has jumped since thd early 1980s. Demand is expected to strengthen
further as a result of proposed changes in the tax code that lower corporate
tax liability to 10% for companies using or producing advanced technologies.
Table 2.1: Inflows of Foreign Technology (embodied and
disembodied)  -  1982 to 1989
1982  .... 1986  1987  1988  1989
Direct Foreign Investment
Permits ($)                         167         364   537   825  1471
Realised investments ($m)            55         125   106   354   738
Investment Good ImRorts ($m)         1940        34,0  3816  3989  3850
Foreign License Aereements (#'         25          76    94    76    74
Source: SPO
2.07      As Turkish firms approach the international productivity frontier,
the catch-up potential of foreign technical know-how will diminish. To
strengthen competitiveness, firm-level strategies will need to emphasize
complementarities between local ITD effort and outward-oriented technology
scanning and acquisition. Today however, private sector research and
development remains weak, as revealed by the 1989 total of 13 firms applying
for R&D fiscal incentives. Few firms have the in-house skills needed to
succeed in the local ITD process of adapting, capital-stretching and upgrading
their imported technological base. There is little systematic monitoring of
competitors' core technological competences. Total quality management is only
' in both "mature" industries (e.g., textiles) as well as "technology
intensive" industries (e.g., consumer electronics).



-5-
BOX 2.1: POICY RFOi AND WECHN(OGIML CHANGE IN THE AUTO INOUSTW
The Turkish Govemment has targoted the auto Industry as a leading sector for the 1990s. The maln policy
Instruments are:
*   liberal OFR roalmo to brlng leading Intomaeaonal auto companies to Turkey and create competiion for
dromestic iiceosees;
*   taflif harrnonisatio wilth the EC to make Turkey dn attractive exporl base for auto-assembly and
components prodtuction.
*   IncentIves to large-scale flial assembly operatlons.
The Govemmenl strategy relies on rapid expansion of final ass.mbly operallens to generate backward linkages Into
the auto compononts and matorlis industry. The most dramallc resuis of this policy are 1he I OYOTA/SABANC and
possible PEUGEOT/CITROEN/PPI/CUKUROVA lolnt ventures, each representing Investments of roughly US$500
million and a possible Initial capacilles of 100,000 p.a. The existing domestic suppilers are already responding, FIAT
licensee TOFAS will Invest US$320 mllilon to Produce 200.000 ot .he new Tempra line. RENAULT/OYAK another
long-time presence on the market, will also do away with revampod rodels from the 1 970s aWd Move to prodw.e
100,000 of the newly unveiled Ft21 model.
GM has adoptod a different approach. Investing In only a limied assembly operattin (10,000 Vectras p.a.)
as a defensIve market strategy. GM has used the experience to Identily and Integrate leading Turkish suppilers of
lectrIcal harnessing oquIpment, exhausts and textiles Into the GM (Eutope) supplier network. Turtey's advantages
(low wages, strong ,nglneerlng base, low EC tariffs) togelher wIth a major shakeout 'i the European components
Industry Is attracting other manufacturers. BOSCH (FRG). VALEO (France), ASB, AK-ZO and PHILLIPS (both of
Holland) and SIEMENS (FRG) have all made Investments, while VOLVO (Swe*n) Is discussIng body pats
manufacture. On the materIals side, Turkey's three largest steel producers have all announced new Investments In
sheet metal production to meet rlsirg demand for car bodies.
525.000.
500, 000-
400,000-                                                      ...
300,000-!
200,000- TOFAS/
FIAT
RENAULT/
100,000- OYAK
FORD
Existing    TOFAS/FIAT   Renault    Toyota    Peugeot/             GeneraL      1995-96
Auto         Expansion   Expansion                   Citroen       Motors       Auto
Products                                                                       Production
beginning to supersede more limited product testing. The public sector
institutions to support (a) applied R&D, (b) product testing and quality
assurance, (c) market intelligence and (d) industrial extension remain
inadequately developed.
2.08            Export Orientation.  The key to the Government's industrial strategy
has been the export response, particularly in the private sector.



- 6 -
Stabilisation accompanied by aggressive exchange rate policy, trade
liberalisaticn and export promotion measures quickly led to a large shift of
production capacity from domestic to export markets. The economy raised its
total factor productivity in the short run, rapidly increasing capacity
utilisatlon. Aided initially by buoyant Middle East markets and latterly by
successful penetration of OECD markets, exports grew over 20Z per year in real
terms and tripled their share in GNP by 1985. Industrial exports (especially
processed foods, textiles a;.d iron/steel) grew fastest.
2.09      Nevertheless, real exchange rate appreciation since 1989 and a sharp
reduction in export incentives have resulted in a plateauing of manufactured
exports at the 1988 level of US$9.0 billion. OECD analysis2' points to three
underlying problems. First, the regional composition of exports still leaves
Turkish firms exposed to relatively unstable demand from the Middle East.
Second, firms have enjoyed only limited success in entering the international
market for investment goods (the fastest growing segment of intra-OECD trade),
making commodity composition of exports unattractive. Third, the majority of
exports are in labor and scale-intensive industries that are highly price-
sensitive and pro-cyclical. Sustained productivity growth through know-how
acquisition and a shift into products that are less price and more quality
sensitive is essential if firms are to buil(' a competitive advantage in more
discriminating market segments (Box 2.2). Collective action (by the public
sector, industry and consumer associations, horizontal pre-competitive
alliances by firms) is needed to capture the full economic return on
investments in knowledge, reputation, information and human capital
development.
2.10      Financial Sector Reform.  The objectives of the Government's
financial sector program have been to (a) increase the efficiency of resource
mobilisation and allocation through financial liberalisation, (b) create an
independent Central Bank and (c) strengthen banking sector adjustment to the
real and financial shocks experienced early in the 1980s. Initiated under the
SAL and FSAL I programs, the banking system component of financial sector
reform has now been successfully accomplished under FSAL II. The introduction
of prudential regulations on loan classification, provisioning, capital
adequacy and loan concentration, the impact of the Central Bank in redefining
its role as an autonomous monetary authority, the severe curtailment of
preferential credits and near elimination of net interest subsidies, the
establishment of a bank restructuring institution and the formulation of a
strategy for the state banks all constitute radical change in the banking
system.
2.11      The Government is now emphasising development of capital markets,
today accounting for 10% of financial assets. The Capital Market Law, enacted
in 1981, together with subsequent laws and regulations, provided a framework
for their development. A Capital Market Board was established in 1985 to
regulate and supervise private issuers and brokerage firms. The Istanbul
Stock Exchange was reopened in 1986. Measures to stimulate capital markets
I OECD Economic Survey: Turkey (1990) pp. 33-43.



- 7 -
BOX 1±  TCHNOMGAL CHWd(E IN CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
DespHe the problems of ts owner (Polly Peck UK Ud.), Vestel has suddenly becowe Turkey's largest manufacturer of
electronic consumer goods and a growing presence on the global market. In an inlernatIona market where margins ae razor
thin, Vestel has managed to steal market sivae from competiors prlmailly located In the East Asian NICs.
WIth exports accounting for 70% of the Oirm's 1989 annual tumover of US$320 million, the key success factoms appear
to be:
g lcbaI Stratey - Vestel Is a key player In PPI's strategy to compete In Internatonal marlkets
*    Technoloav Acaulsnlton - Vestel acquires technology through (a) latrafirm linkages wth PPI subsdris SANSUI
and IMPERIAL. (b) InterfirM pa¶nershIps wIth GOLDSTAR and VIDEOCOLOUR and (c) consumer-supplIer
reatIons with IBM and AoIW;
*    Brand Muansement - Vestel Is graduating from Is role as a suppiler to OEM producers, and Is establishing Hs
own brand rcognitlon In seltected European matkehs
EstabUlshed ftims have also moved to duplicate thIs strategy. PROFLO Holding has now sold 20% of Its shares to
France's Thompson wth an optton for a futlher 20%. KOC Holding In an unprecedented move has entered Into negotIations to
acquire either of two German finms, MIELE or AEG. Al the same time. SHARP. WESTINGHOUSE. and ELECTROLUX of Sweden
e alfso stablishIng links In Turkey, hoping to use operatlons there as a base for expots to the Middle East and the USSF.
Computer
TV           CTV Tube           Hi-fi        Microwaves       Monitors
..... ................ ... .... ............... ................................. .
I  I                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Goldstar       Videocotour        SANSUI         Gotdster          IBM
Technotq   | tmpriat  ;   Impriat                 
Brands          Vestet          Videocotour       AKAI           Gotdstar           IBM
jioperiat  |   Vestet               SANSUI         Vestel
Markets        ULK              France         I  Japan          Vf. Europe       Europe
Itaty         Turkey             W. Europe    Turkey
! FRG      l                   |  Turkey         T. East
jTurkeyI1M
,.................................................... .... ...... ..........  . .................... ......
activity include (a) elimination of double taxation of corporate income and of
withholding tax on dividends, (b) introduction of preferential corporate tax
for companies with a wide shareholding base, (c) tax incentives for domestic
mutual funds, (d) internationalisation of auditing standards and (e) in 1989,
liberalisation of foreign investment in Turkish securities. Market
capitalisation of the Istanbul Stock Exchange jumped from US$2.1 billion in
January 1989 to US$18.U billion by July 1990.
2.12           Despite these improvement-s in the financial system, the supply of
long term finance for technological modernisation or development remains
limited.  Investments in technology development embodied in new equipment can
be externally financed via the on-lending of multi- and bi-lateral funds by
development, investment banks and most recently a small number of commercial
banks. Technology development that comprises investments in intangibles such
as process adaptation, product innovation and commercialisation, human capital



- 8 -
formation, software development or brand creation can be externally financed
only by the top 100 firms that have access to equity capital markets. Small
firms that produce knowledge-intensive goods and services have no access to
external financing for technology development. One result is that many of
Turkey's best technologists leave for more attractive business opportunities
in other OECD countries. The "brain drain" may account for as many as 25% of
scientific and engineering graduate& from the elite (anglophone) universities.
2.13      To overcome this external financing constraint faced by small firms,
the policy response of the Government is to establish a framework supportive
of a venture capital industry. One lesson from the OECD (particularly USA) is
that small entrepreneurial companies are an important source of innovation,
productivity growth and employment for the economy. However, these companies
often require specialised financing since (a) they are too small/risky to
raise equity funds through a public offering and (b) the type of assets (ideas
and people), the negative cash flow in the initial high growth years and the
lack of collateral makes traditional bank loans unsuitable. The role of the
venture capital industry is to provide equity (and quasi-equity) finance for
this class of small innovative company.
2.14      As yet there are no venture capital companies operating in Turkey,
frustrating the prospects of idea-rich but cash-poor entrepreneurs. In
addition to a lack of venture capital know-how, this has been due to tax
policies that significantly reduce the incentive to invest through venture
capital funds. In countries where venture capital has flourished, the tax
system places nominal tax incidence on investors in the funds (thereby
avoiding taxation of financial intermediation), and taxes income derived from
capital gains either at a zero rate31 or at the same rate as dividend income.
In Turkey, tax policy is not consistent with this model. First, with the
legal vehicles that are today available for venture capital, nominal tax
incidence would be on the venture capital funds rather than on their
shareholders. Potential shareholders with marginal effective tax rates lower
than that estimated for the funds would therefore be unwilling to bear
additional tax liability resulting from venture capital financial
inte~rmediation. Second, income derived from capital gains is taxed, and
moreover without any adjustment for the impact of inflation on the real value
of financial assets. At the standard corporate tax rate of 49.3%, the result
is that positive returns Dre-tax become negative Rost-tax (except at real
growth rates that are in excess of 100% per annum). Development of the
venture capital industry has become a victim of distortions created elsewhere
by the current tax regime and its interaction with high rates of inflation.
3 Theoretically sound tax policy would tax all sources of income
(including real capital gains) in the hands of the final beneficiary, and
would not tax corporate income before distribution to shareholders. Capital
gains should not be taxed in systems where corporate profits are taxed (in
effect, a withholding tax), where there is no inflation accounting for
financial assets or where taxation can be levied only on realized capital
gains.



- 9 -
2.15      The Government faces a number of challenges in creating a more
rational tax treatment of corporate income. Corporate income taxes are today
set at 49.3%, but nominal interest rate deductibility combined with a variety
of other incentives and tax exemptions generate a much lower effective tax
incidence. Dividends are tax-exempt. However capital gains are taxed on a
nominal basis except for gains on shares listed on the Istanbul Stock Exchange
(that are temporarily tax exempt). There are in addition certain tax
exemptions for reinvested corporate income. In the medium term, the
Government's strategy is to rationalize corporate income tax by (a)
eliminating tax exemptions and inflation-dependent tax shields, (b) bringing
the tax treatment of capital gains into line with that of dividends, and (c)
lowering taxation on financial intermediation. Implementation of this overall
strategy would remove tax constraints on venture capital industry development.
2.16      A first step towards corporate tax reform consistent with venture
capital industry development would shift nominal tax incidence for venture
capital profits from the funds to their shareholders. There would be two
benefits from this approach. First, it would remove the tax-created non-
neutrality between returns on direct and indirect (or intermediated)
investment. Second, if potential shareholders in ven.ure capital funds face a
tax rate lower than 49.3%, it would reduce the effective tax rate on venture
capital profits. This would help to offset disincentives created by the
interaction of inflation with the 49.3% tax rate on nominal capital gains.
The Government has therefore decided to establish a legal and regulatory
framework for venture capital under Capital Market Board (para. 2.11) that
will permit the introduction of this tax treatment.
C. Bank Lending to Industry and Finance
2.17      Bank lending has supported Turkey's medium term objectives of
restructuring the economy by placing greater reliance on market forces and
adopting a more outward-oriented development strategy. In the first half of
the 1980s, the main vehicle for the Bank's assistance was the structural
adjustment lending (SAL) program. Five SALs were made, ending in June 1984
and totaling US$1.6 billion. Since 1985, the lending program has focused on
broadening and deepening the adjustment process at the sectoral level, through
a mix of sectoral adjustment and complementary project lending.
2.18      The strategy for Bank lending to the industrial and financial
sectors has been to help Turkey (a) achieve greater macroeconomic stability
through focusing on key macro-sectoral linkages and (b) strengthen
international competitiveness by supporting the export and technology
development goals of the Government. The main instruments employed by the
Bank have been:
* policy based operations in the financial sector to improve the
efficiency of financial intermediation within the context of a
more sustainable macroeconomic position (FSAL I, FSAL II);
* complementary technical assistance provided under investment
credit operations to strengthen the institutional framework of



- 10 -
the banking system and to aid compliance of participating banks
with new prudential regulations (SMI I/II/III, IEDP I); and
the provision of investment credits (a) to small and medium
companies (SMI I/II/III) and (b) export-oriented companies (IEDP
I) to foster the growth of an internationally competitive private
sector.
2.19      As Turkey moves beyond the era of structural adjustment, the
question that confronts the authorities today is how to generate sustained
economic growth. The need to achieve this transition has been accelerated by
changes in the international trading and investment environment. The 1992
single market initiative in the EC, the paradigmatic shifts taking place in
Eastern Europe and the opening up of many Asian economies all create a range
of unexploited market opportunities for Turkish firms, but also a new set of
competitive challenges. Moreover, exponential rates of change in
manufacturing technology are rewriting conventional notions of export product
hierarchies by allowing firms located in the more advanced industrial nations
to compete in product lines where, in the past, NICs have enjoyed a
significant labor cost advantage.
2.20      Within an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic framework, Turkey's
ability to "catch-up" and to join the rank of industrialised nations will
depend on her ability to generate productivity growth faster than in competing
nations. The Bank's lending program will support the Government's development
strategy for increased competitiveness through (a) sectoral reform, (b)
enterprise restructuring, (c) financial sector deepening and (d) technology
development. The sectoral reform program aims to improve allocative and
dynamic efficiency through measures that reduce inflation, rationalise the tax
and incentive system, accelerates the privatisation initiative and improves
the business climate for private investors. Restructuring projects are under
discussion in strategic sub-sectors with particular attention to environmental
control and privatization. The financial sector program, in addition to
strengthening commercial banks' role in term operations, emphasises capital
market development (especially the insurance and pension industries) as a
mechanism to create competition for the banking sector. The technology
development program will accelerate productivity growth by assisting the
Government to (a) stimulate private investment in ITD, (b) restructure public
ITD institutions and (c) define policy framework for informatics and other
knowledge-based industries.
III. THE STRATEGY FOR INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
A. The International Situation
3.01      ITD is a market-based process that largely takes place in industrial
firms. Continuous product/process modifications and organisational
innovations, driven through an iterative exchange of information with
suppliers, consumers and competitors, constitutes the bulk of ITD in all
countries. At the same time, a smaller sub-set of firms invest heavily in R&D



- 11 -
to achieve more revolutionary technological breakthroughs. The role of the
public sector is (a) to stimulate ITD by encouraging private risk-taking and
(b) to help society capture the full returns from ITD investments.
3.02      There are 2 basic objectives in national policies and programs
designed to increase the rate of technological change in industry. The most
fundamental is to raise productivity levels and thereby welfare in the
domestic economy. A second related goal is to enhance the international
competitiveness of national firms by diversifying/sharing the risk of new
product and process development. It is perhaps this second objective which
commands greater attention in the advanced industrial nations and is best
viewed as a central aspect of strategic trade policy. In the major OECD
economies, the role of ITD interventions by the government is largely to
create a "first-mover" advantage for national firms and thereby to earn
monopoly profits in the international markets through technological
leadership. In effect, ITD programs in these countries substitute for the
explicit export subsidies prohibited under GATT.
3.03      ITD encompasses four main sets of programs/policies.  First, all
OECD Governments finance4'/ initiatives in applied and basic research for both
civilian and military application. These projects are normally located at
some mix of university, government laboratory and private sector company or
consortia. Second, collective action is required to support a range of
"infratechnologies" that provide a common tool kit for ITD. The public sector
therefore plays a key role in financing primary databases, metrological
capacity and standards development. Third, many govern'3nts are committed to
facilitating technological change and productivity growth in small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) through extension and subsidised consulting services. The
economic justification for these "diffusion" programs is that imperfect
information and capital markets constrain (respectively) the willingness and
capacity of SMEs to change. Fourth, there is widespread public sector
intervention in the capital markets to catalyse private investments in
projects with above average technological risk. Interventions range from
government guarantees5' through conditional loan programs (e.g., Japan) to the
establishment of institutions to finance ITD (e.g., Korean Technology
Development Corporation). The main lessons to have emerged are that:
(a) programs should be catalytic, crowding in rather than
substituting for private investments in ITD;
(b) "infratechnologies" generate a high economic return, since they
raise the productivity of all other ITD projects;
4 directly through grants and procurement contracts and/or indirectly
through the tax system.
5 The Small Business Investment Corporation (SBIC) Program in the USA
provided government guarantees (and securitisation) that helped finance the
venture capital industry.



- 12 -
(c) R&D programs need to be outward-oriented, monitoring the
international scientific frontier and developments in related
fields; barriers to commercialisation of R&D tend to be under-
estimated;
(d) a greater emphasis on "diffusion" programs is needed to narrow
the wide intra-industry productivity gap between leading and
lagging firms6/; and
(e) the public sector can take the lead in building partnerships
that reconcile the interests of business, labor and the
scientific community with regard to ITD.
3.04      There are three other aspects of ITD where public policy considera-
tions have emerged over the last decade. First, in markets characterised by
rapid technological change, companies are more aware of the relationship
between technological leadership and competitive success. In many OECD
countries there has been a renewed emphasis on the adequacy of the legal
protection for intellectual property rights (IPRs) and other trade secrets,
both cross-border and at home. One result is that IPRs are today on the GATT
agenda. A second related issue has been the role of governments in limiting
foreign access to core "technology assets". One aspect of this policy has
been export licensing for technologies which have a potential military
application. As part of a more broadly based strategy to preserve leadership
in the key sectors of informatics, avionics and new materials, there is now an
active debate whether governments should prevent foreign takeovers of national
technology "champions". A third issue is the relationship between anti-trust
and technology policy. Horizontal industry alliances in response to
globalising competition and increasing costs of product development are
forcing policymakers to reconsider the relevance of traditional anti-trust
models.
B. The Strateag for ITD in Turkey
3.05      The strategy of the Government of Turkey for ITD is to support firm-
level productivity growth within a competitive market economy7/. Learning
from the Japanese and Korean experience, the vision is of a manufacturing
sector that moves beyond cost-based entry tactics by first building core
skills in production engineering and quality management, and then creating
competitive advantage in knowledge-intensive goods and services. While this
process will not take place at an even pace either between inter or intra-
E and would also tend to shorten the product cycle by increasing
competitive pressure on the leading firms.
1 See also Special Studs on Institutional Arrangements and Training for
Technology Development: Republic of Turkey (IBRD, 1985, Report No. 5612-TU)
for further background information on the Ecience and technology sector.



- 13 -
industry, it is nevertheless the critical path along which all firms must
travel. To facilitate this transition, the Government's ITD program aims to:
* generate incentives for investment in product quality and in
specialised sub-contracting relationships by strengthening the
metrology. standards. testing and quality (MSTO) infrastructure;
* exploit complementarities between local technological effort and
foreign know-how by creating a system for market-oriented
research and development; and
* accelerate the rate of intra-industry technological learning by
establishing a network of SME extension centres;
The role of the public sector is to catalyse private sector investment in ITD
and to finance ITD activities where market imperfections or free rider
problems (para. 1.02) create a need for collective action.
3.06      While a range of public agencies exists to deliver specific ITD
services, the institutional mechanisms to integrate these initiatives remains
relatively weak. The Ministry of Science and Technology is only now beginning
to play a leadership role (as in the Korean case) within the government. The
Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey (TU)BITAK), although
reporting directly to the Prime Ministry, has a pronounced basic sciences
orientation and has been largely unable to fulfill the mandate of advising the
Government on broader ITD issues. The Higher Council for Science and
Technology (S&T), although established by law in " U3, met for the first and
only time in 1989. While the Government regards ITD as a fundamental aspect
of economic modernisation, the coordinating mechanisms which exist in
Government - for example, the State Planning Organisation (SPO) - are under-
resourced to manage this complex set of responsibilities.
3.07      The Government is beginning to address this situation through (a)
the Science and Technology (S&T) Policy Statement and (b) the establishment of
an S&T Fund.  In 1987, the Go ernment issued an S&T Policy Statement,
outlining the major existing and proposed initiatives in the field of ITD.
This Statement spelled out the principles of S&T Policy, the instruments
available to the Government and also an action program to correct a number of
the deficiencies in the existing system. The priority actions that the Policy
proposed were (a) improved tax incentives for R&D, (b) improvements in
Government procurement policies (both civilian and defence related) to
encourage greater local technological effort, (c) mechanisms for better
collaboration between the scientific and business communities and (d) enhanced
participation in international (EC and NATO) research programs. Although
certain steps have been taken to implement this program, the overall scope of
action remains limited. At present, the Parliament is reviewing a proposal
from the Prime Ministry for funds that would be invested by a Science and
Technology Board in inter alia (i) university-based R&D in biological
sciences, computer and information sciences, engineering, geosciences and
mathematical & physical sciences, (ii) an overseas scholarship program in S&T,
(iii) teacher training and materials development program in S&T (secondary



- 14 -
schools through college), and (iv) participation of Turkish researchers/
companies in international R&D programs. The composition of this Board would
include representation from TUBITAK, Yok and the Economic Affairs Higher
Coordination Council (EAUCC). Allocation of funds to the Board would be
reviewed annually by the EAHCC.
Table 3.1: Composition of Public Expenditures on
Technology-related Services Turkey
US$ million                              1987    1988    1989
Direct Financial Support for R&D *                 81.6    74.1    84.4
Indirect Fiscal Support for R&D                     5.9      5.5     5.4
Other Expenditures:
Metrology, Calibration & Standards              5.6      8.6     8.0
Extension Services                              3.0     3.2      3.5
Information Services                            0.5     0.7      1.0
TOTAL:                                             96.6    92.1   102.3
*Central Government financed expenditures at TOBITAK, the Universities
and other public research institutes.
Source: SPO, YOK, TSE, Ministry of Industry
3.08      The Metrology. Standards. Testing and Ouality (MSTO) System.
Industry demand for refinements in measurement accuracy and for rigorous
product specifications embodied in public standards continues to grow in all
the OECD countries. Leadership in the R&D intensive industries (especially
optics, materials and electronics) is increasingly measurement-dependent. The
thickness of micro-chip circuitry is today measured in microns and computing
time in nanoseconds. Future advances in (inter alia) informatics technology
will inevitably require refinements in measurement techniques and a set of
agreed standards. At a less elevated level, transactions involving simple
components - screws or ball-bearings - would be much more difficult in the
absence of an agreed system that (a) maintains the accuracy of primary
measurement units, (b) defines and disseminates standards for product
specifications and testing procedures, (c) calibrates working level
instrumentation against more accurate measurement units, (d) accredits
organizations that provide product, system and laboratory certification. An
effective MSTQ system generates a set of implicit guarantees regarding product
attributes, thereby reducing transaction costs in both the domestic and
international markets. MSTQ also drives incremental learning in firms through
the nested relationship between product testing, identification of technical



- 15 -
problems and process innovation. The role of the public sector is typically
to (a) invest where free-rider problems are present (primary measurement
units, standards), (b) to set up testing facilities in areas of public
interest (environment, health, safety) and (c) to establish an independent
accreditation process for product, system and laboratory certification schemes
that will enhance their information content to consumers, and permit the
development of a competitive market in these services.
3.09       Demand from industry continues to grow for an integrated MSTQ system
that can provide measurement accuracy traceable to international standards.
At the beginning of the export drive in the 1980s, firms entering the main
OECD markets rapidly discovered that their products, even if low priced
commodity items, had to pass certain tests and to meet minimum specifications.
In the 1990s, the "quality" requirements for competitive success are likely to
become more stringent. Competition from low-cost suppliers of Turkey's main
manufactured exports (textiles and garments) make it imperative that Turkish
firms move beyond cost-based "imitative" entry strategies towards the
production of higher value added goods and a defensible market position based
on a reputation for quality (Box 3.1). In addition to these market pressures,
the introduction of strict product liability legislation and insurance
provisions in OECD markets creates a legal requirement for exporting firms to
demonstrate quality against internationally accepted standards.
DM alt Or  ANAGEMr AM cm;v"InoiN 111E CERAMICS INOUW
Cermis and unyware 1 a 'matuM' idustly In wthch O£CD ompeton Is based more on produd quality and
design thn on Innovalion Alhu lalan coMpanies are Indust *edr, a numer Of Tn   ims Iing VITRPA
have arady sucede In entering expon markt VITRA Is the largst sanitaswae producw In Euro, produg 1.2
milan peces d wa and expomrn 66% d ouput VITRA already carries out basic stalistical technkpues for testing
product smp out a dt quay magem too at each stage cd pruction smgniy cosra pefmance:
*    t  Dal  Prtotyp desIgn ancf modef maldng Is llmfted by ladck c  CM technology.
Incrsadng devopment costs, sbwing down product commorcebion and adding to futre
manuring costa
*  Cav 00dirlon. Tesng Is canoed out of final product not of the green Clay bodie Techniques
for detecting Oa at tN green cy stae wotud sa ViTRA urnecesay flng and glaziw cost
*    n  Cealiness problems In the faetoly a0ow dut to "Wtle on tw glaz before WIrig, geneai
wastae and higher pru costs.
*  f. EquIpment to mnlo frng tempeatures prvkes Inaequate controi, adding to enegy coas and
Iin-i product fallure.
*        TestiM ng is carried ouA Inhe In an underutllzed and unacr.dited laoratory. Poucts for
exporl need to be retested In each export mare to donstrate cornpiance wilh OECD andards.
it VrA Is to Imp  it wwneona competvehs, Improvemnt am needed in the naton system 1r
quality mangment trainin  r fInbm ettlcaton to IS09000 standad and for _abory acatono
3.10       The Government, responding to industry demand, has already
established the basis for a modern MSTQ system. A National Laboratory for
Measurement Standards is being established at TOBITAK. The Turkish Standards



- 16 -
Institution (TSE)8/, an autonomous public agency with independent financial
status, has developed a set oi core competences in (a) standards preparation,
(b) product certification and (c) testing. Further testing facilities are
provided by the Small and Medium Industrics Development Organisation (SMIDO),
by the universities and within the large private sector corporations. Despite
the growth in the MSTQ system (which in the case of TSE has been self-
financing), its evolution to OECD standards will require three main actions.
First, investments in metrology and calibration are essential to establish
traceability for tests performed in Turkey against international measurement
standards. Second, an independent accreditation body is required to "audit'
organizations (both public and private) as qualified to provide certification
of (a) laboratories, (b) product quality and (c) company-wide quality systems.
This accreditation process, by removing the monopolv currently enjoyed by
public agencies to provide quality certificates, is central to mobilizing
private sector resources for this market. Third, an expansion of training
would increase the supply of quality engineers and inspectors, of laboratory
and instrument maintenance/repair technicians, of assessors for firm
certification and laboratory ac:reditation and finally of senior management in
total quality awareness.
3.11      Research and Development.  In an economy where the leading firms are
approaching international productivity levels, private sector demand for R&D
is expected to grow rapidly. One result, however, of their previous reliance
on imported technological know-how is that today, these leading firms face a
challenge to develop in-house R&D competence. The Government's strategy for
R&D, acknowledging the need to accelerate private sector R&D capacity-
building, contains two main strands. The first is to encourage private
investment in R&D through tax credits and holidays (see para. 2.07). The
second is to improve the productivity of public sector R&D assets by (a)
improving funding conditions (para. 3.07), (b) establishing mechanisms for
collaboration between the business and scientific communities and (c)
strengthening information-based research tools. Tne Government is also
reviewing the legal framework for intellectual property rights.
3.12      Turkey is today at the beginning of this path and exhibits residual
characteristics from an era when there was little industrial demand for R&D
(Table 3.2). First, the levels of R&D expenditure in Turkey have been
declining and are low when compared to its peer country group. Total
registered R&D expenditures in Turkey accounted for only 0.22% of GNP in 1989,
significantly lower than comparable figures for India (0.9% in 1987), Hungary
(2.0% in 1986), Korea (2% in 1987), Brazil (0.6% in 1986) and Mexico (0.6% in
1984). Second, most R&D is still financed and carried out by the public
sector (and universities). 87% of registered R&D expenditures in 1989 were
financed by the various public sector Ministries and agencies. The main
sources of finance are the Defence Industries Administration, TUBITAK and the
Higher Education Council (the public agency responsible for university funding
and administration). Third, market signals continue to have a weak influence
8 Annex 1 contains a more complete account of TUBITAK and TSE.



- 17 -
Table 3.2: Composition of R&D Expenditures
US$ millions          1982  .....   1987      1988      1989
Universities                        73.3          56.2      49.6     57.6
Public Research Institutes         36.0           29.7      27.6     26.9
Industrial Sector                  19.3           10.9       7.8      7.7
TOTAL                             128.6           96.7      85.0     92.2
Source: SPO
on R&D resource allocation. One recent study9' documents the mismatch. On
the one hand, 30% of R&D resources were allocated in 1987 to those 13 sectors
where the collective "potential use" for R&D services is estimated at only 3%
of total demand. On the other, for the 8 largest sectors which together
account for 64% of the estimated demand for R&D services, a mere 25% of
resources was made available.
3.13      The Government is taking a number of steps to correct these
weaknesses. First, under the Higher Education Law (1981), universities (and
TOBITAK) are allowed to establish Revolving Funds as a legal mechanism for
contracting with industry to perform research and consultancy work. The
revenues from these contracts are divided in fixed proportions between the
University Research and Equipment Fund (35%), university overheads (25%) and
income supplements (40%). Scientists can earn up to a 200% bonus over their
basic university income. Each university manages its own Revolving Fund under
the supervision of the Higher Education Council (YOK). Since 1984, Revolving
Funds have grown 20% per annum in real terms. However, the majority of work
is public sector funded with medical science the main source of revenue.
Private companies remain hesitant to develop links with the universities
because of concerns about (a) lack of confidentiality, (b) ability of
universities to meet ueadlines, (c) poor management framework and individual
accountability within universities and (d) inadequately specified Revolving
Fund contracts. Within the universities, Revolving Fund work is seen largely
as an income supplement and is not a criteria for promotion or seniority.
3.14      Second, the State Planning Organisation (SPO) is sponsoring a
TechnoRark initiative at five of the leading technical universities. The
technoparks are to serve three main functions: as business incubators for
small tachnology oriented companies, as a channel for commercialising
technical know-how developed at the universities and as attractive sites for
the research arms of larger corporations. The first of these technoparks, at
2 Promotion of Linkages between Universities, Research Institutes and
Marn,facturers (Report to SPO, 1989).



-18 -
Eskesehir University, is expected to be operational by 1991. To succeed, the
technoparks will need to (a) attract management expertise, (b) establish
strict entry and exit criteria, (c) be run on a commercial basis and (d)
develop strong links with venture capital or other channels of innovation
financing.
3.15      The Government has also focused on information services as a key
research tool (ninfratechnology") to increase the productivity of public
sector R&D. To avoid unnecessary duplication, centralised investments have
been made in on-line database facilities, comprehensive journal collections
and (to a lesser extent) CD-ROM information search and retrieval technology at
TURKDOC (a division of TUBITAK), at the Science Documentation Centre (SDC) and
at the National Library. All researchers have access to these facilities,
which offer an efficient remedy for local deficiencies in the technical
collections of individual universities and institutes. Specialised
information is also available through the Turkish Standards Institute (TSE)
(local and international standards, international patents) and through the
Intellectual Property Division of the Ministry of Industry (local patents).
In an effort to make sure that these investments are fully utilised, _he
Government is planning a review of the informatics sector that will inter
alia, analyse the scope for private delivery of informatian and data services.
3.16      To stren,then incentives for commercial innovation, the Government
is bringing intellectual property rights (IPR) law in line with the EC
conventions. A draft law has recently been presented to Parliament, updating
the 1879 (patents) and 1965 (trademarks) law, that would (inter alia):
* remove the exemptions on patentability of pharmaceuticals,
veterinary medicines and seed technology;
* rationalise the investigation of novelty process for domestic
applicants (introducing an inventive step requirement and
requiring comprehensive international searches);
* establish service marks; and
* provide protection of lower level IPRs, including industrial
design and utility models.
Parliament is debating whether the potential benefits of the required changes
(e.g., stronger incentives for local invention and cross-border technology
transfer, consumer protection through trade and service-marks) offset welfare
costs that include (a) barriers to technological learning through reverse
engineering and (b) the transfer of monopoly rents to foreign companies. The
Government has initiated a program to modernise the Industrial Property
Department of the Ministry of Industry, enhancing institutional capability to
implement the new legislation.
3.17      Extension Services.  As a necessary complement to the MSTQ system,
the Government is supporting the delivery of extension services to small and
medium enterprises (SMEs). Smaller firms, if they are to benefit from access



A 19 -
to product testing facilities, often need assistance at the next stages of
problem identification and process innovation (see para. 3.08). The main
public sector supplier of extension services is the Small Industries
Development Organisation (SMIDO). Established in 1983 with the support of
UNIDO, today SMIDO has a professional staff of 125, an operating budget of
US$3.5 million per annum and provides a range of consulting, information and
product testing services from 7 geographically diversified locations. A major
expansion program is planned in which SMIDO will rapidly increase its client.
base from approximately 4,500 small companies (2.5X of manufacturing firms
with less than 25 employees) to almost 19,000 firms (10% of the potential
market). Key issues that SMIDO must resolve include how to (a) raise cost-
recovery from above the existing 15X ratio; (b) maintain the quality of
services at a time of rapid organisational growth; (c) identify the
"progressive" SMEs with growth and fee-generating potential; and (d)
strengthen coordination with TSE, the t3chnoparks, information services etc.
C. Conclusiotns
3.18      The Government has made considerable progress over the last decade
in implementing its ITD strategy. A competitive market environment is
encouraging firms to increase productivity through local R&D effort and better
quality management. Financial market liberalisation is enhancing the
.'lexibility with which resources can be reallocated to innovative high
productivity investments. Nevertheless, weaknesses remain constraining the
performance of Turkish industry. In particular:
X the Government's ITD program is poorly coordinated, generating
institutional overldps and lacunae (para. 3.06);
- the MSTQ system remains below OECD standards, creating problems
for exporting companies and limiting the potential for
specialised sub-contracting arrangements (para. 3.10);
* research and development activities, funded 901 by the public
sector, remain largely unresponsive to market forces (para.
3.12). As a consequence, universities have only limited links
with business (para. 3.13);
* there is no innovation or venture capital finance (para. 2.12).
Many graduates from the top technical universities (the potential
class of technology entrepreneurs) leave the country (para.
2.13); and
* further actions are needed to stimulate the private delivery of
database and information services (para. 3.15).



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT. LOAN AND CREDIT
A. Obiectives and ScoRe
4.01      The objectives of this project are to:
* develop the MSTQ system to international standards by (a)
capacity building in the key public sector instit-tions and (b)
establishing a framework for greater private participation in the
system;
* make research and development market driven by financing projects
on a matching basis with the private sector; and
* foster the growth of a venture capital industry by (a)
rationalising the tax environment and (b) establishing a role
model company'°/.
B. Justification for Bank Intervention
4.02      With its struw.tural adjustment program nearing completion, the
Government regards industrial technology development (ITD) as central to its
strategy for raising productivity and international competitiveness. In an
economy where ITD is a process of learning driven by competition and market
interaction, the public sector role is to capture the extern,'ities associated
with knowledge acquisition and to ensure equitable access to the benefits of
technological know-how and information. T'c accelerate its own learning in
this field of public policy, the Governrc-xt has therefore asked the Bank for
technical and financial support. Bank iiLvolvement at this time can have a
major impact on the Government's ITD program.
4.03      Through a lecade of investment in research followed by operational
experience in a number of countries (Korea Mexico, Brazil, Hungary and
India), the Bank is well positioned to tra:ier knowledge and advise the
Government on best ITD practices. The lessonis of this international
experience have fed directly into project design, which emphasises (a) the
role of the private sector in ITD, (b) the talAnce between knowledge
generation (i.e., R&D), commercial innovatio.. kVenture Capital) and technology
diffusion (MSTQ), (c) the internal incentives needed to make public
institutions client-oriented and (d) the lintages between ITD and competition
policy. The Bank has been able to play a leadership role in catalysing and
coordinating international support (multilateral, bilateral and private) for
ITD investment in Turkey.
4.04      The project will also address a set of public sector failures in the
coordinated delivery of technology services. Public agencies (TUBITAK,
KUSGEM, TSE, YOK), universities as well as Ministries (especially Planning,
'° GOT preparation of this Project was partly funded by the Japan Grant
Facility.



- 21 -
Finance, Defence, Industry and Education) have overlapping responsibilities
for ITD. The Bank's presence has helped to facilitate working relationships
between the major stakeholders and to enhance the dialogue between public and
private sectors. As part of Project pre,aration, a National Steering
Commi-tee was established with senior representation from leading private
firms, banks and the Government. This Committee will meet semi-annually to
review progress on Project implementation and to advise the Government on key
next steps. The Project has widespread ownership in Turkish industry and
supports the transition from regulation to economic catalyst as the prevailing
mode of public governance.
C. Detailed Project Description
I. The MSTO System
4.05      US$56.7 million of the loan will be invested by the Government in a
total US$74.2 million program"' to develop a MSTQ system that meets OECD
requirements and also the demands of Turkey's evolving industrial base. The
Government's program for MSTQ development emphasizes four main tasks: (a) to
upgrade public sector facilities for metrology, calibration and those aspects
of testing where externalities and uncertain commercial returns deter private
resource mobilisation, (b) to strengthen the human capital base in fields
necessary for total quality management, (c) to reorganise the system to create
a more efficient institutional division of labor and a greater role for the
private sector in existing activities and (d) to improve the coordination
between MSTQ and the SME extension activities. Within that overall program,
the Technology Project will finance investments in three components:
(a)  the medium term development of the National Measurement
Standards Institution (NMSI) at the Gebze site of TUYBITAK;
(b)  the DeveloDment Plan of TSE, including the establishment of a
Quality Campus to provide training, calibration and specialised
testing in the Istanbul industrial locality;
(c)  the MSTO "Infrastructure", including (i) the start-up costs of
National Accreditation Council (NAC), (ii) initial programming
of the Professional Institute for Oualitv Assurance, and (iii)
a National CamRaign for Quality Education. The NAC will
provide supervision and secretariat support for the
Professional Institute and National Campaign sub-components.
This figure excludes the related investment plan of SMIDO which is
expected to equal US$25 million per annum during the life of the project.



- 22 -
Figure 4.1: Overview of Technology Devtoment Project
PROJECT  ICOIIEVT                       AGENCY                               ACTION
TUBITAK               ~~~~DEVELOP NAT IONAL LABORATORY
FOR MEASUREMENT STANDARDS
ESTABLISH QUALITY CAMPUS
(ISTANBUL)
METROLOGY                  |_TSE_l
STANDARDS
TESTING                                                      STRENGTHEN FINANCIAL
QUALITY                                                      MANAGEMENT, PERSONNEL POLICY
PROVIDE ACCREDITAT !ON
NATIONAL                       SERVICES
ACCREDITAT ION
COUNCIL                        SUPERVISE NATIONAL MEDIA
CAMPAIGN AND PROFESSIONAL
INSTITUTE
EXECUTE STRATEGIC STIES 
APPLIED                       FOANDATION                   l                    E
RESEARCH AND                    FOR WORLD CLASS
DEVELOPMENT                     TECHNOLOGY
FINANCE ITD CHALLENGE
|CAPITA^L NARKET BOARD TO      l
DEFINE LEGAL AND REGUJLATORY
FRA14EWORK
PUBLIC SECTOR
CAPITAL                                                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE TO
RATIONALISE TAX TREATMENT
OF VENTURE FUNDS
PRIVATE SECTOR/                 ESTABLISH VENTURE CAPITAL
I FC                      M4ANAGEMENT COMPANY AND FUND



- 23 -
4.06      National Measurement Standards Institution.  Established in 1984 as
a specialised division of TUBITAK, NMSI has been designated by the Government
as custodian of primary measurement standards in the key industrial fields.
Currently, NMSI has a professional staff of 14 who are supported by the
research expertise available at TUBITAK's Gebze Research Center. The
objective of the Government is to meet industrial need for primary standards
for 6 selected measurement fields: dimensional metrology, electrical,
mechanical, thermal and pressure, volume and, mass and optic measurements, To
realise this objective, NMSI staff have prepared a Development Plan that
envisages:
* an expansion of technical staff from 14 to 50, with a net
addition of 10 qualified staff per annum from 1991 through 1993;
* an investment in specialised training of US$3.8 million;
* equipment costs (including procurement consulting) of US$11.6
million;
* investment in physical infrastructure of US$2.5 million; and
* financial and management separation of NMSI from the Gebze
Research Center to ensure autonomous status in line with
international practice for metrological institutes.
The total investment in fixed and technical human capital over the 5 year
period is therefore expected to equal US$17.9 million (including price and
physical contingencies). The Plan has been extensively reviewed within
TOBITAK and by external technical experts from Physikalisch-Technische
Bundesanstalt (PTB)121 and from UNIDO. Financing has been mobilised from (a)
the German Government (US$2.0 million), (b) UNDP/UNIDO (US$0.3 million) and
(c) the Government (US$3.3 million), leaving a residual gap of US$12.3 million
that the Bank will finance. The public good nature of this investment makes
cost-recovery unlikely and it is expected that (as in other OECD countries)
the Government will provide financing to the NMSI on an equity basis. A
further US$2.0 million has been allocated from Bank finance to support
initiatives by new management to improve overall operational efficiency at
TOBITAK (see Annex I) and in particular, to address the existing constraints
on recruiting and retaining qualified staff. Total Bank financing for this
sub-component is therefore estimated at US$14.3 million.
4.07      The DeveloRment Plan of TSE.  The medium term strategy of TSE is to
champion the introduction of quality management procedures to Turkey, while
providing coordination and leadership for the whole MSTQ system. To implement
this strategy, TSE plans to:
w PTB is the German Metrological Institute and is the executing agency
for German bilateral assistance to NMSI and TSE.



- 24 -
establish a ouality Campus at the industrialised municipality of
Pendik near Istanbul. This Campus is to be a center of
excellence for quality assurance training and certification (to
international standards). It will also provide a complementary
range of calibration and testing services to industry. The site
already possesses basic utility infrastructure. During the first
5 year development phase, fixed investments are planned in (a)
training facilities, (b) testing and applied research
laboratories in the electrical, environmental/chemical,
information technology/electronic, construction materials,
mechanical, and packaging, and (c) calibration equipment.
Safeguards will be introduced to ensure environmentally sound
disposal of liquid and solid wastes that result from laboratory
tests. Total development costs for the Campus are estimated at
US$39.6 million of which World Bank financing is US$34.1 million;
* build human capital through a training program in the fields of
quality assessment, computer applications, supplier quality
assurance and product liability. Total costs of the training
program are estimated at US$3.4 million over the five years and
are to be financed by the World Bank (US$1.3 million), the German
Government and TSE;
* improve institutional effectiveness by introducing a modern
financial and management information system, and improving
personnel policies. Total costs of technical assistance,
hardware and software (including training) are estimated at
US$2.2 million and are to be financed by the World Bank;
Total Bank financing for the TSE component of the Quality Infrastructure Plan
is therefore estimated at US$37.6 million.
4.08      MSTO "Infrastructure".  The Government has identified independent
thirc. party certification of demonstrated quality as fundamental to the MSTQ
system. To establish the framework and foster the development of a
competitive market in these services, the Government has decided to (a)
liberalize regulations that limit quality certification powers to public
organizations, and (b) establish an independent NAC that will accredit
certification organizations (both public and private) against published
criteria covering integrity and technical competence. In July 1990, TSE
established the National Quality Council with 15 members (majority private
sector), representing all the key stakeholders e.g., Government Ministries
with major purchasing and legislative requirements, SMIDO, TUBITAK, the Union
of Chambers, the Chambers of Industry and Commerce, and the universities. TSE
has one representative (the chairperson) on the Council and acts as its
secretariat. The Plan proposes that by 1994, the National Quality Council
should be transformed into a fully independent NAC, and that by 1996 the NAC
should be self-financing through accreditation fees. Costs during the
Council's transitional phase for training, definition of accreditation
criteria, equipment and publicity are estimated at US$1.1 million and are to
be financed by the Bank. Recurrent costs (largely personnel) during the



- 25 -
start-up phase are to be covered by TSE. It is envisaged that by 1993 public
organizations (e.g., TSE, TUBITAK, SMIDO, IGEME) providing certification
services will be subject to accreditation procedures and examination, thereby
demonstrating the credibility of the system to potential private entrants in
the certification/testing market.
4.09      The NAC (initially as the National Quality Council) will also be
responsible for supervising two further initiatives under the Plan: the
start-up of a Professional Institute for Quality Assurance, and a National
Media Campaign for Ouality Education. The Professional Institute aims to:
(i) improve training of quality managers, technicians and assessors; (ii)
create a professional qualification in the field; (iii) track international
developments in MSTQ on behalf of the membership; and (iv) provide annual
quality awards. Bank financing of US$1.0 million is to provide support for
the start-up of this Institute. After 1994, it is anticipated that the
Institute will be self-financing through membership and other fees. The goals
of the National Media Campaign modelled after the successful UK experience,
are to: (i) increase consumer awareness about the importance of quality, the
meaning of quality certificates and of legal metrology; (ii) educate industry
about certification schemes and modern quality assurance practices; (iii)
provide public agencies with better information on standards relevant to
procurement practices; and (iv) advertise available facilities for product
testing, system certification and quality management training. A
comprehensive campaign is planned over 5 years and is estimated to cost US$6.9
million. TSE will provide the secretariat under the guidance of the NAC.
Bank financing for this sub-component is estimated at US$2.7 million.
4.10      Management of MSTO Component.  TSE has established a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) that (i) in the case of the TSE Development Plan
reports directly to the President of TSE and Board, (ii) in the case of the
Professional Institute and National Media Campaign reports directly to the NAC
(initially the National Quality Council) and (iii) supports coordination
between TSE and TUBITAK in the metrology and calibration fields. Two project
managers with international experience are being recruited to run the unit.
In the case of the National Measurement Standards Institute, TUBITAK will have
full implementation and reporting responsibility.
4.11      Financinz of MSTO Component.  The MSTQ program is being financed by
a number of different parties. The total cost of the program is US$74.2
million, excluding the investments made by SMIDO in the extension
infrastructure. The Bank is the main source of funds (US$56.7 million),
supported by the Government (US$5.6 million), TSE (US$7.6 million) and the
bi/multilaterals (US$4.3 million). The Bank's Project is coordinated with
technical assistance of the German Government and UNDP. Table 4.1 breaks down
the financing by MSTQ sub-component.
4.12      The NMSI (TUBITAK) is to be financed by a budgetary allocation from
the Government in the form of a grant. In the case of all other program
components, in which TSE has primary implementation responsibility, the
Government has designed a financial package reflecting the fact that:



- 26 -
Table 4.1: Financing of MSTQ Component
US$ million
Bi/Multi-
Component                 Aa-nk   Government    DI     Lateral      TOT
Measurement Lab #         14.3        3.3       0.0       2.3        19.9
Quality Campus            34.1        0.0       4.0       1.5        39.6
TSE Development            3.5       0.0        1.6      0.5          5.6
MSTQ Infrastructure *      4.8        2.3       2.0      0.0          9.0
TOTAL                     56.7        5.6       7.6      4.3         74.2
# Includes technical assistance to TUBITAK.
* Includes National Accreditation Council and Professional Institute
start-up costs, and National Media and Quality Education Campaign.
* TSE is self-financing on recurrent cost basis but that to finance
capital expenditures, TSE would have to take greater advantage of
its monopoly position;
* TSE provides unremunerated services to the public sector,
especially in the field of standards preparation for legislative
and procurement purposes;
* Standards Institutes in other OECD countries receive significant
public support for both recurrent and investment budgets'3/;
* the MSTQ Development Program contains a mix of public goods and
more commercial services; and
* other public organizations (especially SMIDO) continue to compete
with TSE at highly subsidized rates for testing and calibration
services.
TSE is also committed to an appropriate balance between its (non-profit)
public service mandate and financial discipline. TSE is establishing a
business development department (including the appointment of a Business
Director at Assistant Secretary-General equivalent level), developing a profit
center accounting framework and reviewing the profitability of its services
and products. Net of the NMSI component, the MSTQ Plan is estimated to cost
w The Korea Standards Research Institute (KSRI) covers only 38X of i-s
recurrent costs from R&D projects and technical services to industry. About
50Z of revenues (i.e., 19X of costs) is derived from publicly financed
research projects.



- 27 -
US$54.3 million (including physical and price contingencies). To generate
consistent incentives for TSE, Government therefore plans to on-lend Bank
funds to TSE as an income note with repayments of not less than 5% of TSE
revenue, with foreign exchange risk assumed by the Government and with no
negative amortization. The instrument imposes financial (especially cost)
discipline on TSE while recognising that the public good aspects of TSE's
activities make future revenues uncertain.
II. Research and Development Component
4.13      The Government's R&D strategy is to increase productivity in the
public sector while encouraging greater private R&D effort (see para. 3.08).
The project will help to implement this strategy by establishing an
independent Foundation that will bridge the business and scientific
communities by providing seed capital for:
* Strategic Studies on the competitiveness of key Turkish
industries vis-a-vis economic and technological changes occurring
in the international marketplace (100% grant finance);
- ITD Challenge Programs between universities and business, whose
aim is to build local technological capacity especially in those
areas identified by the strategic studies.  The content of this
program (although not to be prescribed prior to the studies) is
likely to involve a mix of applied research, development of
training programs, establishment of information services,
industry-wide investments in MSTQ facilities, international joint
ventures for technology transfer etc. The Foundation would
provide a mix of grants, income notes and conditional loans that
match the private sector contribution.
4.14      Strategic Studies.  An important role for the Foundation is to act
as one of Turkey's "windows on the world", helping both firms and policymakers
anticipate the impact of technological change. The first phase of strategic
studies focuses on 6 main fields:
* export prospects for the auto-components industry;
* competition in the OECD textiles industry post the Uruguay Round;
* technological spin-offs from the defence industry;
* energy conservation technology needs in Turkish industry;
* opportunities in the European consumer electronics industry; and
* key issues in R&D; including intellectual property rights,
scientific manpower and facilities/equipment audit.
An initial set of outline papers is due to be delivered in 1991. These will
provide the framework for a more detailed set of sub-sector studies. In
addition, it is proposed that TSE will complete a study during 1991 on the
potential for the Foundation to provide matching finance to industrial
associations for investments in cooperative testing facilities, certification
schemes and quality management training courses.



- 28 -
4.15      Technology Challenge Programs.  The Foundation is to provide seed
capital for projects that develop Turkey's technology infrastructure,
preferably through collaboration between private sector and the research
establishment. Applicants must demonstrate that the proposed projects (a)
will meet identifiable market needs, (b) possess scientific and technical
merit, (c) have qualified personnel and (d) enjoy significant financial
support from the private sector. Preference will be given to projects that
fall within the fields of special emphasis and that have consortia backing'4/.
The Challenge Program provides the Foundation with the flexibility to support
a range of ITD initiatives outside applied R&D. In particular, the Foundation
aims to broker (and at times invest in) joint ventures between international
contract research organisations and local groups.
4.16      The Foundation is able to employ a full range of debt, equity and
quasi-equity financing instruments. Projects will normally be financed on a
conditional loan basis where repayments are tied to the s;uccess of the
project. In exceptional cases where, for example, the Foundation retains all
the intellectual property rights generated by the project, grant financing
will be available. Following the European model, the Fou.idation will finance
an agreed percent of the "allowable full costs" (in the case of private
participants) or 100% of "marginal costs" (in the case of research institutes
or universities. Allowable full costs (AFCs) are defined to include direct
labor costs, expenses, external assistance (including sub-contracts),
depreciation on equipment and overheads calculated in accordance with
principles acceptable to the Foundation. Marginal costs are similar to AFCs
except that (a) in the direct labor category, only incremental labor expenses
are permitted and (b) overhead charges are fixed at 20%. Contracts between
the Foundation and universities/research institutes will therefore not be
subject to Revolving Fund regulations (para. 3.13) that specify mandatory
contributions to University Research and Equipment Funds.
4.17      Management and Institutional Structure.  The Foundation has been
structured as a "vakif" that under Turkish law, is equivalent to a non-profit
organisation and is tax-exempt. The highest decision-making body of the
Foundation is the Constitutive Assembly, which acts as a Board of Trustees and
meets a minimum of once a year. The members of the Constitutive Assembly have
been selected on the basis of financial contribution to the vakif and are
drawn mainly from private sector. At a more operational level, decisions are
taken by the 9 member Executive Committee. Three members of the Executive
Committee are appointed under the Foundation's Articles of Incorporation and
represent Treasury, TUBITAK and the Union of Chambers. Five members of the
Executive Committee are elected by the Constitutive Assembly and are therefore
drawn from the private sector. The Executive Committee is responsible for (a)
translating the strategic study results into operational guidelines for the
Foundation's activities, (b) approving research programs over the US$50,000
level, leaving operational responsibilities and smaller projects to the staff,
(c) monitoring the performance of the Foundation against financial and
4 since consortia projects are more likely to be pre-competitive in
nature and generate greater externalities.



- 29 -
technical evaluation criteria, and (d) auditing and reporting requirements.
The Foundation will have a Secretary-General (responsible for managing
operations including personnel and budget functions) and a small staff,
initially comprising 3 professional and 2 support personnel, with a mix of
business, scientific and legal backgrounds. The staff is responsible for (a)
identifying programs, (b) facilitating and evaluating proposals with the help
of external peer review committees, (c) negotiating contracts between
participants and the Foundation, (d) monitoring the projects, (e) establishing
and defending intellectual property rights emerging from the program, (f)
designing operational procedures and (f) developing the revenue stream of the
Foundation.
4.18      The Foundation will adopt an active approach to its portfolio of
projects, offering management reviews on a regular basis and enforcing the
parties' contract. For each project, there will be major milestones after 3
months and then at the end of the first year at which point a decision will be
taken regarding second year funding. The Executive Committee will review each
project (greater than US$50,000) at the time of grant negotiation, at the
first year review and at the end of the project. On an exception basis,
further funding (25%) might be available in Year 3.
4.19      Financing the Foundation.  Total financing requirements of the
Foundation are estimated at US$50.6 million over the first 5 years (see Table
4.2). High initial expenditures on the strategic studies (which peak in 1993)
are used to establish the basic framework for the technology action program,
which builds up over the first 3 years to reach a stable portfolio of between
22 and 24 live projects (12 new projects each year with an average project
duration of 24 months) by 1995. The major sources of funds will be IBRD
(US$43.3 million), private sector contributions to the seed capital of the
"vakif" (US$1.0 million), grants from bi/multilateral donors (US$3.7 million)
and income generated by the Foundation itself (US$1.7 million). Internally
generated revenues are expected to grow in importance with the long-term aim
that the Foundation be self-financing through (a) licencing of intellectual
property vested in the Foundation, (b) management fees and (c) specially
commissioned studies and strategic/policy advice. Until the Foundation is in
a position to cover overheads, TUBITAK has agreed to provide accommodation and
other material support to reduce the burden of administrative costs.
The Government will also ensure the tax-exempt status of the Foundation
immediately upon the Foundation's satisfaction of the legal requirements
according to the Law for Foundations. Total component costs, assuming
matching private sector contributions to the Challenge Programs, would be
US$92.4 million.
III. Venture Capital COmRonent
4.20      There is a large potential market for venture capital finance in
Turkey. First, deregulation of domestic markets has significantly reduced
barriers to entry and growth. The number of private firms entering the market
more than doubled from 6,340 in 1981 to 14,882 in 1989, with the sharpest
increase in the manufacturing sector (1,275 to 3,871). Second, the pool of
engineers and scientists (especially in electronics, computer sciences) is



- 30 -
Table 4.2: Sources and Use of Foundation Funds
1991 to 1996 (CYs) US$ current million
1991   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
Uses:
Start-up Costs                   0.2   0,2    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Administration Costs             0.2   0.5    0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9
Strategic Studies                0.3   0.4    1.5   1.1   0.6   0.6
Challenge Grants                 0.0   3.6    6.8   9.7  10.6  10.9
TOTAL                            0.7   4.7    9.2  11.7  12.1  12.4
Sources:
Government
Own Resources                 0.2   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
IBRD Resources                0.3   4.2    8.3  10.2  10.3  10.3
Private Sector                   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3
Bi & Multi-laterals              0.1   0.2    0.5   0.9   1.0   1.0
Internal Funds                  0.0   0.1    0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7
TOTAL                            0.7   4.7    9.2  11.7  12.1  12.4
Note:  Real Expenditures stabilise at 1996 levels
Source: IBRD/TUBITAK Estimates
growing rapidly. University enrollment in scientific fields (excluding
medicine) is estimated at 116,000 in 1987. The total number of graduate
engineers is estimated at 159,000 (1989). Third, market surveys revealed an
existing pipeline of possible deals for the proposed VCC in a range of sub-
sectors with significant foreign exchange earning potential (electronics and
software, tourism services, control equipment, precision instruments, telecom
components, business consultancy). Many of the potential clients for the VCC
appear willing to make the tradeoff between internal control and external
equity financing. However, despite the market opportunity, the supply of
venture capital finance appears to be constrained by tax considerations, the
existing legal framework and lack of know-how.
4.21      The Government has identified the growth of a venture capital
industry as central to its financial sector strategy for ITD (see para. 2.13).
Accordingly, the Project will help to catalyse the industry by:
* defining a legal and regulatory structure for the venture capital
industry under the amended Capital Market Board Law;



- 31 -
* providing appropriate tax treatment for venture capital funds
that overcomes tax-related disincentives to venture capital
financial intermediation; and
* establishing a private Yenture capital company and fund (VCCF) to
act inter alia as a role model for the industry.
The Bank and IFC are providing joint assistance to the Government on this
component. The role of the Bank (with the support of IFC) has been to (a)
provide advice to the Government on legal, tax and regulatory aspects of
venture capital, (b) to assist in the market analysis and identification of
technology-oriented deals. The proposed regulatory and tax changes provide an
opportunity for IFC, as a shareholder in the Fund and Management Company
(para. 4.21) and together with a foreign technical partner, to transfer
venture capital know-how to Turkey.
4.22      Legal and Regulatory Structure.  To accelerate healthy development
of the venture capital industry, the Government has decided to introduce a
regulatory and legal framework for the industry consistent with the model in
other European countries (notably Spain and Portugal). Capital Market Board
is responsible for supervising the industry, and has prepared draft guidelines
that:
* define a legal structure for the industry based on a separation
of venture capital management companies from venture capital
funds;
* with regard to the management companies, specify the legal
structure, minimum capitalization and minimum qualifications for
venture capital fund managers;
* with regard to the funds, specify the legal structure (modified
from the legal vehicle for mutual funds), minimum size of fund,
minimum number of shareholders, minimum investment per
shareholder, minimum and maximum life of funds, acceptable
changes in shareholding structure, and "firewalls" between the
fund shareholders and the fund portfolio companies;
* with regard to Rortfolio management, specify prudential
guidelines for allocation of fund assets, and for reinvestment of
realised profits;
* define registration. reporting and auditing requirements; and
* regulate the relationship between the management companies and
funds, including fee structures/incentive packages for the
management companies, contract termination provisions and fund
draw-down agreements;
After further revision and consultation with the financial community, these
Guidelines are due to be issued officially in the first quarter of 1991.



- 32 -
4.23      Tax Treatment of Venture Capital Funds and Management Comparnies.
Management Companies under the draft regulations will be structured as "anonym
sirket" companies under the commercial code, and will be subject to standard
tax treatment for corporate income.  For Venture Capital Funds registered with
the Capital Market Board (and in full compliance with the regulations), the
proposal of the Ministry of Finance is that they will not be subject to tax.
Rather, tax incidence will be shifted from the Funds to the shareholders in
the Funds at the time that income is realized and distributed. This tax
"pass-through" treatment will be consistent with that for venture capital in
other OECD countries, and also with that proposed for similar financial
vehicles (e.g., mutual funds) in Turkey. Although not correcting for the
asymmetric treatment of dividend and capital gains income, tax pass-through
for venture capital funds has benefits (see para. 2.14) of (i) eliminating
distortionary taxation of venture capital financial intermediation, and (ii)
allowing shareholders maximum control over their own tax strategies. Legal
and real personalities (both domestic and foreign) that have a marginal
effective tax rate significantly lower than the standard 49.3% will therefore
be able to minimize (to some extent) the adverse impact on capital gains
income that results from the interaction of high inflation with the corporate
income tax regime.   A tax amendment has been drafted by the Ministry of
Finance, and will be presented to the legislature upon Issuance of Regulations
for the Venture Capital Industry by Capital Market Board.
4.24      Venture Capital Company and Fund (VCMF).  In accordance with the
proposed regulations, the VCMF has been structured on a two-tier basis. An
independent venture capital management company (the VCM) will manage for a fee
a closed-end venture capital fund (the VCF). The IFC is the only common
shareholder in both the VCM and the VCF. This two-tiered structure is widely
practiced in the venture capital industry. Its main justification is that it
mitigates the risk that larger shareholders in the Fund might have undue
influence over the portfolio decisions of the management.
4.25      Shareholders in the VCM are the IFC, a leading international venture
capital management company and the local management team. The total equity of
the VCC is estimated at US$0.6 million. The VCM will have a small staff (4
professionals) to identify, evaluate and structure deals as well as providing
managerial support to the portfolio companies. The foreign technical partner
is training staff in best practice appraisal and valuation techniques.
Compensation for the VCM is market-driven and is estimated at (a) an annual
fee of 3% for the first US$30.0 million of the VCF and 2% of VCF funds
thereafter, and (b) carried interest'1l of 20% of the VCF's net returns.
Shareholders in the VCC will receive a share of carried interest pro rata
their equity stake in the Company. These terms are in line with standard
international practice.
'5 Carried interest is defined as the net proceeds of the Venture
Capital Fund once the initial capitalisation of the Fund (inflation adjusted)
has been returned to Fund shareholders.



- 33 -
4.26      The VCF has been structured as an investment fund under the
regulations of the Capital Market Board with (as part of the Shareholders'
Agreement) a limited life of 8 years and restrictions on the transfer of
shares to (a) reflect the illiquidity of the investments and (b) maintain a
balanced shareholder group. Conservative projections suggest that the demand
for equity finance over the first three years of the VCF's life would be a
minimum of US$40.0 million with a draw-down schedule of 40%, 30% and 30%. The
main shareholders in the VCF are expected to be (a) IFC (US$5.0 million), (b)
other international investors (US$11.0 million), (c) Turkish private sector
(US$20.0 million), and (d) the Development Banks (US$4.0 million). Annual
management fees will be paid in at the beginning of each year with remaining
VCF shareholder funds calleable in line with portfolio financing requirements.
4.27      The funds will be invested in the equity of companies with
innovative business ideas ("portfolio companies") where the type of assets
(often intangible), the cash demands of rapid growth, a lack of collateral and
the high risk nature of the proposed ventures makes traditional bank financing
inappropriate (para. 2.13). The portfolio is expected to contain a mix of
start-ups, expansion and buyout portfolio companies. A number of the
investments are expected to emerge from the Technology Challenge Program of
the Foundation (para. 4.12). There will be no restriction on the type of
portfolio company. However international experience indicates that the funds
will be disproportionately invested in technology oriented companies. The
size of investments is expected to range from US$0.5 million to US$2.0 million
where, in no case, will the investment be greater than 5% of the VCF's total
capital or 50% of the shareholder capital in the portfolio company. In larger
deals, the VCC will aim to lead manage syndicated financial packages. Total
project costs are estimated at US$89.0 million, assuming (i) average equity
contributions of 60% by portfolio companies and (ii) net investible funds
(after management fees) of the VCF equal US$33.4 million.
4.28      Appraisal procedures have been designed in line with international
practice and the full cycle (from application to Board approval) will take a
maximum of 45 days. The VCM is projecting an approval to application ratio of
1:40 with approval of between 10 and 15 projects per year. As part of the
final review, the VCM will seek external advice from independent industry
specialists. Consultation with the proposed Foundation (see para. 4.08) will
take place on a regular basis to pool information on (a) potential deal
pipeline, (b) lessons from the strategic studies and (c) availability of
industry experts. Potential portfolio companies (although expected to have an
exceptionally low probability of causing environmental damage) will be
required to demonstrate compliance with the environmental regulations of the
GOT and municipal authorities. This approach to environmental protection will
be reflected in the policy statement of the Venture Capital Fund.
4.29      The projected return to investors in the Fund is highly sensitive to
assumptions regarding project succsss ratios, the timing of exit and the
reiTivestment ratio. The VCF's projections assume that:



- 34 -
* 40X completely fail, 40X achieve a modest 101 per annum rea
return on equity and the 20X of high performers achieve a 30X per
annum real return on equity;
* there is no reinvestment during the first 8 years; and
* there are no dividend payments made by the investee companies.
On the basis of these assumptions, the earnings on the VCF will equal a real
rate of 151 per annum. If divestment took place before the 8th year and
reinvestment at equivalent rates by the VCM were assumed, then the overall IRR
would be significantly higher over the life of the Fund. However reinvestment
decisions will be taken at a later point by the VCM's management, subject to
approval by the Board of the VCF.
D. Benefits and Risks
4.30      Benefits.  The project will strengthen the framework for ITD in
Turkey through interventions that accelerate know-how diffusion and
acquisition in industry. Three main principles lie behind the project design.
First., the project will catalyse private firms to invest in the technology
development necessary for competitive success in the international markets.
Second, the project will improve the focus and delivery of public sector ITD
services in those areas where market imperfections or a high degree of
commercial uncertainty are likely to result in an under-investment of private
sector resources. Third, the project will strengthen linkages between the
different stakeholders in the technology community. One major lesson of OECD
experience over the last decade is that ITD depends on a partnership between
private business, the scientific community and the government to overcome the
coordination costs and complexity of "technology strategies". The project
provides a practical opportunity in Turkey for the key stakeholders to create
a share framework for technological development.
4.31      Metrologv. Standards. Testing and Ouality (KSTO).  There are two
main benefits associated with this component. First, the component will close
the international productivity gap by addressing a potential competitive
disadvantage of Turkish firms in their main export markets. EC integration
will result in a progressive introduction of ISO9000/EN45000 quality assurance
standards"6/, generating market entry barriers for those firms which cannot
prove compliance. The development of an MSTQ system to international
standards will therefore support the outward-oriented industrial strategy of
the Government. Second, an effective MSTQ system helps to narrow the internal
productivity gap in industry, raising international competitiveness and
generating consumer welfare gains. On the one hand, the certification of
production techniques against quality assurance standards will encourage the
larger firms, as prime contractors to become more discriminating purchasers of
inputs and to provide technical assistance to their suppliers. On the other,
standards material and testing facilities, if widely available, are sources of
'6 in many cases, as a requirement for product liability insurance.



- 35 -
technical know-how that help smaller firms improve their practices and
understand market requirements.
4.32      Research and Development Component.  The proposed Foundation is
central to the Government's R&D strategy. First, the program of strategic
studies will improve decision making at a time when public and private
organisations are expanding the resource base for technology development.
Second, the seed capital program for ITD is expected to mobilise private
sector investment for medium term technology acquisition and diffusion
projects. Third, the Foundation will have a positive impact on the management
and accounting practices in universities, thereby supporting stronger links
between business and academia.
4.33      Venture Capital Component.  This component is expected to generate
three main benefits. First, the Government has established a regulatory and
tax framework for venture capital that should enable the industry to flourish.
Second, the establishment of a role model venture capital company addresses a
key gap in Turkey's capital markets. The success of the company in devising a
range of specialised instruments to meet the needs of its clients should
stimulate financial innovation in other segments of the domestic capital
market. Third, the availability of venture capital will strengthen the
framework for entrepreneurship and for commercial innovation in the Turkish
economy. The component is a necessary complement to the Government's
technopark initiative (para. 3.14) and will support its program to make R&D
more commercial.
4.34      Risks.  This project is financing two new institutions, the Venture
Capital Company and the Foundation, that will invest in sub-projects where the
payback can be hard to quantify and where failures are an inevitable part of
the innovative process. Nevertheless, the project has been designed to
minimise these risks. First, the major financial commitment of this project
is to its lowest risk component - the MSTQ system. This aspect of Turkey's
technology infrastructure can only grow in importance and its long term
significance will not be affected by short term economic cyclicality. Second,
the private sector has played an active role in all phases of the project
preparation and implementation. This involvement helps to ensure the
commercial relevance of the proposed operations and to build a culture of
client orientation. Moreover, the selected interventions which this project
supports have parallels in other OECD countries. The design of each component
transfers best international practices to the Turkey.
4.35      Other major risks include (i) the management capacity in
counterpart institutions and (ii) uncertainties in the policy and financial
environment. On the management side, a number of steps are being taken to
strengthen skills and procedures at the counterparts. First, the Project is
assisting all counterparts institutions in preparing and implementing
personnel development programs. Second, internal incentive structures have
been introduced to tie senior management compensation to performar.ce. Third,
the reporting requirements for project supervision will flag problems at an
early stage. Semi-annual reports will provide detailed information on (a)
performance to date, (b) new sub-projects (in the case of the Venture Capital



- 36 -
Company and Foundation), (c) 6 month action plan (including investment
pipeline) and (d) overall financial position. Intensive supervision will be
provided in the first year of the project to ensure the rapid development of
institutional competence.
4.36      The reform process of the Government for the industrial and
financial sectors appears to be well entrenched. Turkey will continue its
commitment to an open competitive market economy. Nevertheless, the latest
oil shock raises additional concerns about the Government's stabilisation
program. Venture capital is the only component directly affected by
volatility in the financial markets. However, the 5 to 7 year timeframe of
the Company's investment strategy makes portfolio returns less dependent on
short run financial conditions and more on medium to long term expectations
about inflation and the internal macroeconomic balances.
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.37      Project Costs.  Total project cost is estimated at US$262.2 million
of which US$137.9 million is estimated to be in foreign exchange. In
estimating the financial requirements of the proposed investment program in
the MSTQ system, a physical contingency of 15% has been included and current
price financial estimates are based on (a) projected local inflation rates of
50% in 1991 declining to 30% by 1995, and (b) projected international
inflation rates of 4.0% per annum from 1991 to 1994. The financial
requirements for the Venture Capital and the R&D Components have been based on
estimates of demand combined with the mission's judgment about the absorptive
capacity of the two institutions. In both cases, the number of sub-projects
to be financed would be revised to reflect the funds available. Consequently,
physical and price contingencies have not been calculated for these
components.  Table 4.3 summarises the projects costs.
Table 4.3:  Project Cost Summary
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   %
------TL Billion -----    -----US$ million-----
MSTQ System              82    308      390       13.2    48.0    61.2   78
Price Contingency*      24     32       56        2.8     4.2      7.0   60
Physical Contingency*   8       36      44        1.2     4.8      6.0   80
Research and Dev't      542    493    1035        49.1    43.3    92.4   47
Venture Capital         349    222      571       5a.0    37.6    95.6   39
Total Project Cost    1005   1091    2096        124.3   137.9   262.2   53
* applied to MSTQ Component



- 37 -
4.38      Financing Plan,  The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million will
finance the US$95.0 million (69%) of the foreign exchange costs of the
project, and will also finance US$5.0 million of local costs for civil works
under the MSTQ component. The remetning US$42.9 million of foreign exchange
costs are to be financed by (a) IFC (US$5.1 million), (b) Private Sources
(US$32.3 million), (c) UNDP (US$1.5 million), (d) the German Government
(US$3.3 million), (e) the US Government (US$0.5 million), and (f) the UK
Government (US$0.2 million). The project is providing the vehicle for other
multilateral, bilateral and foreign private institutions to co-finance the
development of Turkey's technological infrastructure. A summary breakdown of
the total US$262.2 million project financing is presented in Table 4.4.
Table 4 4: Project Financing Plan
US$ millions
IBRD/    Bi/Multi-    Public        Private   Total
IFC       lateral      Sector       Sector
MSTQ System           56.7        4.2 (a)      13.2 (b)     0.0       74.1
Research and Dev't   43.3         3.8 (c)      0.5 (d)    44.8 (e)  92.4
Venture Capital        5.1 (f)   0.0           4.0 (g)    86.5 (h)  95.6
TOTAL                105.1        8.0         17.7        131.3      262.2
(a)  Bilateral German (3.5), UNDP (0.5), Bilateral UK (0.2)
(b) Treasury (5.6), TSE (7.6)
(c) UNDP (3.0), USTDP (0.5), Bilateral UK (0.2)
(d) Seed capital (SMIDO, TUBITAK); contribution to overheads
(e) Sub-Project Contributions (43.7), Direct Contributions to
Foundation (1.0)
(f) IFC (5.0) in VCF, IFC (0.1) in VCM
(g) Development Banks (4.0) in VCF
(h) Equity Investment in sub-projects (55.2), Investment in VCF (31.0),
Investment in VCF (0.3)
4.39      After IBRD, private sector sources are the single most important
source of financing for the project. They are expected directly to contribute
US$32.4 million to the project and indirectly a further US$98.9 million
through their sponsorship of individual sub-projects. This is wholly
consistent with the overall thrust of the Government's technology strategy,
which aims to use public funds as a catalyst rather than as a substitute for
the mobilisation of ITD resources by the private sector.
4.40      The public sector (including the development banks) is expected to
finance a total of US$17.7 million (6.8%) out of their own resources. These



- 38 -
funds represent a mix of funding from (a) exceptional allocations by Treasury
(US$5.6 million), (b) TSE's internally generated resources (US$7.6 million),
(c) contributions from TUBITAK and SMIDO to the Foundation, and (d) the
Development Banks (US$4.0 million equity investment in VCF). The Government
is using the Project to reexamine its decentralised approach to ITD financing.
As public expenditures on ITD rise, a more transparent (and integrated)
accounting framework is needed to track sources and uses of funds. During
Project implementation, the Bank intends to provide ongoing technical
assistance to TUBITAK, which is leading this Government initiative.
F. Environmental Impact
4.41      The proposed Project has been reviewed under the provisions of
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment" and placed in
Environmental Screening Category B. The project will not require the
preparation of an environmental assessment; however, environmental review
procedures have been adopted for project supported activities. The proposed
Project will support the environmental objectives of the GOT. First, the MSTQ
component will strengthen the institutional capacity to prepare standards that
reflect environmental and energy conservation guidelines (e.g., in the
building materials industry), and to ensure accurate testing of vehicle
emissions. Under the second component, the Foundation is planning to include
energy conservation as an area of strategic focus for applied research and
development. Third, portfolio companies under the venture capital component
are expected to have an exceptionally low probability of causing environmental
damage. Each portfolio company will however, be required to demonstrate
compliance with the environmental protection guidelines of the GOT and
municipal authorities. This approach to environmental protection will be
reflected in the policy statement of the Venture Capital Fund and Management
Company.
V. PROPOSED LOAN
A. Terms and Conditions
5.01      The loan for US$100.0 million would be made tc the Government of
Turkey at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a repayment period
of 17 years including 5 years of grace. The legal arrangements would involve
a loan agreement between the Bank and the GOT. Separate project agreements
would be signed between (a) TSE and the Bank and (b) TUBITAK and the Bank,
specifying the basis on which the funds would disbursed, the way in which the
recipient institution would manage the projects and project evaluation
criteria. In the case of the Foundation, a separate schedule in the loan
agreement substitutes for a specific project agreement. The IFC's investment
in the VCM and VCF is covered by a separate shareholders' agreement. The
signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
5.02      Relendinpz/RepaXment Terms and Conditions.  The Government intends to
finance the MSTO investments with a mix of grant and loan finance. The



- 39 -
project design envisages a budgetary allocation in the form of a grant to
Tdbitak (including bi/multilateral grants) for US$19.9 million to finance the
NMSI and related institutional strengthening. Government financing of other
elements in the MSTQ Development Plan (US$42.4 million sourced from the Bank)
will be structured as an income note based on not less than 5% of TSE revenues
over 17 years (para. 4.09). Foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government, and there will be no negative amortization. These financial
arrangements are detailed in the subsidiary loan agreement, signed by TSE and
the GOT.
5.03      The Government intends to fi  .ace the Foundation by passing on the
Bank loan as an annual grant to cover the program expenditures. Details of
this arrangement are contained in a subsidiary agreement between the
Government and the Foundation. The operating expenses of the Foundation are
expected to be financed by (a) seed capital contributions from the private
sector (para. 4.17), (b) fees charged by the Foundation for services in
managing the Challenge Grant program, and (c) other income derived from
intellectual property and equity stakes.
B. Administrative Reguirements
5.04      Procurement.  Procurement procedures under the proposed project
would be as follows for the two components financed by the Bank:
(a) MSTO system. Contracts for goods costing more than US$250,000
per contract shall be subject to ICB procedures except for
contracts for metrology and calibration equipment, for which
the limited number of suppliers makes LIB procedures more
appropriate. For contracts procured under LIB procedures, a
maximum contract value of US$1.0 million will apply. For
contracts for goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent,
procurement shall be on the basis of at least three competitive
quotations. Total procurement under this procedure shall not
exceed US$5.0 million. For consultants, TSE and TUBITAK would
follow the Guidelines for the use of consultants issued by the
Bank in August 1981. For civil works (total of approximately
US$15.0 million), the procurement procedures shall be those for
ICB. TUBITAK and TSE (both as principal, and as agent of the
National Accreditation Council) will be required to maintain
records of procurements made under the proposed project, with
summaries of offers received and awards made under each tender.
(b) Foundation. For consultants to carry out the strategic
studies, the Foundation will follow the Guidelines for use of
consultants issued by the Bank in August 1981. Recipients of
Foundation Grants will be required to follow the following
procurement procedures: for contracts of goods costing more
than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, procurement will be
through the ICB procedures. Where the Foundation (subject to
Bank approval) certifies that equipment requirements are highly
specialised, limited international bidding procedures would be



- 40 -
acceptable. For contracts procured according to LIB
procedures, a maximum contract value of US$1.0 million will
apply. For contracts for goods costing less than US$250,000
per contract, procurement shall be on the basis of at least
three competitive quotations. Total procurement under this
procedure shall not exceed US$9.0 million. The Foundation
would also have to certify that these goods were purchased at
reasonable and competitive prices, due account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, quality and
reliability of goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts. The Foundation will be required to maintain
records of the procurements made under each of the grants, with
summaries of offers received and awards made under each grant.
These records would be used by external auditors in auditing
the Foundation's certified statements of expenditure and would
be examined by Bank missions on a sampling basis.
Contracts for goods and services greater than US$500,000 will be subject to
prior review by the Bank, and are expected to account for 60% of procurement
financed by the Bank. Contracts for goods and services less than US$500,000
will be subject to post-review by the Bank (due to the fact that there will be
many contracts in this range), and will be examined by Bank missions on a
sampling basis.
5.05      The Government will establish a single separate Special Account (at
the Central Bank) with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million, representing
approximately 3 months expected disbursements. Sub-accounts will be
established by the Central Bank for TSE, TUBITAK and the Foundation.
Disbursements will take place according to Disbursement Guidelines against
fully documented Withdrawal Applications for contracts greater than US$250,000
equivalent, and against certified Statements of Expenses for contracts less
than US$250,000 equivalent. The Bank loan would finance up to 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment (CIF costs), foreign training, up
to 100% of the ex-factory cost of domestically supplied equipment when
procurement takes place under ICB/LIB procedures, and up to 50% of other local
procurement costs (to cover the costs of imported components). The Bank loan
would finance up to 100% of consultancy fees. The Bank loan would also
finance up to 80% of the expenditures for civil works (under the MSTQ
component).
5.06      Although the Bank has little experience in executing such a project,
the expected disbursement profile for the MSTO component based on the
investment program timeline is that funds will be fully committed within 4
years and disbursed within 6 years. There is no precedent upon which to base
the expected disbursement profile of the Foundation component since it depends
upon attracting matching private funds for the sub-projects. Based on a
conservative estimate of the Foundation's ability to identify attractive sub-
projects, it is anticipated that the funds will be fully committed by the end
of Year 4 and fully disbursed by end of Year 6. The closing date will be
December 31, 1996. For each of the project components, documentation will be



- 41 -
Taole 5.1: Disbursements
Amount       Percentage of Expenditures
Category                   USS Million            to be financed
Machinery & Equipment        66.5          100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of ex-factory cost of
domestically supplied equipment
under ICB/LIB; 50% of other
expenditures (for FX costs)
Consultants                  17.0          100% of expenditures
Training                      6.5          100% of foreign expenditures
Civil Works                  10.0          80% of expenditures
maintained and withdrawal applications submitted by the respective managing
institutions - TSE, TUBITAK and the Foundation. Supporting documentation for
the SOEs will be subject to review by Bank supervision missions and to an
annual audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank, such audit to be submitted
within four months after the close of each financial year.
5.07      Reports. Accounts and Audits.  Progress reports will be submitted
semi-annually for each component. TSE/TUiBITAK's semi-annual report should
include a detailed description of (a) progress under each component of
investment program, (b) cost or time over-runs (and savings), (c) revised
disbursement profile and (d) major actions to be taken in the next 6 month
period. The Foundation will submit, in addition to a financial summary of
operations, detailed summaries of each new sub-project in the previous six
month period, including, inter alia, a description of (a) distinctive
contribution made by sub-project to ITD, (b) participating institutions,
researchers and companies, (c) key success factors, (d) project timeframe, (e)
major risks and (f) potential implications for Foundation's future revenue
stream. Each report of Foundation will also contain brief status reports on
previous investments/grants and development of investment/grant pipeline.
5.08      Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank by the
three managing institutions - TSE, TUBITAK and the Foundation. These audits
will be prepared in accordance with the Bank's standard reporting requirements
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audits for all SOEs will be
submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal year. Since most
Foundation sub-projects would be financed on the basis of certified statements
of expense (SOEs), the audit of the Foundation shall include a special opinion
by the auditors on the adequacy of SOE procedures. Upon completion of the



- 42 -
project, each managing institution will prepare an overall project audit
report within six months of the closing date, December 31, 1996.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances have been provided in the Legal Documents that the
Government:
(a) with respect to the MSTQ component: (i) would provide
budgetary allocations in the form of a grant to Tabitak for
US$19.9 million (para. 4.06); (ii) would provide US$42.4
million for investment by TSE in the form of an income note
with a 17 year amortization schedule including a five year
grace period (para. 5.02); (iii) would place the National
Accreditation Council on a legal basis independent of TSE by
December 31, 1994 (para. 4.08); ; and (iv) would revise any
legislation that provides TSE with a de jure monopoly over
certification services by December 31, 1992 (para. 4.08);
(b) with respect to the Foundation component: (i) would ensure the
contractual freedom of the Universities and public research
institutes in their transactions with the Foundation (para.
4.16); (ii) would provide the Foundation with tax-exempt status
at the end of the minimum two year "probation" period (para.
4.19); and (iii) would ensure the appointment of the Secretary-
General of the Foundation by October 31, 1991 (para. 4.17).
(c) with respect to the Venture Capital component would maintain:
(i) a regulatory framework conducive to the development of the
venture capital industry (para. 4.22); and (ii) tax treatment
that eliminates double taxation of venture capital funds as
defined under Capital Market Board regulations (para. 4.23);
(d) with respect to the flow of funds under the project: (i) would
establish a Special Account at the Central Bank with sub-
accounts for the three beneficiaries of the Project - TSE,
TUBITAK and the Foundation (para. 5.05); and (ii) would
transfer funds from the SA to beneficiary institutions upon
receipt of appropriate documentation and requests;
(e) with respect to public funding for ITD, would develop at
TUBITAK, a consolidated budgeting framework which identifies
the sources and uses of resources (para. 4.40) allocated to
technology development;
6.02      Assurances have been provided in the separate Project Agreement with
TUBITAK with regard to: (i) financial and managerial separation of the NMSI
from the Gebze Research Center (para. 4.06); (ii) recruitment and training of
a further 10 professional staff (in addition to existing staff) for NMSI by
December 31, 1991, 20 by December 31, 1992, and 30 by December 31, 1993 (para.



- 43 -
4.06); (iii) disbursement, procurement, reporting and auditing procedures
(para. 5.04); (v) guidelines as to the hiring of consultants; (vi)
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (para. 4.10); (vii) examination
before June 30, 1993 of TOBITAK testing services according to accreditation
procedures to be established by the National Quality Council (para. 4.08); and
(viii) hiring of consultants to provide technical assistance on strategy,
organizational structure, information systems, financial management and
personnel polices (para. 4.06).
6.03      Assurances have been provided in the separate Project and Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with TSE with regard to: (i) the establishment by TSE of a
Project Implementation Unit (para. 4.10); (ii) the execution of a personnel
development plan (para. 4.35); (iii) the appointment of a Business Development
Director at Assistant Secretary-General equivalent level (para. 4.12); (iv)
performance of a secretariat function for the Council (para. 4.08); (v)
management of the Professional Institute and National Media Campaigns as agent
of the Council (para. 4.09); (vi) examination before June 30, 1993 of TSE
certification and testing services according to the accreditation procedures
to be established by the Council (para. 4.08); (vii) disbursement,
procurement, reporting and auditing procedures (para. 5.04); (viii) guidelines
as to the hiring of consultants; (ix) TSE's repayment obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 5.02); (x) a review of all TSE standards
preparation procedure by June 30, 1992 (Annex 2.3); and (xi) the completion of
a study by December 31, 1991 on the potential for testing laboratories to be
jointly owned and managed by industrial associations (para. 4.14).
6.04      Assurances have been provided in the separate schedule to the Loan
Agreement with regard to the following actions by the Foundation: (i)
issuance of guidelines for the selection of strategic studies (para. 4.14);
(ii) issuance of guidelines for the implementation of the ITD Challenge
Program including project selection, financing, monitoring and evaluation
criteria (para. 4.15); (iii) disbursement, procurement, reporting and auditing
procedures (para. 5.04); (iv) guidelines as to the hiring of consultants; and
(v) annual audits for the Foundation by external auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
6.05      The only Condition of Effectiveness of the proposed Loan will be
signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOT and TSE.
Recommendation
6.06      The proposed Industrial Technology Development Project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million to Turkey. The Loan and
Credit would be made on standard variable interest Bank terms of 17 years,
including 5 years of grace.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey (TtBITAK)
1.        Introduction.  TUJBITAK was established in 1963 by Law No. 278
(amended by decree No. 294 of 1987) as an autonomous agency attached to the
Prime Ministry. The main objectives of TOBITAK are:
* to develop, organise and coordinate basic and applied research in
positive services;
*  to assist the Government in formulating National Science and
Technology Policy;
i  to support the Government's initiatives in the field of
international scientific and technical cooperation; and
* to formulate procedures/policies for education in positive
sciences.
2.        Organisation.  To carry out its work program, TUBITAK has
established:
* In-house Institutes to carry out research in basic sciences,
industrial technology, electronics and defense;
* Research Groups to coordinate and finance research outside
TUBITAK in (a) mathematical, physical and biological science, (b)
engineering, (c) medicine, (d) veterinary medicine and animal
husbandry, (e) agriculture and forestry, (f) marine and
environmental science and (g) building materials;
* TURKDOC to provide a centralised source of scientific and
technical information (including on-line databases);
* Information Technologies Centre (TETM) that offers data-
processing services as well as system analysis.
In addition, there are a number of Directorates, including (a) International
Relations, (b) Industrial Relations and (c) Planning and Coordination that
perform the other responsibilities of TUBITAK. The day to day management of
TUBITAK is in the hands of the President who reports on a regular basis to the
Executive Board. TOBITAK employs a total of 1,130 staff, of whom 700 are
technical/professional.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
page 2 of 3
3.        Budget and Financing.  TOBITAK is almost entirely financed from the
Central Government budget. A small percentage of income (2% in 1988) .:s
earned through contract research. Operating budget has grown only slowly in
real terms since 1981, increasing from US$11.1 million to US$15.0 million in
1989 (current US$ millions). Almost 90% of funds are used in-house, either to
cover the costs of research or administrative overheads. The remaining 10%
was channelled to external projects through the 7 Research Groups, each of
which is allocated 300 million TL per annum.
4.        RelationshiR with Industry.  An important part of TUBITAK's mission
is to work with industry on problems requiring applied research capability. A
number of mechanisms exist within TUBITAK to facilitate this relationship.
*  The Scientific and Industrial Research Institute at Marmara is
the premier public research institute and has a mandate to work
closely with industry. The Institute has 9 departments,
including operations research, electronics, materials sciences,
applied mathematics, nutrition and food technology, mechanical
and energy systems, chemical engineering, applied physics and
electronics data processing. The materials science and the
food/nutrition groups have good relations with industry.
However, overall revenues from contract work represent less than
20% of the Institute's operating budget, cost accounting
techniques remain under-utilised and coordination problems make
it difficult to put together the multi-disciplinary teams needed
in industrial research work. Industry continues to be largely
unaware of the Institute's potential contribution to their
operations.
* The Industrial Relations Directorate was established in 1979 to
strengthen TUBITAK's ties with industry. The Directorate has
established Industrial Extension Units at bstim (a large
industrial estate for SMEs outside Ankara) and more successfully,
at Izmir. An example of successful collaboration (initiated at
Izmir and addressed at Marmara) has been the development of a
process to reduce the sulfur content in dried apricots for
exports. The key success factor in this work was the market
research that identified porential customers for the research.
5.        Despite the existence of these mechanisms, the relationship of
TUBITAK with industry remains at a nascent stage. There are five main
reasons. First, the Executive Board continues to display a pronounced basic
sciences orientation. Second, the internal incentive structure promotes on
the basis of published articles and scientific originality rather than on a
commitment to near-market research with industry. Third, the organisation of
TUBITAK into monodisciplinary groups works against the teamwork needed to
solve industrial problems. Fourth, management practices at TUBITAK do not



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
provide the accountability and control that industry expects in contractual
relations. Finally, the willingness of the Government to finance more than
90% of TUBITAK's operating budget reduces the incentive to perform contract
research.
6.        Recent Developments.  TUBITAK is committed to strengthening its
relevance to the process of industrial technology development. New management
has made an increase in contract research revenues (as a percentage of total
operating budget) a leading indicator of its success in this field.
Representation from the private sector has been introduced into the Research
Committees. In addition, TUBITAK is planning greater emphasis on the economic
analysis in its evaluations of:
(i) new research proposals (both in-house and external); and
(ii) the applications of Universities to establish Centres of
Excellence in science and technology fields.
To address outstanding issues at TUBITAK, senior management has requested
technical assistance support from the Bank in a number of fields including:
i design of a medium term institutional strategy;
p personnel and internal incentive policy;
e budgeting and financial control;
* revenue generation and achievement of higher self-financing
ratios;
i identification and specification of new initiatives; and
l laboratory upgrading.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
TURY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Turkish Standards Institution (TSE)
1.         Introduction.  TSE was established in 1954 within the framework of
the Turkish Union of Chambers of Industry and Commerce and of Commodity
Exchanges (UCICCE). In 1960, under Law No. 132 TSE was separated from the
UCICCE and established as an autonomous company, reporting directly to the
Prime Ministry. The main functions of TSE are:
* to prepare and publish industrial standards;
* to participate in the International Standards Organisation (ISO)
and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC);
generally, to work with other National Standards Bodies in areas
of technical cooperation;
* to provide information to Turkish industry on international
standards;
* to deliver testing and calibration services for private and
public sector organisation;
* to establish quality artification and training activities.
2.        Organisation.  To carry out these responsibilities, TSE has
established:
* 21 Standards Preparation Groups to (a) recommend subjects for new
Turkish Standards, (b) review international practice, (c) draft
proposals in consultation with industry and other potential users
and (d) submit draft standards to TSE's Technical Board for final
approval. The Groups also propose revisions to existing
Standards in line with the evolving needs of industry;
* Central Laboratories in Ankara to provide testing services for
(a) electrical products, (b) chemistry and materials, (c)
machinery and materials, (d) building materials, (e) electronics,
(f) packaging research and development and (g) second-level
metrology and calibration. These laboratories also carry out the
research necessary for the development (and revision) of
Standards;



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
* TSE Certification Mark that companies may use to demonstrate
product complianct with the specification of Turkish Standards;
* Training Division to provide courses for industry and Governments
on (a) testing procedures, (b) quality assurance techniques and
(c) instrument maintenance.
TSE is also developing capabilities in the fields of (a) quality certification
to IS09000 standards and (b) accred,tation procedures. TSE employs
approiximately 700 staff, of whom 450 have a technical training. Since 1980,
the Institution has rapidly exparded its activities with the number of Turkish
Standards doubling from 1980 to 1989 and the number of firms with a TSE
trademark increasing from 157 to 2655. An important issue that TSE faces over
the next decade is how to manage continued growth without compromising on the
quality of service. Table A.1 lays out the key statistics.
Table A.l: TSE Statistics
1990   1981 ... 1985   1986   1987   1988  1989
Number of firms with
TSE Trademark             157    262    1402   1152   1427   1690   2655
Number of Standards      3407   3548    4431   4767   5113   5740   6983
3.        Budget and Financing.  TSE is completely self-financing on a
recurrent cost-basis. Over 95X of revenues come from providing services to
the private sector. TSE certification activities provide almost 2/3 of
income, with testing services accounting for approximatoly 10X. These
proportions are however misleading in that cost accounting techniques at TSE
do not attribute any certification income to the testing laboratories.   Other
sources of revenues include the sale of publications and annual levies on
(inter alia) the Union of Chambers. In real terms, income has remained static
at 1988 levels despite a significant growth in activity. The explanation for
this is that TSE, as a non-profit organisation, sets charges in line with
overall costs. One casualty of the low price policy has, however, been real
investment which has declined from TL 8.5 billion in 1988 to TL 2.5 billion
(1990 constant) in the year to April 1990. Table A.2 provides the profit and
loss amount for TSE since 1988. TSE has already taken a first step in
improving its financial management and market information by (a) carrying out
a 10 year financial programming exercise as part of Project preparation, (b)
completing an external audit by an international auditing firm of financial



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
accounts (since 1987) and of accounting systems, and (c) completing a
marketing study to analyse potential revenue growth and sources of competition
in TSE's main businesses. Nevertheless weaknesses remain that constrain the
performance of the Institute including:
* personnel policy (recruitment criteria, job specifications,
training program and internal incentives);
* financial management (automation, billing procedures, information
for senior management, pricing policy); and
* business development strategy (marketing skills, management of
client relations, ongoing analysis of market needs, assessment of
competition).
These are addressed in the Development Plan of TSE (para. 4.04).
Table A.2: TSE Profit and Loss: 1988-1990
(Constant 1990 TL billions)
1988      1989      1990
Revenues
Certification Income                      10.7       9.3      14.0
Testing Income                             1.5       1.8       2.7
Other                                      9.7       7.0       5.1
Total                                     21.9      18.1      21.8
Costs
Wages                                      8.1       9.2      12.6
Admin. Overheads                           3.0       2.9       3.4
Other                                      3.2       4.0       2.7
Total                                     14.3      15.1      18.7
Net                                          7.6       3.0       3.1
Investments from Own Revenues                8.6       6.2       2.6
Note:  (1)  Year end is April 30
(2) Certification income includes quality certification, import
documentation, vehicle services and TSE mark.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
4.        Relationship with Industry.  TSE enjoys strong and growing links
with industry in all its major activities:
* Client Services. Private industry is the major user of TSE and
contributes over 90% to TSE revenues;
* ParticiRation in Standards Preparation. Industry is represented
on all the Preparation Groups and is consulted extensively
throughout the drafting process.
* MembershiR of General Assembly. The General Assembly meets once
a year to review the work of TSE. The Assembly is also
responsible (every 3 years) for electing the President and
Executive Board of TSE. Private industry has approximately 1/4
of the voting rights in the Assembly.
TSE is actively looking for ways to deepen the relationship with industry.
Proposals include (a) a major expansion of training for engineers and managers
on quality assurance techniques, (b) secondments from industry to TSE staff
and vice versa and (c) opening up TSE laboratory space for use by private
industry.
5.        Develonment Strategy.  At the same time as strengthening its current
activities, TSE aims at:
* promote private sector testing facilities and certification
schemes by (a) establishing a National Accreditation Council, and
(b) expanding training facilities;
* provide leadership on introducing Quality management and
certification services (to internationally recognised standards)
by (a) enhancing in-house capability, (b) establishing the
Quality Campus in Istanbul (para. 4.05), and (c) requesting from
the NAC accreditation for its own testing and certification
activities; and
* increase internal commercial awareness (while maintaining a non-
profit philosophy) by (a) introducing modern financial management
and cost accounting practices, (b) establishing a Business
Development and Marketing Division with direct representation on
the senior management team and (c) reducing the percentage of
income derived from mandatory tests (currently approximately 40X)
within the context of 7% to 10% annual growth in real income.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOC MMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.        A.  TSE Development Plan;  January 1991.
B. Review of TSE's Financial Statements and Systems: November
1990.
C. The Market for Quality Assurance Services in Turkey: November
1990.
2.        National Measurement Standards Institute (TOBITAK):  Investment
Proposal; December 1990.
3.        TOBITAK:  Funding Proposal for Technical Assistance; January 1991.
4.        Foundation for World Class Technology:  Prospectus; August 1990.
5         Foundation for World Class Technology:  Legal Articles of
Association: January 1991.
6.        Capital Market Board:  Draft Communique Regulating Venture Capital
Investment Funds: January 1991.
7.        TurkVenture Initial Project Review:  IFC; January 1991.






0 BU>ARIA    <zo   zoscu,AS   K4IAMONU   )                     d                                                                  w1ze g    0 X                  >,,J                     8RD 2221~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 220
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tUCL                                                                                                       - GReINONsu C. l*;;;JCAW s  _ /_ >5/                           bl
T              OOID                                  11       NBX 9 , Dt'   )*               CNEVSEH                     C ORUM                          AERLT ATY                   a:GRESUALN                                         ,JR ERZRMP  .
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   9  >.                                                                               /GA9  MARAS           DYAMN   A           Q        ~       oEo             L    4 -|
SJ °sCi AYDI>  3  n°b;"- t                    't               &          t   IOPRAKKkE= @--tSINOP                                                                                                 .S.S.
KI  VoRELI                                            ZONGULDNAK~    ATAM.ONU                                                frR5NIZ) Msr**-o*f«jBbE.
t~~~~~ITNU                               \R6w                                            t'  'SM BgH              _      r bs
T.k35d.                         A  RAI                                      _YA                                                                                       3T      K
-  SrAN  TOGSYRIAN  ARAB REPUBLIC
A.     KATGUMUi NAIONAL CAPITAL
-rD                                                                                                                                                                                                              wi.~~~~~ALA    CTESAD ON
MILES                                                                                                                                   -  MACOR HIGHEATS
0   50       100         ~~~~~~150                                                     NOTE Th  ovA, h R P,O,H, AT i bd,v,s,,o,InId  Ifl ~ARL= K , IA,RIROD
S      5 S     00    150 LOT    ASSt2 C RIf 2                                                        N.gde DIAHA l o-nff  dtT,IARA,,l,,AIA -be -e EsRODINCA ROANDARIlS
wm-" wlu           BURSA          Kl,ho'\                                                        YOZGAT                                                               BINGOL            USLO EICRS  INIERNATIONAL SOANDARIE5
ALIKESIR                                                                                                          SIVAS O'  S'                        ES
TEERGARY 19'f



