Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19113-TU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR- 3296S, 3296A)
May 6, 1999
Financial and Private Sector Development Unit
Country Department VI
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange rate as of May 1, 1999
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
1 rnillion Turkish Lira = US$2.56
US$1 = 390,000 Turkish Lira
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMB            -      Capital Markets Board
ECU            -      European Customs Union
FY             -      Fiscal Year
GOT            -      Government of Turkey
ICR            -      Implementation Completion Report
IPRs           -      Intellectual Property Rights
ITD            -      Industrial Technology Development
MAM            -      Marmara Research Center (Marmara Arastirmna Merkezi)
MSTQ           -      Measurement, Standards, Testing and Quality
NAC            -      National Accreditation Council
OECD           -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
R&D            -      Research and Development
S&T            -      Science and Technology
SME            -      Small and Medium Enterprise
TSE            -      Turkish Standards Institute (Turk Standard Enstitusu)
TTGV           -      Technology Development Foundation of Turkey (Turkiye Teknologi
Gelistirme Vakfi)
TUBITAK        -      Council for Scientific and Technological Research
UFT            -      Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade
UME            -      National Metrology Institute (Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu)
VC             -      Venture Capital
VCF            -      Venture Capital Fund
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Team Leader: Vinod K. Goel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR- 3296S, 3296A)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                                    j
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1.....
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................................I
Policy Context .......................................................2
Evaluation of Project Objectives .......................................................4
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .......................................................4
C. IMPLEMENTATION  RECORD  AND  MAJOR  FACTORS ......................................................  11
D. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................................                                                            13
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................                                                        13
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................................                                                       14
G. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................                                                     14
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................... 15
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................                                                         16
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ....................................................                                                         18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ......................................................                                                 18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ......................................................                                             19
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................................                                                      19
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual ......................................................                         20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................... 20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................................................                                  20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................................... 20
Table 8: Project Costs ......................................................                                                         20
Table 9: Project Financing ......................................................                                                      21
Table 10: Financial and Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................... 21
Table  1: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                           21
Table 12: Status of Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................. 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (actuals) ......................................................                               22
Appendixes:
A. Turkish Standards Institute Contribution to ICR
B. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey Contribution to ICR
C. National Metrology Institute Contribution to ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR- 3296S, 3296A)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (JCR) for the Technology Development
Project in Turkey for which Loan TR-3296S and TR-3296A in the amount of US$100
million equivalent was approved on February 28, 1991, and became effective on
September 6, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, instead of the original closing date of April
30, 1997. The last disbursement is expected to take place on April 30, 1999, and about
US$3 million is expected to be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Sanjaya Lall (Oxford University), Manjula Luthria (PSDBE)
and Vinod K. Goel (ECSPF). Helpful comments and assistance were received from
Furuzan Bilir and Hormoz Aghdaey (ECSPF). The ICR was reviewed by Ilham Zurayk
(ECSPF) and Marie-Helene Bricknell (ECCA4).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion missions in June and
October 1998. It is based on material in the project files as well as infonnation received
during the missions. The borrower contributed to the preparation of this document by
providing written input, which is attached in the appendix. The beneficiaries contributed
to this document by providing their own inputs as well as providing comments on draft
versions of the ICR.



TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR- 3296S, 3296A)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.     The Project's three broad objectives were yo: (i) develop the MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing
and quality) system to international standards; (ii) encourage market-oriented R&D in the private sector by
financing projects on a matching basis; and (iii) foster the growth of a venture capital industry.
Achievement of Project Objectives
2.     The project resulted in the setting up of the National Metrology Institute (UME) which has 25
laboratories and is capable of meeting roughly 40 percent of Turkish industry's metrology needs. UME
performs calibration services as well as conducts some R&D and has won international recognition. The
Turkish Standards Institute (TSE) was strengthened through the setting up of a Quality Campus in Istanbul.
Modem financial and management information systems were established which streamlined the cost
accounting, budgeting, and management reporting functions in TSE. However, an independent National
Accreditation Council (NAC) was not established, which has compromised the objective of aligning the
MSTQ system to international standards.
3.     The Technology Development foundation of Turkey (TTGV) was established and has supported
103 R&D projects and studies. More than 50 percent private sector participation in technology
development projects was received and of the completed projects, a large majority have been technically
and commercially successful. Overall, TTGV has been successful in initiating a culture of R&D and
technology finance in Turkey.
4.     The project helped the legal and regulatory framework in Turkey to be conducive to the growth of
venture capital. However, a 'role model' venture capital company could not be established.
Implementation Record, Bank Performance and Borrower Performance
5.     The project was well designed and reflected a commitment form both the Government and
implementing agencies that translated into an overall satisfactory implementation experience.
Implementation on the part of UME proceeded well but may have been slowed down due to tedious
customs regulations for importing equipment as well as Central Bank rules for the use of Special Accounts.
Implementation of the physical upgrading of TSE facilities proceeded satisfactorily, but not without long
delays and some compromises in the training aspects of the component. Implementation of the Quality
Campaign and NAC did not make progress. Implementation of the part of TTGV proceeded satisfactorily.
6.     During implementation, the project agencies found the Bank performance to be satisfactory, but
delays in acquiring no objections and change in task managership at headquarters were cited as sources of
delay and some frustrations. More intense supervision during implementation may have facilitated greater
progress on the institution-building front.
7.     Borrower performance in terms of providing assistance and guidance to the project agencies was
considered satisfactory, however, long and complex procedures for Special Accounts in the Central Bank
slowed implementation frequently.
i



Project Sustainability
8.     The setting up of the metrology center has greatly enhanced measurement capabilities in Turkey,
lowering the costs of metrology to larger firms and making measurement facilities available locally to
smaller firms that would not have used them previously. There is strong potential for the metrology
infrastructure created in Turkey to act as a central hub for the neighboring region. However, further
expansions in the primary metrology infrastructure are not self-sustaining in spite of the record of growing
demand from industry. This is because even though the benefits can translate into higher productivity,
increased competitiveness, market shares and exports for firms, the cost recovery for provider institutions
of these services rarely exceeds 30 percent, and usually settles to around 20 percent.
9.     The expansion and upgrading of the Standards infrastructure has helped industrial competitiveness
by improving quality standards and providing intemationally acceptable certification to Turkish exports.
Building the new Quality Campus of TSE in the Istanbul area extends its coverage to an important segment
of Turkish industry. Some further improvements in the standards infrastructure maybe sustainable through
the increased income generation capacity as a result of these expansions and investments.
10.    The catalytic impact of the Technology Development Foundation has been significant and
positive. The project has helped by overcoming many of the information and perception barriers regarding
investments in technology upgrading and guided firms in the methodology of doing R&D. The culture
created by its activities has just begun to permeate Turkish industry. While interest and ability to undertake
R&D have both been fueled through the project, and the accession to the ECU provides the backdrop for
demanding more of this in the near future, only a very small fraction of industry has had a chance to
benefit from these programs so far. Sustaining this momentum created will require continued financial and
technical assistance support to local institutions in expanding their coverage and portfolio of instruments.
Future Operations
11.    Path to technological development involves a slow process of learning and adaptation to a new
environment and hence leaves considerable scope for expanding the coverage and depth of the services in
question. Much more work remains to be done in terms of raising the awareness, access and participation
of the Turkish private sector in technology development activities. In particular, the recent accession of
Turkey to the ECU mandates that increased attention be paid to matters of technological catch-up if
Turkish industry wants to compete in global markets.
12.    Foremost, industry's demand for refinements in measurement accuracy, and for rigorous product
specifications embodied in public standards continues to grow in all OECD countries. Therefore, Turkish
industry's needs are likely to increase substantially as it tries to move from low-skill goods to technology
and skill intensive products that demand precision, quality and traceability to international standards.
These requirements will place heavy demands on the MSTQ infrastructure which would therefore need to
be further expanded and strengthened.
13.    Firms are also responding to competitive pressures of freer trade by trying to upgrade their
technologies. Therefore, continued support for technology investments in the private sector through a
vehicle such as TTGV would become even more important towards maintaining a culture of technology
finance. While an awareness and market for technology development has been created through TTGV's
activities, there remains a large potential for building upon this initial success and carrying this
momentum forward. Efforts to increase the awareness and availability of risk-based finance such as
venture capital ought to be continued and the private sector facilitated in setting up such funds and
companies.
ii



14.    Meanwhile, research institutions and universities can also help Turkish industry upgrade its
capabilities, but these institutions would have to be brought into the main stream by helping them become
better aligned to the needs of industry. Future operations can support a restructuring program for
universities and research institutions. Along side this restructuring, private sector-led investments in
incubators and technoparks which attempt to bring industry, academia, and research institutions together
in order to augment their synergies could also be explored. Finally, some attention will have to be paid to
Turkey's Industrial Property Rights (IPR) regime in order to facilitate technology transfer from foreign
fimns to domestic ones and also to protect domestic innovations that result from newly undertaken
technology development activities.
Lessons Learned
*   When launching new activities, an emphasis on private sector participation in decision making,
either directly through involvement in managerial responsibilities, or indirectly through the
institutionalization of feedback mechanisms should be placed from the beginning in order to ensure
an alignment of the project activities to the beneficiaries needs.
*   Measures to stimulate fimn-level technology upgrading require the development of specialized
skills to evaluate and monitor technology projects on the part of the provider institution. Success in
these activities can be greatly enhanced by the ability of institutions like the Bank to share cross-
country experiences with new comers, as well as the flexibility to incorporate any country or
institution-specific parameters into the implementation as they are discovered. The Bank therefore
needs to emphasize institution development through technical assistance, study tours, training and
intensive hands-on supervision to ensure that this learning is facilitated.
*   In relation to issues of MSTQ infrastructure, a specific lesson drawn from the experience of this
project is also that in order to stimulate private sector provision of technological services an
independent accreditation body which does not have conflicts of interest with existing public
agencies and whose credentials are internationally acceptable is needed.
iii



TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan TR- 3296S, 3296A)
Part l. Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Project Name            Technology Development
Loan No.                3296A, 3296S
PHRD Grant No.          TF 27690
Country                 Turkey
Sector                  Private Sector Development
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    In response to the Turkish Government's request for technical and financial support for
industrial technology development, the Project's three broad objectives were to: (a) develop the
MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing and quality) system to international standards by capacity
building in the key public institutions, and establishing a framework for greater private sector
participation; (b) encourage market-oriented R&D in the private sector by financing projects on a
matching basis; and (c) foster the growth of a venture capital industry by rationalizing the tax
environment and establishing a 'role model' company.
The detailed components of the project were as follows:
MSTQ Component
2.    US$58.0 million was allocated by the World Bank to a program (total cost of $74.2
million) to upgrade the MSTQ. There were three sub-components: (a) development of a National
Measurement Institute on the TUBITAK campus (World Bank contribution of US$16.1 million);
(b) improvements in the Turkish Standards Institute by setting up a Quality Campus in Istanbul,
human capital development and institutional improvements (World Bank contribution of
US$41.2 million); and (c) setting up a National Accreditation Council, which in turn would set up
the Professional Institute for Quality Assurance, and initiate a National Media and Quality
Education Campaign (revised World Bank contribution US$0.7 million, originally at US$5.0
million). This component was to be administered by the TSE.
Research and Development Component
3.    The project was to support the establishment of an independent Foundation to provide:
(a) funds for 'Challenge Programs' to stimulate applied research and technology development by
industry, with a mix of matching grants, income notes and conditional loans. The expectation
was that most projects would be financed on a conditional loan basis, with repayments tied to
their success. The World Bank would provide US$42.0 million out of a total cost of US$92.4
million for this program; and (b) seed capital for studies on the competitiveness of strategic
Turkish industries.



Venture Capital Component
4.    The project would facilitate the growth of venture capital industry by: (a) defining a legal
and regulatory structure for venture capital under the amended Capital Market Board Law; (b)
provide for appropriate tax treatment for VC funds; and (c) establish a VC company and fund to
act as a 'role model' for the industry.
5.    The Bank and IFC were to provide joint assistance to the Government on this component.
While the Bank was to play a role in providing advice on legal and regulatory aspects, and assist
in the market analysis and identification of technology oriented deals, the IFC was to use this as
an opportunity to become a shareholder in the Fund and Management company, and together
with a foreign technical partner, to transfer venture capital know-how to Turkey.
Policy Context
6.    The manufacturing sector in Turkey accounted for around 25 percent of GDP in 1990,
and was the second largest sector in the economy. Fostered under a regime of protected import-
substitution, with widespread public ownership and government intervention, it had enjoyed
healthy growth until the mid-1970s. However, the first oil shock combined with inadequate
adjustment showed its weaknesses. The Government implemented an extended stabilization
program and a sweeping program of structural adjustment in the 1980s, supported by a series of
SALs from the World Bank. The trade regime was liberalized progressively, with the elimination
of non-tariff barriers and a rationalization and lowering of tariffs. The tax, incentive and
preferential credit systems were restructured, state enterprise efficiency was improved, the
foreign investment regime was liberalized and domestic barriers to entry and growth were
reduced. The Government shifted its investment priorities from competing with the private sector
to providing complementary infrastructure, particularly in transport and communications.
7.    The Government also began to lay emphasis on developing capital markets. A capital
market law was enacted in 1981 and a Capital Markets Board was established in 1985 to regulate
and supervise private issuers and brokerage firms. The Istanbul stock exchange opened in 1986
and in an effort to stimulate capital markets double taxation of corporate income and withholding
tax on dividends were eliminated, tax incentives for domestic mutual funds were provided, and
the rules were liberalized for foreign investment in Turkish securities.
8.    A significant shift in relative prices in favor of export industries coupled with the
domestic stabilization efforts described above, resulted in a vigorous private sector response to
the liberalized regime. The trend of negative productivity growth in the late 1970s was reversed.
Output grew at an average of 7 percent per annum in the 1980s, while manufactured exports grew
nine-fold between 1980 (US$ 1.0 billion) and 1989 (US$ 9.0 billion), a real annual rate of 20
percent, first in Middle-East and later in OECD markets. Firms upgraded their facilities by
importing modern equipment and licensing new technologies, buying designs and marketing
know-how, and forming alliances with foreign partners. Financial sector reforms helped improve
the efficiency of capital markets and led to a jump in market capitalization.
9.    However, by 1990 there were signs that further policy initiatives were needed to maintain
the growth momentum. As firms approached the international productivity frontier, they could
not maintain growth simply by importing foreign technologies; they needed to upgrade and
deepen their technological capabilities. Turkish industry had practically no tradition of
2



conducting research and development, and relied passively on imported technologies. Total R&D
in Turkey came to 0.22 percent of GNP in 1989, with only 13 percent of this financed by the
private sector. In 1989, only 13 firms applied for R&D fiscal incentives. Thus the overall share of
private R&D in GNP (0.03 percent) was far below levels in other newly industrializing countries
and too low to support sustained industrial upgrading and entry into advanced European markets.
Manufactured exports were concentrated in highly vulnerable, price sensitive, labor-intensive
segments, dominated by textiles and garments. There was heavy reliance on unstable Middle East
markets. The lack of technological activity induced a significant brain drain of the best Turkish
technical graduates. The need for technology support was particularly pressing for the large
number of SMEs that dominated Turkish industry and that tended to lag in technology.
10.   At the time of the design of this project the Government financed the bulk (87 percent) of
R&D in Turkey, located primarily in public research institutes (under TUBITAK) and
universities. Public sector R&D had few linkages to the industrial sector; private industry was
reluctant to contract research work to laboratories and universities. The distribution of public
R&D did not match the pattern of industry's technological needs. The Government's program for
industrial technology development (ITD) was poorly coordinated, with overlaps between
institutions and outdated policies. The infrastructure supporting technological activity in Turkey
was inadequate to industrial needs in the liberalizing system. MSTQ (metrology, standards,
testing and quality) services could not provide sufficient accurate measurement, testing and
certification to Turkish enterprises, raising their costs, constraining technology development and
reducing their ability to compete internationally. There was little private sector provision of
technology services; there was no accreditation body in Turkey to audit and certify independent
testing bodies. The supply of MSTQ manpower was insufficient for emerging needs. There were
no sources of technology finance. Apart from the absence of a venture financing tradition, tax
policies discouraged investment in venture capital by placing the tax incidence on the funds
rather than on shareholders and taxing capital gains fully with no allowance for inflation.
11.   The Government, recognizing the need for a new strategy to stimulate and support
technology development in private enterprises, issued a Science and Technology Policy
Statement in 1987. Among the new policies were improved tax incentives for industrial R&D,
procurement directed at encouraging local technological effort, mechanisms to improve linkages
between industry and the science community, and enhanced participation in EU and NATO
research programs. In 1991, the Prime Minister made a proposal to Parliament to set up a Science
and Technology Board. This Board was to invest in university R&D in biological sciences,
computer and information science. It would fund overseas scholarships in Science and
Technology (S&T), technology training and materials development for S&T, and the
participation of Turkish firms and researchers in international R&D programs.
12.   The Government also responded to industry demand for a more effective technology
infrastructure. It proposed establishing a national metrological laboratory at TUBITAK. The
Turkish Standards Institution (TSE), set up in 1954 and made an autonomous company in 1960,
was expanding its standards preparation, product certification and testing capabilities in its
central laboratories in Ankara. In 1990, TSE established a National Quality Council which was to
become the independent National Accreditation Council by 1994. The public research community
was encouraged to strengthen linkages with private industry. The Higher Education Law of 1981
had allowed Revolving Funds as a legal mechanism for contracting public institutions to perform
research and consultancy work, and allowed scientists to earn up to a 200% bonus over basic
university incomes. The State Planning Organization was sponsoring business incubators at five
3



leading universities to help commercialize know-how developed at universities, and attract
research laboratories from large companies.
13.   The Government focused on information services as a key tool to increase the
productivity of public sector R&D. Centralized investments were made in on-line database
facilities, journal collections and CD-ROM technologies. The TSE was providing specialized
information on standards and patents. The Government was reviewing the intellectual property
regime to bring it into line with E  mpean Community conventions. SME extension services were
being strengthened.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
14.   In light of this policy environment the project's objectives addressed both --the emerging
technological needs of Turkish industry in the early 1990s, as well as the priorities of the
Govermment's S&T imperatives and on-going programs. It identified the important policy needs
of industry in a liberalizing economy that needed to compete effectively in the global market and
took account of the deficiencies in the existing policy and institutional framework for industrial
technology development. The private sector, itself increasingly aware of these imperatives, was
'on board' with the Bank's approach.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
MSTQ Component
(,) National Metrology Institute:
15.   A National Measurement Institute was established under TUJBITAK in 1984 as the
custodian of primary measures. In 1991, it had a professional staff of 14, located at the Gebze
Research Center of TUBITAK and drawing upon the other laboratories there. The Government's
objective was to meet industrial needs for primary standards in six fields: dimensional metrology,
electrical, mechanical, thermal and pressure, volume and mass, and optical measurements. The
project, based on a plan drawn up by the Institution, envisaged the expansion of technical staff to
50, investment in specialized training and consultants work (US$2.1 million), and equipment
(US$14.0 million). It also envisaged financial and managerial autonomy from the Marmara
Research Center (MAM), in line with international practice for metrology institutions. Initially,
the project was to finance US$12.0 million of the total cost of US$17.9 million. A further US$2.3
million was allocated to improve operational efficiency at TUBITAK, particularly to address
constraints on recruiting and retaining qualified staff. These figures were set as US$13.3 million
for UME and US$2.8 million for MAM at the end of the project.
16.   The project resulted in the setting up of the National Metrology Institute in January 1992.
Its achievements are as follows:
* By mid-1998, UME had 25 laboratories capable of meeting roughly 40 percent of Turkish
needs for metrology to international standards. According to a study by the National Physical
Laboratory of the UK, "The development of the primary measurement standards at UME has
proceeded, and is proceeding, at an extraordinarily fast pace. The laboratory facilities are
4



impressive and not only is the measuring equipment of high quality, but the overall facilities,
including the physical environment, also meet high standards." 1
* By mid-1998, UME had 116 employees, of whom 88 were considered technical staff (49
held Bachelors of Science degrees, 23 held M.Sc degrees and 8 held Ph.D. degrees. One
quarter of those that held M.Sc degrees are continuing their education and expect to obtain
doctorate degrees by the year 2000).
* UME places emphasis on conducting R&D into measurement facilities and techniques rather
than just supplying services. All good metrology institutes need to invest in R&D in order to
attract high caliber staff, improve its measurement capabilities and provide better services
and technology transfer to industry. In 1997, UME devoted about 15 percent of its
expenditures to research and development activities.
* Demand for UME metrological services has increased rapidly in the private sector. The
number of calibrations done by UME has increased from 875 in 1996, to 1150 in 1997, and is
expected to reach 1500 in 1998. Enterprises consider its work to be of high quality, and
comparable to that in Europe. The costs of UME services were significantly lower than of
sending the same equipment to Europe for calibration (estimates put European costs at about
2.6 times higher than UME's costs).
* UME has won international recognition, indicated by its acceptance, after technical
evaluation, by the International Measurement Confederation, the European Cooperation in
Analytical Chemistry, and the Organization of European Metrology Institutes. The German
Government also made a technical evaluation and decided to extend technical aid for three
years.
* UME encouraged the setting up of new private laboratories to provide measurement services,
by providing technical advice to these laboratories and keeping its prices for standard
services above that of competitor private laboratories by about a factor of 4.52.
Approximately 56 new private laboratories had been set up since the inception of UME and
almost all of them have sought and received some technical advice from UME. UME has also
helped improve the measurement facilities in government laboratories.
* UME disseminates information through articles, newsletters, lectures, seminars and so on,
and has raised general awareness of the importance of metrology. Around 5 percent of each
annual budget is spent on awareness raising activities. UME also participates in industry
working groups in order to facilitate technology transfer to member firms and has organized
several local technical workshops for industry. UME has also assisted the Foreign Trade
Department and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in drafting technical regulations for the
Turkish market.
* By 1998, UME was earning 15 percent of its revenues from the private sector, which was up
from 10.5 percent in 1997 and 4.7 percent in 1996. According to the NPL study, the norm in
European countries is 10-30 percent, reflecting the public good nature of the services
provided. It estimates that UME is likely to reach 15-20 percent in the long-term. On this
score, therefore, UME is doing quite well in a short period.
17. These indicators show that project objectives were achieved by UME. By providing for a
significant proportion of metrological needs in the country, it has made a very valuable
contribution to Turkish industry and technology. According to the NPL study, it is likely to
' Study of the Second Phase Investment in UME, Turkey, National Physical Laboratory, UK, May 1997.
2 UME's costs are higher than those of private local laboratories (where comparable facilities exist). This is common
and desirable practice among metrology institutes, since it reflects the highly specialized and difficult measurements
conducted by the Institute and encourages the development of private providers for other routine services.
5



become a 'metrological hub' in the region, where neighbors lack such advanced centers. This will
prove to be not only a source of earnings for UME but also a benefit for Turkish industry, exports
and technology. An analysis of the economic returns by NPL, based on EU benchmarks, finds
that the minimum cost-benefit ratio of these investments is around 45, which is highly favorable.
18. However, areas of improvement remain and have been highlighted by the NPL study as well
as in interviews with UME and the private sector.
* UME has suffered from high staff turnover (among technical staff, turnover came to around
23 percent in 1997 and 18 percent in 1998). This may be due to several causes: salaries lower
than the private sector, shortage of metrological skills in the country, or personnel
management problems. Some of these problems can not be remedied by UME, which is
providing an external benefit to Turkey by training people in metrological skills. Others may
be remedied by appropriate remuneration and personnel policies.
*  The staff is young on average (average age of technical staff is 29 years) and lacks
experience of industrial problems.
*  The NPL study notes that "this impressive rate of development has created technical,
personnel and planning challenges and pressures that are unique to UME". It goes to analyze
a number of detailed technical areas in which the capabilities of UME need to be improved or
strengthened, such as training to handle specialized equipment, dealing with industrial
customers, technology transfer, and building up larger teams to reduce dependence on a few
key people.
(ii) Turkish Standards Institute:
19. The Turkish Standards Institute is one of the largest standards bodies in the world, with
around 700 employees in 1991 (about 1000 in 1998) of whom around three-quarters are
technically qualified. By 1998, it had developed around 13,000 standards of its own. It had
capabilities for certifying ISO 9000 quality management systems, with over 10 lead assessors,
and has issued 1641 TSE mark certificates in the 1997-98 period. It is preparing itself for ISO
14000 certification. However, the growth of private consultancy and certification in these areas
has led to significant loss of senior personnel from TSE. It is self-financing, earning its keep from
the sale of testing, certification, secondary calibration services (of these, certification provides
two-thirds of its income), providing information, training, and sale of standards. Its earnings have
grown from US$31 million in 1995-96 to US$38 million in 1996-97, US$40 million in 1997-98
and are expected to reach US$68 million in 1998-1999. Certification income has typically been
around US$18 million, income from laboratories has been just under US$5 million, and
calibration has brought in under US$1 million. These figures are expected to go up to US$33
million, US$9 million and US$1.2 million respectively.
20. The three sub-components of the project relating to TSE (Quality Campus, human capital
development and institutional improvements) can be divided into five objectives: (i) building a
new Quality Campus near Istanbul; (ii) establishing a modern financial and management
information system in TSE; (iii) implementing computerized cost accounting procedures in TSE;
(iv) improving managerial and organizational skills in TSE; and (v) establishing a National
Accreditation Council, initial programming of the Professional Institute for Quality Assurance,
and coordination and management of a National Media and Quality Education Campaign.
6



21. The Quality Campus construction was completed on a delayed schedule by end 1997, with
the allocated budget fully used. The financial and MIS system was subcontracted to a
consultancy firm which has satisfactorily established a cost accounting, budgeting, management
reporting, and information system. The computerization of TSE activities and training for users
has also been completed satisfactorily. This provides for TSE to serve as an information center
for official and public users, an Electronic Bulletin Board System, a world-wide electronic
messaging system for delivering and receiving information and documents, a Wide Area
Information Transfer System, a general purpose backup and archiving system and a corporate
distributed information processing platform.
22. These project components have strengthened TSE capabilities significantly. The industrial
firms that had dealings with TSE for certification work were pleased with its services. TSE staff
was apparently helpful, competent and prompt; some firms even said that they had gone out of
their way to provide technical advice on quality. Their costs were considered reasonable and their
product certification well respected in Turkey and abroad.
23. However, some drawbacks remain in the accomplishment of some important objectives:
namely in the latter two objectives listed above. While several staff received overseas and in-
house training in technical areas such as ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certification, and non-
technical areas such as foreign language training, the training needs of the institution were not
fully met and funds were reallocated towards equipment purchases. The Quality Campaign was
suspended, and an independent National Accreditation Council was not set up. The reason for the
latter was the decision of the TSE to set up an accreditation body on its own (the National
Council for Quality and Accreditation, the NCQA), without full agreement by other parties.
NCQA did not have full international recognition, and there were concerns that its staff lacked
the capability to accredit private laboratories.
24. More importantly, there was conflict of interest between the accreditation function andTSE's
own certification work. Accreditation bodies perform their accreditation of laboratories by virtue
of their independence from the actual business of providing any testing or certification services
themselves. When an institution that provides certification to enterprises is also involved in the
accreditation of laboratories, it raises doubts about the credibility of both the accreditation and
certification functions. Some exporting firms in Turkey have already had to bear the brunt of this
in the form of facing rejection of their exports into the EU because the certificates granted by
TSE were not considered to be valid.
25. In fact, even with regards to certification, some private firms have questioned the monopoly-
like status that TSE has acquired. In most industrial countries, standards institutes will confine
themselves to developing and publishing standards, while private laboratories provide a good
portion of the certification services. Such an evolution would be desirable in Turkey also, but is
currently prevented by the lack of independent accreditation services for the private laboratories
to emerge.
26. In sum, while the TSE component attained its goal of internal expansion and upgrading it did
not succeed in establishment of a legitimate and credible accreditation system for laboratories.
While the reasons certainly have more to do with internal territorial concerns, in hindsight, the
project could have been designed to avoid coupling activities with a potential conflict of interest
under one institution. Also, greater involvement and action at an early stage by the World Bank
may have been desirable in reducing some of the detrimental impacts.
7



R&D Component
27. This component of the project, US$42 million, led to the setting up of the Technology
Development Foundation of Turkey (the Turkish acronym is TTGV). TTGV was to stimulate
private investment in industrial technology development by providing seed capital for projects
through matching finance for market-driven private sector R&D in order to help develop a
'technology culture' in the country.
28. This goal were reflected in the by-laws of the TTGV as follows:
*  To provide funds and expertise supportive of industrial technology development projects to
enhance technology and technological infrastructure
*  To identify technological research areas which have potentially the highest effects on the
economic structure of the country and to carry out research and projects in such areas
* To encourage Turkish industry to increase in real terms its investments in R&D
* To assist Turkish industry in using data and information on scientific deve-lopment
* To strengthen the ties between Turkish industry and higher education institutions, the
Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey, and other public and private research
organizations
* To provide an example of 'best practice' in technology management
* To identify technologies that have broader applications and promote their development
* To encourage Turkish and foreign scientists to make their activities relevant to
competitiveness of Turkish industry
* To define and develop strategies to ensure that Turkish industry would reach international
levels of technology.
29. Some of these objectives are general and hence difficult to assess, but others are specific and
their achievement can be evaluated in the light of experience.
30. TTGV was set up as a 'vakif', with a Constitutive Assembly. The Assembly has 56 members,
drawn mainly from the private sector. TTGV has a 9-member Executive Board, of which six are
private sector representatives taken from the Constitutive Assembly. It draws upon a large pool
of experts (around 1200) from universities (675), private enterprises (around 400) and the public
sector (around 160) to evaluate and supervise projects. TTGV operates three funds: the World
Bank technology development fund; the Montreal Protocol Multiparty Fund -- also from the
World Bank3; and funds from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade (UFT).
31. The main function of TTGV, co-funding R&D projects in private industry from the World
Bank loan, started in November 1992. There were two rounds of solicitations of projects each
year, and 273 applications had been received until April 1998. Of these, 103 projects (37.7%)
were selected, 84 of these were technology development projects, and 18 were 'strategic focal
point' studies. Of the technology development projects, 67 have been completed. The total value
of the funded projects is US$99 million, of which US$44 million comes from the TTGV
(excluding the sum of US$2.9 million contracted but not used) and US$55 million from the
private sector. Thus, the total funding under this heading has been allocated, and the contribution
of the private sector, at 56 percent, is larger than the 50 percent originally envisaged. The TTGV
3 This is an Ozone Trust Fund administered by the Bank to assist the transformation towards non-ozone-depleting
technologies.
8



contribution includes its 100 percent grant funding (US$1.5 million) of 'strategic focal point'
projects executed by research centers or universities.
32. TTGV started by funding projects on a royalty basis. This mechanism was dropped because
repayment could only be made if the project yielded a commercially successful product, and was
substituted by an installment repayment arrangement that was not tied to commercial success4.
The sectors in which technology development projects were undertaken (in descending order by
percentage distribution of the number of projects) are: Information technology 23 percent,
Materials 23 percent, Machinery 16 percent, Electrical and electro-mechanical 13 percent,
Biotechnology and agro-technology 13 percent, Chemistry 5 percent, and Others 8 percent.
33. By size of participating company (in terms of employment size), about 64 percent are small
and medium sized enterprises, and 36 percent are large companies. By age of company, about 89
percent have been in existence for longer than five years and 11 percent for under five years. In
terms of strengthening links with universities and research centers, 62 percent of the projects
involved joint R&D with such agencies.
34. Of the 46 completed projects, 74 percent have been technically and commercially successful,
20 percent have been technically successful but commercially unsuccessful, and 6 percent have
been technically unsuccessful. The commercially unsuccessful projects may also have added to
the technical knowledge base of the company, and induced firms to persist in R&D efforts. The
successful projects have been able to increase exports of the firm between 5 and 45 percent
depending upon the year of completion.
35. TTGV has also supported the following four sectoral R&D projects that were considered
important for supporting generic technologies:
-  Cleaner Textile Center: To conduct R&D for cleaner production technologies for the textile
industry to comply with international manufacturing standards. The Center was founded by
textile companies jointly with TTGV.
*  Electronic Center: To expand R&D in the electronics industry, based on leased equipment
and offering advanced testing services and create awareness of cost reduction. TTGV, the
Electronics Industry Specialization Center and KEMA International of Holland support it.
The Center is set up as a joint stock company.
*  Tribology Center: This is a center for advanced surface treatment technologies, proposed by
the Izmir Technopark Trade Association and supported by it jointly with TTGV and
industrialists.
* Bio-Analytical Research Center: This aims to establish an international reference center for
bioavailability and bioequivalence and has been established jointly with the Turkish
Pharmacology Union.
36. Interviews with a sample of participating firms confirm the beneficial impact of the project.
TTGV seems to be fairly well known in Turkish industry, at least among the large companies. It
has induced several firms to launch formal R&D for the first time, helped improve the
management of R&D (even in the firms that conducted R&D before), and stimulated some
collaboration between industry and universities. The outside experts that supervised the projects
were considered to have made positive contributions to research and, more importantly, made
4 Deterrnining "commercial success" is difficult for R&D projects.
9



firms aware of the potential benefits of interaction with technical experts from the academic
world. Many of the research projects resulted in commercially viable products. Many were in
technically sophisticated areas, and helped to take the enterprise to the frontiers of technology
and to match the best in Europe. In general, it aroused a great deal of enthusiasm and interest in
large-scale industry, earned a very good reputation among industrialists, and established TTGV
as a prestigious institution.
37. On the other hand, some doubts arise about the program. For instance, the rationale for
providing subsidized loans to support R&D in some of the largest firms in the country5 or to firms
that had been engaged in conducting research for a long time is not clear. There was an emphasis
on technological prowess leaving the criteria of establishing the economic importance of the
project somewhat unclear. Some projects did not seem based on a proper consideration of the
international competitive aspects and had failed because the entry of competitors from other
countries (particularly those from East Asia) was not taken into account. This will become more
marked in the next 4-6 years as the MFA is abolished and restraints on automotive imports from
Asia are lifted.
38. Considerable scope for improvement also lies in the program's emphasis on institution
building efforts. While it is understandable for an institution administering a new program such
as this to concentrate its efforts on the financial transactions aspect of the loan administering
process, a bigger and more lasting impact of the program could be reached by placing equal
emphasis on efforts to become more involved with the private sector. This would entail
monitoring the firms on a regular basis, receive continuous feedback from beneficiaries, and
engage in greater dissemination of the program through seminars and workshops which not only
serve the purpose of reaching a wide audience but also of providing inputs and comments from
private industry on the administering and implementation of the program. Adopting such a hands-
on approach to the program would of course necessitate development of appropriate skills for
managers and key staff for this program with good knowledge of technology development
process in the private sector, as well as R&D financing practices in relevant countries.
39. It is also not clear what the focus and impact of the 'strategic focal point' studies was. TTGV
has conducted 18 studies, nine on technology and industrial strategy, and the remainder on
specific technologies such as genetics, software, materials, pharmaceuticals and agriculture. The
total cost of these studies was US$1.5 million. While some practical evaluatory ground-work of
the technological scenario may be desirable for focusing the Foundation's activities, the value-
added of these theoretical studies remains to be seen.
40. Despite these weaknesses, however, the R&D component as a whole can be regarded as
successful in its mission of starting a modern 'technology culture' in Turkish industry. It induced
a number of firms to undertake R&D, and others to improve their R&D management. It created a
broader awareness of the need for technological activity. It brought university researchers into
some contact with industry. Many of the projects were advanced in technological terms, and
yielded profitable and competitive products. Many of the weaknesses that remain could be
traceable to the novelty of the scheme and the learning process that invariably accompanies such
a scheme. A more hands-on approach from the Bank's side through assistance in defining the
focus, business strategy and benchmarking against other country experiences could also have
catalyzed the institution building activities of the Foundation.
Even though these are not the majority in terms of the numerical portfolio of TTGV lending.
10



Venture Capital Component
41. The component was expected to accomplish three main objectives. First, by establishing a
regulatory framework for VC, it was to enable a VC industry to grow. Second, the setting up of a
role model company was to demonstrate a range of specialized instruments to meet client needs
and stimulate financial innovation in other segments of the domestic capital market. And finally,
the availability of VC was expected to strengthen the framework for entrepreneurship and
commercial innovation in the Turkish economy.
42. The project met the first objective successfully. It helped to: (i) define a legal structure for the
industry based on a separation of VC management companies from VC funds, specify minimum
capitalization and qualifications for VC fund managers, specify the minimum size of fund,
number of shareholders, investment per shareholder, life of funds, and acceptable changes to
changes in shareholding structure; (ii) define registration, reporting and auditing requirements;
(iii) regulate the relationship between management companies and funds, including fee structures
and incentive packages for management companies, contract termination and fund draw down
agreements; and (iv) structure management companies so as to be subject to standard tax
treatment for corporate income, and VCFs registered with CMB not subject to tax anymore,
rather tax incidence shifted from Funds to shareholders in the Funds at the time that income is
realized and distributed to make it consistent with the pass through treatment that VC receives in
other OECD countries.
43. The setting up of a VC company with IFC shareholder-ship however could not be achieved.
Due to the environment in Turkey the EFC was keen on an off-shore operation whereas the
government of Turkey preferred an on-shore operation. However, two VCCs did emerge on their
own: Vakif-Risk set up by Vakif Bank, and SPARK set up by overseas Japanese investors.
However both of these companies possess only a very small portfolio of projects and are too new
to allow an evaluation of their performance yet. While they have confirmed that the improvement
in the legal and regulatory framework was indeed a desirable change that has removed some of
the major hurdles in the establishment of VC, the lack of technologically-demanding new projects
that could qualify for VC funding continues to be a major constraint in their expansions. The
somewhat unstable environment that has kept inflation high in Turkey has prevented long term
planning on the part of firms and entrepreneurs, which has taken an obvious toll on research and
innovative activities which require long term investments. Hence it is also too early to say
whether innovativeness of financial instruments or the commercialization of R&D has yet come
about in Turkey.
44. It may be useful to bear in mind that given the very specific nature ofVC, and the backdrop
of passive importation of technology rather than indigenous technology development among the
private sector in Turkey, the slow progress of this component is perhaps understandable. Efforts
to increase the awareness of industry and financiers to this form of capital should therefore be
continued and technical assistance provided to VC fund and management companies in order to
bring about a culture of innovation finance in the future.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
45. The project was well designed and reflected a commitment from both the Government and
implementing agencies that translated into an overall satisfactory implementation experience.
11



UME
46. Prompt action by TUBITAK headquarters and astute project management in UME led to an
efficient implementation of this component. Frequent consultations by UME during
implementation with other metrology centers led to an efficient allocation of funds within the
institute. However, tedious customs regulations in importing equipment affected implementation
negatively. So did the general rules for staff salaries that kept them low and special rules that kept
IBRD funds in Central Bank accounts, as well as rules that required the use of Treasury
controllers for yearly assessments of the project.
47. Implementation of the UME component could also have been improved by better
coordination between different MSTQ organizations to encourage complementarity of needs and
skills, as well as by strong leadership and decision making regarding the accreditation matter on
the part of stakeholders and lawmakers. An independent NAC could have led to an increase in
the number of accredited labs, which in turn would have given a boost to the demand for
metrology services in Turkey. This would also relieve the pressure on UME to conduct low
measurements for which UME is not designed. Lacking the accredited laboratories UME was
forces to function at all levels of measurement. Spending time on routine measurements rather
than developing new techniques and working on challenging problems also contributed to staff
turnover.
TSE
48. Implementation of the physical institutional improvement aspect of this component
proceeded well and industry regards the quality of TSE laboratory certification as rigorous and in
conformance with international technical standards.
49. However, some of the equipment could not be procured. TSE points to insufficient budget
allocation and some of the following factors as reasons for delaying the implementation: time
taken to find suitable land for the Quality Campus, time taken in architectural and engineering
design, delays caused by heavy rain, delays caused by revision of projects and bidding for the
construction, studies for preparing lists and bid document for laboratory equipment and delays in
delivery of some equipment by contractors.
50. Technical assistance and training plans that would have contributed to better institution
building and deepening of technical expertise were not implemented to their full capacity either.
Resources were shifted from TA/training to equipment purchases and it is not clear whether such
a redistribution was either justified or desirable. Finally, postponing training of staff until all
physical enhancements were complete may also have been as injudicious choice since that
relegates these important activities to very near or after the project closing dates.
51. The implementation of the Quality Campaign and NAC sub-component did not proceed well
- the conflict of interest between accreditation and certification led to disputes which received
considerable publicity in the press. The campaign was never launched and an independent NAC
not established until date. This dispute has been a deterrent to the growth of the private testing
and certification industry in Turkey.
12



TTGV
52. Implementation of this component has proceeded well and TTGV is regarded as a prestigious
institution making a significant contribution to fostering a culture of R&D among Turkish
industry.
53. Some aspects that could have benefited from greater attention are factors related to institution
building efforts that may have been emphasized inadequately during implementation.
*  Increased private sector focus reflected in hiring of key staff within the Foundation as well
as in the definition of the strategic vision of TTGV in technology development activities;
*  Greater emphasis on awareness raising among private sector in order to increase the number
of applicants for TTGV funding;
*  Better selection process to ensure uniformity in the quality of evaluators and supervisors of
projects.
*  Greater involvement from TTGV in terms of monitoring and tracking performance of
borrowing firms beyond simple repayment records.
*  Institutionalizing feedback mechanisms to improve the outreach, focus, and development
impact of the program.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
54. The Bank was on the right track in pinpointing the appropriate policy framework that was
conducive to ITD, emphasizing the importance of technology development to building
competitiveness, diagnosing the needs of Turkish industry and correctly identifying the market
failures associated with technology development. The design of the project reflected this analysis
as well as the lessons learnt from other bank projects on ITD.
55. During implementation, the project agencies found the Bank's performance to be
satisfactory, but delays in seeking no objections was cited as a source of frustration by some PIU
members. Note that these no objections were required from the Bank for all use of funds (by
TTGV) and the volume of requests prevented a quick turnaround.
56. Continuity in staff involvement from the Resident Mission office helped maintain a
momentum and link to the project's progress on a regular basis. However, more frequent and
intense supervision may also have been desirable on the Bank's part due to the intrinsic novelty
of many of the activities being instituted in Turkey through this program that needed greater
hands-on involvement. In the absence of intensive supervision, the efforts to respond to changing
conditions in the project or to monitor the details of implementation may have been partially
compromised.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
57. Borrower performance in terms of providing assistance and guidance to the agencies was
considered satisfactory. However, delays in providing no objections for use of funds was noted as
a major impediment by one of the project agencies. Also, approval of the Treasury was needed in
order to import equipment, or ship outside the country for repairs which was not always
expeditiously provided and remains a potential source of implementation delays in future
projects. Further, no objections from the Treasury and Bank were required for all spending by the
Central Bank, whether required by the Bank or not, and this was cited by agencies as a major
13



source of frustration during implementation. There were also delays in conducting annual audits
by Turkish Government Auditors. Given the delays and their poor quality, the audits were not
that useful to agencies in getting timely feedback. These issues should have been addressed by
simplifying procedural requirements from the Central Bank or moving the Special Account to a
commercial bank.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
58. The outcome of the project was an improvement in three important areas: The creation of a
culture of R&D among Turkish industry and increased private sector participation in technology
development in an economy that has traditionally been a passive importer of technology;
launching of a technology finance industry where none existed through the matching loans as
well as through the favorable legal and regulatory framework created for VC; and an improved
capacity and access to technology infrastructure and services.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABIUTY
MSTQ
59. The setting up of the metrology center has greatly enhanced measurement capabilities in
Turkey, lowering the costs of metrology to larger firms and making measurement facilities
available locally to smaller firms that would not have used them previously. The interaction
between industry and the center has helped develop new technological capabilities and stimulated
the establishment of private measurement and testing laboratories in Turkey. The emphasis
placed by UME on research as well as services is desirable, and the 'externality' it provides by
training technical personnel in the latest measurement techniques is valuable in sustaining the
newly founded private metrology industry. There is strong potential for the metrology
infrastructure created in Turkey to act as a central hub for the neighboring region.
60. However, further expansions in the primary metrology infrastructure are not self-sustaining
in spite of the record of growing demand from industry. This is because even though the benefits
can translate into higher productivity, increased competitiveness, market shares and exports for
firms, the cost recovery for provider institutions of these services rarely exceeds 30 percent, and
usually settles to around 20 percent.
61. The expansion and upgrading of the standards institute has helped industrial competitiveness
by improving quality standards and providing internationally acceptable certification to Turkish
exports. Building the new Quality Campus in the Istanbul area extends its coverage to an
important segment of Turkish industry. Some further improvements in the standards
infrastructure maybe sustainable through the increased income generation capacity as a result of
these expansions and investments.
Technology Finance
62. The catalytic impact of the Technology Development Fund has been significant and positive.
While some beneficiary firms conducted R&D before, most firmns were unaware of the benefits
of in-house technological effort or, if they were, of how to set about conducting R&D. The
project has helped by overcoming many of these information and perception barriers and by
guiding firms in the methodology of doing R&D. In this, it has helped launch in-house
technological activity in Turkey, and will contribute to better absorption and development of
14



technology in Turkish industry. By using university researchers as evaluators and supervisors, it
has created valuable new linkages between the 'science' and 'technology' sectors.
63. The culture created by this activity has just begun to permeate Turkish industry. While
interest and ability to undertake R&D have both been fueled through the project, and the
accession to the ECU provides the backdrop for demanding more of this in the near future, only a
very small fraction of industry has had a chance to benefit from these programs so far. Sustaining
this momentum created will require continued financial and technical assistance support to local
institutions in expanding their coverage and portfolio of instruments.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
64. The process of raising the technological capacity of industry in order to enhance
international competitiveness has been initiated well through this project. But because by its
very nature the path to technological development involves a slow process of learning and
adaptation to a new environment, it must be approached in a tractable manner commensurate
with the absorptive power of industry at that time -- as was indeed attempted through this
project. This leaves considerable scope for expanding the coverage and depth of the services in
question. Much more work remains to be done in terms of raising the awareness, access and
participation of the Turkish private sector in technology development activities. In particular,
the recent accession of Turkey to the ECU mandates that increased attentionbe paid to matters
of technological catch-up if Turkish industry wants to compete in global markets.
65. Foremost, industry's demand for refinements in measurement accuracy, and for rigorous
product specifications embodied in public standards continues to grow in all OECD countries.
Therefore, Turkish industry's needs are likely to increase substantially as it tries to move from
low-skill goods to technology and skill intensive products that demand precision, quality and
traceability to international standards. These requirements will place heavy demands on the
MSTQ infrastructure which would therefore need to be further expanded and strengthened.
UME would need to make stronger efforts to stay one step ahead of industry's needs and this
expansion would require strengthening of its institutional capacity to manage such a rapid
transformation. Currently UME serves only approximately 40 percent of industry needs-- an
increase in this coverage is needed so that smaller firms who cannot substitute these with
similar services available abroad, can have access to local infrastructure. Similarly, an increase
in private providers of routine and secondary metrology services is also needed, but this is
currently hampered by the lack of a body that can issue internationally recognized accreditation
to such second-tier labs6.
66. Firms are also responding to competitive pressures of freer trade by trying to upgrade their
technologies. Therefore, continued support for technology investments in the private sector
through a vehicle such as TTGV would become even more important towards maintaining a
culture of technology finance. While an awareness and market for technology development has
been created through TTGV's activities, there remains a large potential for building upon this
6 While a draft law for the establishment of an independent NAC is in Parliament, its passage is dependant on the
political scenario in Turkey.
15



initial success and carrying this momentum forward. With the initial learning period from this
project behind them now, future operations should be able to improve the project evaluation
criteria, the monitoring and tracking mechanisms, as well as give more attention to smaller and
newer firms - so that industry as a whole becomes more competitive. A more direct focus on
creating linkages between private firms and existing technology institutions could also be
attempted in future operations. Efforts to increase the awareness and availability of risk-based
finance such as venture capital ought to be continued and the private sector facilitated in setting
up such funds and companies.
67. Meanwhile, research institutions and universities can also help Turkish industry upgrade its
capabilities, but these institutions would have to be brought into the main stream by helping
them become better aligned to the needs of industry. Future operations can support a
restructuring program for universities and research institutions, as has been done in some other
successful Bank ITD projects. Along side this restructuring, private sector-led investments in
incubators and technoparks which attempt to bring industry, academia, and research institutions
together in order to augment their synergies could also be explored.
68. Finally, some attention will have to be paid to Turkey's Industrial Property Rights (IPR)
regime in order to facilitate technology transfer from foreign firms to domestic ones and also to
protect domestic innovations that result from newly undertaken technology development
activities. Future operations could support such a harmonization of IPRs within the WTO
framework.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
69. While liberalization, or globalization, can create pressures to upgrade technological capacity
among firms, in and of itself it is not enough to actually make it happen. Given the importance of
technological development in raising industrial competitiveness, specific market deficiencies
must be identified and addressed in capital and information markets, as well as in institutions.
Public support in launching proactive measures to inform industry of the benefits of R&D,
sharing in the risk, and guidance on research methodology is therefore critical until a deep rooted
awareness has gained momentum.
70. Proactive measures to stimulate enterprise R&D require the development of specialized skills
to evaluate and supervise technology projects on the part of the provider. A fairly long and
intensive period of learning is often required to develop these skills. The Bank therefore needs to
emphasize institution development through technical assistance, study tours, training and
intensive hands-on supervision to ensure that this learning is facilitated. The Bank's role in
disseminating lessons from other similar projects, bridging communication gaps between
different technology institutions in the country, and facilitating public-private partnerships must
be augmented to its fullest to deliver a substantial impact of the project.
71. It is always easier to launch technology development measures aimed at large, established
enterprises because they are most aware of their own needs. But a financing agency should be
willing to share in the technological risks involved in reaching out to smaller and start-up firms.
Encouraging risk taking in new activities is an important contribution, but can only be achieved
by emphasizing institution building from the very beginning of the project.
16



72. Leadership is important in launching new initiatives and programs. However, while visionary
and effective leadership should be rewarded, an equal if not greater emphasis needs to be paid to
ensuring that change permeates all levels of an organization in order for project activities to be
productive and sustainable in the long run.
73. When launching new activities, an emphasis on private sector participation in decision
making, either directly through involvement in managerial responsibilities, or indirectly through
the institutionalization of feedback mechanisms should be placed from the beginning in order to
ensure an alignment of the project activities to the beneficiaries needs. A culture change to reflect
a private sector focus is very difficult to acquire at an advanced stage of implementation due to
inertia and/or resistance.
74. Areas of potential conflict of interest should not be bundled together even for administrative
purposes. While such problems are not easy to predict and are situation-specific, being aware of
their potential occurrence from the design stage may prevent future embarrassment and
frustration for all parties concerned. Designing components in a market friendly manner will also
avoid the risk of any component becoming hostage to the political scenario.
75. Finally, the design of technology development projects needs to kept as simple and as
flexible as possible. Because these activities are usually new in most of Bank client countries, it is
hard to prescribe all the details of implementation up front. While priorities and strategies for
investment should indeed be clarified for each component as early as possible, the methodologies
for each country can be subject to experimentation and may be approached on a pilot basis where
possible. Close supervision should then follow to ensure that lessons from newly piloted
programs are promptly incorporated into the project.
76. Supervision of such projects should be maintained at an fairly intensive level throughout
implementation. Technology development is often a new activity for most institutions in
developing countries and its success depends on the ability of institution like the Bank to share
cross-country experiences with new comers, as well as the flexibility to incorporate any country
or institution-specific parameters into the implementation as they are discovered. This cannot be
maintained without intensive supervision. Further, given that these projects involve technical and
managerial expertise to be combined in areas that often Bank staff have little previous experience
in, the quality of Bank supervision can be greatly enhanced if external experts such as research
scientists, heads of research organizations and MSTQ organizations, venture capitalists etc. are
included in the missions. This will give credibility to Bank missions, promote a deeper
understanding of the issues faced in implementation, and enable dialogue and problem solving to
occur more smoothly and in a timely manner.
17



Part II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial    Partial       Negligible    Not
L______________________________________            ______________                applicable
|Macro policies                                                                   X
Sector policies                                                    X
Financial objectives                                                             X
Institutional development                           X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                                                         X
Private sector development            X
Other (specify)                                    .                             X
B. Project            Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
sustainability
_    _  _   _  _  _     Ix
C. Bankperformance  Highlysatisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                             x
Preparation assistance                     X
Appraisal                                  X
Supervision          _                     _                     x
D. Borrower performance  Highly              Satisfactory         Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                 X
Implementation                              X
Covenant compliance                         _ _ __ _   X
Operation (if applicable)  |                X X
||E. Assessment  |Highly           Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Highly unsatisfactory
of outcome       satisfactory
18



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Credit Title   Purpose                                        Year of     Status
Approval
Industrial Export   To support Turkey's drive for expanding industrial  1987     Closed
Development       exports and to improve the policy and institutional
(L290 1)         framework relevant to export finance.
Industrial Training  To support the government's efforts to improve the quality   1988  Closed
II (L2922)        of trained technicians for the industrial sector, to meet
urgent needs for well-trained technical and vocational
teachers in secondary, post-secondary, and non-formal
vocational/technical training.
Small and Medium  To help the government to meet the needs for SMI sector    1989  Closed
Industries 11 (L3067) by expanding SMI lending by financial institutions and
guiding a public agency in providing promotional and
extension services to SMI sector, including improvement
of SMI product quality and expanding.
Private Investment  To assist the government in its industrialization efforts by    1991  Closed
Credit (L3346)    providing long-term investment funds to private industrie
through a network of private financial institutions.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned        Date Actual
Identification                                                              23-Apr-88
Preparation                                                                 12-Mar-90
Appraisal                                                                    18-Jun-90
Negotiations                                                                 22-Jan-91
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                          28-Feb-91
Signing                                                                      5-Apr-91
Effectiveness                                             6-Jun-91           6-Sep-91
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second and third tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                       31-Dec-96          31-Dec-98
Loan closing                                             30-Apr-97          31-Dec-98
19



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94  FY95    FY96    FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal Estimate     5.1     10.4    22.7   28.4    18.0    15.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Actual                 0.0     0.0      5.2    7.1      6.8     12.7   25.9   25.5   13.8
Cumulative             0.0     0.0      5.2    12.3    19.1    31.8    57.7   83.2   97.0
Actual as % of        0.0%    0.0%    23.1%   25.0%   37.5%    82.5%     -      -
estimate
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators for project implementation not included in the SAR.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for project operation not included in the SAR.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(Each Project Agency should provide details of studies conducted under the project.)
Table 8: Project Costs
(US$ million)
1_______   ___ ESTIMATED                          ACTUAL7
Local    Foreign Costs  Total Costs Local Costs  Foreign Costs Total Costs
Costs                    _____
MSTQ               17.2         57.0         74.2        33.2         56.0        89.2
R&D                49.1         43.3         92.4        44.0         40.9        84.9
Venture Capital    58.0         37.6         95.6         -            -            -
UFr                  -           -            -           -           0.1          0.1
Total              124.3       137.9        262.2        77.2         97.0        174.2
7 Estimated
20



Table 9: Project Financing
(US$ mnillion)
ESTIMATED                                   ACTUAL-'
Local Costs Foreign   Total   Local Costs Foreign Costs Total Costs
Costs     Costs
IBRD                      5.0       95.0     100.0                   97.0        97.0
IFC                       0.0        5.1      5.1         -           -            -
Govt. of Turkey           6.2        0.0      6.2       10.8                     10.8
Private Sector           99.0       32.3     131.3      45.3                     45.3
Development Banks         4.0        0.0      4.0   __ _
TSE                       7.6        0.0      7.6       17.7                     17.7
Multilateral Donors       2.0        1.5      3.5               -                  -
Bilateral Donors          0.4        4.0      4.4        3.4                      3.4
Total                    124.3      137.9    262.2      77.2         97.0        174.2
Table 10: Financial and Economic Costs and Benefits
No formal financial or economic cost benefit analysis was undertaken for this project.
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Type of Covenants                                        Present status
GOT to take all actions to convert NQC into an independent  Not Complied
body for quality certification and accreditation (NAC) and to
establish framework for enabling competition in the provision of
such services by December 31, 1994.
TSE shall exercise through NQC the following functions: (a)  Complied with Partially
development of accreditation procedures; (b) supervision of the  (although technically complied
activities of the Professional Institute for Quality; and (c)  with, new arrangements to be
implementation of the media campaign.                    established following passage of
law for the NAC)
TSE shall ensure the examination by June 30, 1993 of its  Complied with Partially
certification and testing services in accordance with principles   (although technically complied
established by NQC.                                      with, is awaiting formation of
NAC)
All other covenants                                      Complied
8 Estimated
21



Table 12: Status of Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project compliant with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or OP/BP)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (actuals)
Stage of project cycle           Weeks              US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                116.8               306.4
Appraisal                                19.9               61.4
Negotiations through Board approval      7.7                23.9
Supervision                             134.1               355.5
Completion                               8.0                 10.0
TOTAL                                   286.5               757.2
22



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TURKISH STANDARDS INSTUTION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO 3296A-TU)
December 31st,1998



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TURKISH STANDARDS INSTITUTION
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3296A-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction:
1.    The financing requirements of the Technology Development Project to the portion
of the Loan corresponding to the equivalent of US$ 42.4 millions was allocated to TSE
account under the summarized categories:
Category           Amount of the            Percentage of the
Loan allocated         Expenditures to be
(US$, millions)          financed by IBRD
Goods                           28
- Directly imported                                     100
- Manufactured.locally                                  100
- Other items procured                              50 (inc. VAT)
Consultancy Services            2,0                      100
Training                         1,2                     100
Civil Works                     10.0                    .80
2.    The board of Directors reached a decision on the 12'h of August, 1991 (decision
no XI 44-1133) for the establishment of Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Under this
decision the Project Coordinator was given the powers deemed necessary for the conduct
and coordination of the activities under the said project. The personnel needed for the
initiation of the activities have been appointed to the PIU.
2



Project Objectives:
3.    The project objectives of TSE were:
(i) to construct a Quality Campus near Istanbul (Gebze/(ayirova), including the
laboratories and quality services facilities;
(ii) to establish a modem financial and management information system for a
more effective and productive development of TSE;
(iii) to implement the cost accounting procedures in TSE;
(iv) to improve managerial and organizational skills of TSE; and
(v) to establish NQC and undertake responsibility of secretarial duties , along
with the coordination and supervision of the Media Campaign's conduction and the
establishment of the Professional Board for Quality Assurance, accordingly establish
Project Implementation Unit to carry out these activities.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    The Qualitv Campus construction for its 19 buildings was completed by the end
.of December 1997. The budget of US$ 10,000,000 allocated for Quality Campus is
completely used. The contractor continues the construction in order to complete some
minor deficiencies. Acceptance procedures has been completed in May 1998. The
total cost of the Quality Campus of March, 1998, amounted US$ 22.225.621, in
which US$ 11,684,315.13 were financed by TSE's resources. Istanbul Regional Office of
TSE was moved to the Campus in October, 1997 with its 200 personnel. More members
of staff from TSE Ankara Headquarters and other regional offices were appointed to meet
the needs especially for the laboratories according their operational capacity improve.
Coordination of all TSE activities are planned to be coordinated from the Quality Campus
within 1999.
5.    The Institutional Development aspect of the Technology Development Project has
been considered with a particular priority given on the in-house training. Training has
been carried out in three categories: (i) overseas technical courses, (ii) in-house courses,
and, (iii) foreign language courses. Overseas technical courses were generally on specific
technical issues for our laboratory staff. In-house courses have been organized on
ISO 9000 related topics such as "Lead Assessor Training", "Quality System Audits and
3



Applications", "Training Trainers", and offered by competent training organizations such
as SGS Yarsley, Neville and Clarke, P-E Batalas. Some of the technical courses were also
performed in-house. Foreign Language courses have been offered. by several taining
organizations headed by Turkish - American Association and Turc - German Cultural
Association. Majority of the TSE personnel and senior staff have benefited from these
training courses, and accordingly, staff quality has improved remarkably.
6.    The central laboratories of TSE were established in the early '60s. They were
erected to identify the technical data to be embodied in the Turkish standards and to carry
out research into the applicability of the test methods to be used in the determination of
these data. Support and assistance were obtained from a number of organizations, headed
by the United Nations. The functions of the laboratories are to: (i) perform applied work
regarding the standards in the process of being prepared and provide support services to
ongoing standard preparation work, (ii) carry out the tests and countrol of the samples
taken for the certification activities, (iii) meet the special test demands of private sector
organizations, (iv) provide consultancy support regarding laboratory work, and
(v) execute studies with a view to permit TSE's laboratories to gain new and additional
capabilities. During the following years the laboratory surface was increased by about 50
percent, with the new invesments made to the personnel and equipment. However, there
were no more physical space at TSE's central laboratory complex area for the intended
test capabilities. For this reason, the introduction of the idea of the Quality Campus, along
with many other aspects, was considered as the best solution of the additional space
problem of the laboratories. Procurement of laboratory equipments for the Oualitv
Campus was started on 18th of December, 1995, through nine IFBs. The delivery and
acceptance tests of the goods procured through these IFBs had been completed and letter
of credits closed until the mid of 1998, Excluding IFB No.10 package No. 6.
Some of the equipments could not be procured due to insufficiency of budget allocated
for procurement qf laboratory equipments which are deemed vitally essential for
productivity of the'Quality Campus Laboratories. In search of a practical solution in this
matter, TSE has applied to the Bank as well as Undersecretary of Treasury, and also
submitted Terms of Conditions of the unprocured equipments together with a list,
covering their estimated costs . After having the approval of both W.B. and Treasury the
Loan 3296 A-TU was reallocated and the said equipments procured through the bid of
IFB No.10 and Intemational Shopping until the end of the year 1998.As of December
31't, 1 998,the procurement of laboratory equipments for Quality Campus through 10 IFBs
and International Shopping with and allocation of USD 28 Million in the frame of the
Technology Development Project, totaled USD 29.319.710 including USD 4.886.619
financed by TSE's own resources. (Table 1) The delivery of the equipments has been
accomplished before 31 st of December, 1998. Installation and training activities related
with the procured equipments are being proceeded presently. "Bid Evaluation Table"
reflecting the details on the basis of IFBs and Packages are given in Table 2
4



7.    A Financial and Management Information System (FMIS/MIS) Project was
contracted to a consultancy firm in order to establish a more effective and productive
development of TSE. The project consisted. of the following tasks: (i) financial
accounting,  (ii)  cost accounting,  (iii) budgeting,  (iv) management reports, (v)
management information system. Upon the completion of the FMIS/MIS Project in 1993,
the Accounting and Financial Affairs Department of TSE inputted the data into the entry
forms of the software and established the infrastructure for the system. Sample outputs
for cost accounting model were taken. The department proceeds in implementing the
project to their system. After the contracted firm has prepared the Analysis Report and
Sample Forms, appropriate programmes were drawn up depending on the additional
approval of the Bank. Personnel of the Accounting and Financial Affairs Department
were trained, and a system was established exclusive to TSE. At the time being, the
system proceeds perfectly with all of its functions. The same system have been set up
within the Quality Campus, and preliminary training courses provided for the involved
staff. Second training programme has already been scheduled in february 1998.
8.    A proiect for Computerization of TSE Activities was carried out to reach its
following six main objectives: (i) to serve as an information center for official standards
institutions, government, academic and indrustrial organizations, and public users, (ii) to
serve as an Electronic Bulletin Board System, (iii) to serve as a common world-wide
electronic messaging system for delivering and receiving information and documents,
(iv) to serve as a Wide Area Information Transfer System that will automate the
information transferring among the distributed LAN servers, (v) to serve as a general
purpose backup and archiving system that will have facilities for storing and retrieving
electronic images for all full standard-texts, TSE granted certifications' images, laboratory
reports, inspection reports, and any other document images kept in TSE departments for
archiving purposes, (vi) to serve as corporate distributed information processing platform
that will integrate software systems to be used in TSE internally. The project has been
terminated with all of its functions and accordingly, maintenance process has been started
relevant to the use of the programmes. Training for the users is almost accomplished. An
additional training course is organized with supplementary purposes. At present, all of
the above are actively running for TSE Headquarters. In addition, Electronic Bulletin
Board System which have been later on converted into Internet Service Provider (ISP),
and accordingly WEB pages were prepared for all TSE services particularly those on
certification and standards making.
9.    As a continuation of computerization efforts; (i) TSE  Quality  Campus
Management System, (ii) Quality Campus Hardware Sysytem, and (iii) Quality Campus
Information System and Services have been accomplished in the frame of IFB No. 8
(Procurement of Information Systems).
5



10.   The Board of Directors of TSE adopted a resolution in 1990 for the establishment
of National Ouality Council (NOC). Due to the fact that there were no established rules at
international level as to how the Council should be formed, the NQC initially conducted
its activities in collaboration with representatives from various public agencies,
universities and firms granted with TS-ISO 9000 certificates. However the rapid increase
in the number of firms possessing the TS-ISO 9000 cerificates and existence of many
associations, foundations and private sector organizations in the area, have made it
necessary to reorganize. In order to create a more efficient structure, the TSE General
Assembly commissioned the Technical Board of TSE (consisting of representatives from
private sector, public sector and universities) in 1994 to undertake the activities of NQC
that was to be called "National Council for Quality and Accreditation NCQA)". A
regulation defining this situation was put into force by publication in the Official Gazette
in 1995. NCQA then commenced its activities by electing chairmen and members of
"Accreditation Committees" as well as "Appeal Committees". Meanwhile, under the
leadership of Chief Counselor of the Prime Ministry, the Review Committee consisting of
representatives from TSE, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Undersecretariat of State
Planning Organization, Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, Undersecretariat of Treasury,
TUBITAK (Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) and TTGV
(Technological Development Foundation of Turkey) was formed to find a solution on this
matter. TOBB (The Union of Chambers of Commerce and Chambers of Commodity
Exchange of of Turkey) has later on participated in these activities. Reaching a
consensus, a draft law was formulated. Upon  submission of the "Draft Law for
Establishment of the National Accreditation Council" to the Turkish National Assembly,
NCQA became tran?itory, however, it continues to fulfill its previously determined
obligations. Due to the uncertainity in the implementing body for NCQA, quality
campaign and QAVC (Quality Assurance Vocational Council) could not be realized and
the fund allocated for NCQA was transfered to Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.  Due to preparation and planning of the activities, disbursment of the loan during
the first years, up to 1995 were rather slow. Its reasons were: (i) efforts exerted in order
to find a suitable land for the Quality Campus, (ii) loss of time due to designing
architectural and engineering projects, (iii) delay in starting the construction due to the
unexpected heavy rainy season, (iv) delay caused by revisions of projects and bidding
phase for the construction of the Quality Campus, (v) studies pursued for preparing lists
and bidding documents of laboratory equipment, (vi) delay in delivery of some of the
equipments, caused by the contracted firms. By the commencement of construction works
and engineering supervision services in the mids of 1995, remarkable acceleration was
6



recorded in utilization of funds. Procurement of laboratory equipments were started in
1996 to speed up the disbursments. Preparations to draw up a draft law for NQC, indeed
affected the related activities. Supported by its own resources, TSE has carried out
secretariat duties of NCQA, however Quality Campaign and QAVC activities suspended,
and respective funds have not been used.
Project Sustainability
12.   With a general evaluation of outcomes of the Technology Development Project to
the portion TSE is involved, it can be considered sustainable: (i) a Quality Campus is
constructed where TSE could improve and expand its services. (ii) the level of staff
quality and technical capabilities of TSE has improved significantly as a result of the
project. (iii) TSE has been furnished with technical facilities and information that enables
it to give further services in new fields, such as forming an information center to be of
service to Turkish industry and scientific bodies as well as international organizations.
Howeyer, it appears that new funds will be needed in order to maintain these resurts.
Bank Performance
13.   The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Bank
missions were helpful and guiding to meet the needs of TSE in the matters it faced during
that period. The Bank's performance during the implementation phase was also
considered satisfactory. Supervision missions were fielded at regular intervals and the
relationship with the Bank staff was excellent.
Borrower Performalice
14.   The performance of Undersecretariat of Treasury, on behalf of the GOT was
highly satisfacory in all aspects relevant to its relationship with TSE. Audit reports were
drawn up in strict scrupulousness. Treasury staff was always helpful in responding TSE's
demands, providing assistance and guidance, as well as arranging relationship with the
Bank as required. '
Assessment of Outcome
15.   From the point of view of TSE, the Project achieved most of its objectives, but it
took longer than planned. Its outcome is satisfactory, despite delays in implementation
which was caused, to a large extent, beyond its control .
7



Future Operation
16.   A plan for the future operations has been prepared, containing the following
arrangements: (i) additional test equipments will be purchased in order to fully equip all
laboratories, (ii) High Power Laboratory for short circuit tests will be established which
does not exist elsewhere in Turkey, as well as none of the Middle East and Balkan
countries involved in this type of testing, (iii) deemed as one of the most important
facility, an international information centre will be added to the quality center for use as a
communication medium  by the Turkish industry, scientific institutions and related
international organizations, which will also be able to provide service to all international
meetings,
Key Lessons Learned
17.   Several lessons have been learned: (i) implementing-body's own resources in
similat projects are of great importance in covering the unpredictable costs,
(ii) construction works are likely to create heavy obligations for the implementing body,
either in financial or executorial matters, (iii) when problems arise between the parties of
a project, solutions should be sought right after the emergence of the problems, (iv) sub
project performance can be improved substantially through close ex-ante and ex-post
review and supervision of the Bank, (v) a more scrupulous attention should be payed in
determining estimated costs to assure that they are the result of realistic calculations.
8



DISBURSEMENT SUMMARY-MARCH 31st, 1998-DECEMBER 31 st,1998
Category       Disbursed(USD)      Financed by TSE's       Total(USD)
resources(USD)
1-B                 24.433.092            4.886.619           29.319.710
2-B                  63.592,39             8.847,00            72.439,39
3-B                  185.628,76            1.521,23            187.149,99
4                  10.000.000,00         11.684.315,13       21.684.315,13
Total _            34.682.313,15         16.581.302,36       51.263.614,51



Appendix B
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION OF TURKEY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3296A-TU
January 1999






Evaluation Summary
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3296A-TU
1. The project objective was stated in the Staff Appraisal Report as (a) to stimulate private investment
in ITD by providing seed capital for projects that generate business-university collaboration (b) to
make research and development market driven by financing projects on a matching basis with the
private sector; and as to stimulate the private companies to invest in industrial technology
development in the Loan Agreement.
The objectives of the Foundation, which was founded to implement the "Research and
Development Component' of the project were defined as follows in its By-Laws:
* To provide funds and expertise supportive for industrial technology projects to enhance
technol6gy and technological infrastructure.
* To identify technological research areas which have potentially the highest effect on the
economic structure of the country and the carry out research and projects in such areas by
itselp or by contract with a view to bridging the technology gap between Turkey and other
nations and strenghtening Turkey's position in some global trade sectors.
- To encourage Turkish industry to increase in real terms its investments in research and
development and to carry out all activities in accordance with the requirements thereof.
- To assist in and encourage Turkish industry to the use of data and information that originate
from scientific developments.
- To strenghten the ties between the Turkish industry and higher education institutions, the
Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey and other public and private research
organizations through coordinated efforts and create scientists' awareness to the needs of
industry.
* To provide an example of "the best practice" in Technology Management.
- To identify the technologies which have broader application and promote their development
and open the borders between industrial sectors and scientific disciplines.
* To encourage Turkish and foreign scientists to carry out their activites related to the promotion
of the growth of the Turkish industry to raise it to an ideal level in a competitive international
marketplace and supply the industry, in the form of projects, with information originating from
such activities.
* To define, protect and develop strategies that will ensure Turkish industry to reach a reputable
platform at international level.
2. At present, there are three kinds of funds administered by TTGV;
* Technology Development Project fund through the World Bank loan,
* The Montreal Protocol Multiparty Fund made available through the World Bank,
* R&D support for the industry by the sources of the Turkish Government through the
Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade.
3



3. The following table is prepared to highlight realization situation of TD-I objectives by TTGV.
OBJECTIVES                                  REALIZATION
1. A foundation for World Class Technology as a  TTGV is established jointly by private and
R&D component                            public sectors
2. 43.3 MUSD WB Loan to be allocated as a   TTGV committed 43.3 MUSD to projects
government grant
3. Seed money for private sector investment in    Being realized partly by TTGV
ITD
4. Estimated cost for R&D:                  Local Private (55.02 MUSD)
Local Private (49.1 MUSD)               WB Loan  (43.3 MUSD)
Foreign    (43.3 MUSD)                  Total       (98.3 MUSD)
Total      (92.4 MUSD)
5. New Government R&D Support Mechanisms    Established under TUBITAK and TTGV
6. Strategic Studies for R&D                TTGV sponsors strategic focal point projects
4. The Foundation has been structured as a "vaktf which has the Constitutive Assembly as the
highest decision-making body and has been meeting once a year. The members of the Constitutive
Assembly have been selected on the basis of financial contribution to the TTGV and are drawn
mainly from the private sector. As of January 1999, TTGV has 56 Constitutive Assembly members
(Annex 1). TTGV has 9 member Executive Committee, three members of which are appointed
under the Foundation's Articles of Incorparation and represent the Undersecreteriat of Treasury,
TOBITAK and SMIDO (Small& Medium Industries Development Organization). Six members have
been elected from the Constitutive Assembly and therefore drawn from the private sector (at
present, two of them are the entrepreneurs of SMEs, two are from large companies and the
remaining two from the.,umbrella organizations). The foundation has a Secretary General, a legal
advisor, a technology,, group director, a corporate planning & finance director, 3 project
coordinators, 3 experts, 5 expert assistants, 6 support personnel and 2 accountants at present.
5. TTGV has a core list of 350 experts and supervisors from the universities, private and public sectors
who work for evaluation and supervision of the projects in order to strengthen the relationships
between the industry, universities and public research institutions.
6. TTGV accomplished,18 strategic studies in different fields in order to identify the industrial
subsectors, specific technologies and/or products having highest potential of economic gain &
dynamics of international comparative advantages. In addition to obtaining -sometimes first of its
kind- the critical data for a comprehensive picture pertinent to policy developing and strength-
weakness identification, the practice helped to accumulate valuable experience in the practice
helped to accumulate valuable experience in the assessment of comparative advantages in
important areas.
These strategic studies can be grouped into two categories:
i. Strategy Documents
* Industrial Strategy 1995-2005,
* Biotechnology Priorities for Turkey,
 Technological Innovation Survey in Turkish Manufacturing Industry,
 Reconstruction in the Agricultural Sector,
* Preparation of the Capacity Inventory for the Informatics Industry Software Services Sector
* The Capacity of Turkish Electronics Industry for Product Industry: Determination of the State
of Industry and the Measures for Global Competition
* National Strategy for Exportation
* Comprehending GATT Agreement
 Feasibility Study of Establishment of Technoparks
4



ii. Specific Technology Area Projects
. Materials
* Genetics
. Software
. Environment
* Innovation Capabilities of the Industry
* Pharmacy
* Agriculture
The total amount of support allocated to the above projects is 1,537,979 US$.
The continuation of support for such strategic studies through UFT (Undersecretariat of Foreign
Trade) loan is found necessary since it brings out resource and skills data in areas where the
economy might discover and develop competitiveness. Further emphasis is given to the areas like
informatics applications, software engineering and industry, wood and fumiture sector,
biotechnologies, agrotechnologies and seed improvement, food technologies, material technologies.
7. By its activities, TTGV created a technology development environment throughout Turkey. Since
the contracting of the first project on November 1992, 273 project proposals have been received for
the World Bank loan. The picture is given in the following table. Out of these 273 projects, 102
projects were accepted for support, 85 of them are completed and 17 are in progress.
PROPOSALS    SUPPORTED        COMPLETED    CONTINUING
1.TERM                        50              8               8              0
2.TERM                        17              4               4              0
3.TERM                        27             11              11              0
4.TERM                        14              5               5              0
5.TERM                        20              5               5              0
6.TERM                        28              9               9              0
7.TERM                        24             11              11              0
8.TERM                        14              9               9              0
9.TERM                        12              6               6              0
10. TERM                       66             34              17             17
TOTAL            273            102               85             17
8. As of January 28, 1999, TTGV has committed 43.3 million USD; 35,173,116 MUSD actually
disbursed to both technology development projects and strategic focal point projects and 4,601,024
MUSD is waiting for tte World Bank processes for technology development projects. Because of the
condition that at least 50% of the budget of each project contracted must be met by the partners,
TTGV has been able to create industry's own investment in R&D to the amount of 55.02 million
USD out of which 33 million USD was, actually disbursed. Total funds committed for research and
development by TTGV and industry partners has reached the 101.72 million USD level.
9.  The distribution of the technology development projects supported shows that three generic
technologies, namely, informatics, new materials and machinery are the leading fields. The nature
of these technologies made it possible that the majority of these projects turned out broad
applications and cross the boundaries of industrial sectors. Indeed, more than 60% of the projects
supported are in either one of these three generic technological areas. Sectoral distribution of them
are given the following table.
5



PROPOSED PROJECTS    SUPPORTED PROJECTS
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                    71        % 26          24       24%
ELECTRIC/ELECTROMECHANIC                  29        % 11          13       13%
MATERIALS                                 65        % 24          24       24%
BIO and AGROTECHNOLOGY                    30        % 11          13       13%
CHEMISTRY                                 24         % 9           5        5%
MACHINERY                                 37        %13           16       16%
OTHERS                                    17         % 6           7        7%
TOTAL                                    273        %1100        102      %100
10. The loan disbursed to Technology Development Projects is reimbursed by two types of
mechanisms:
  The first type was set for the very early projects of TTGV, which is called Royalty Type
Projects. The major drawback of this mechanism is that commercialization of product is
required for reimbursement of TTGV loan except the equipment expenditures. Since this
requirement brings the high risk of 'low reimbursement".
*  Inr order to eliminate the confusion of defining ucommercilization" of the project result,
"Installment Type Projects". In this type, reimbursements are planned according to an
Installment Plan.
For the strategic focal point projects, where the Foundation retains all the intellectual property
rights generated by the project, grant financing were applied. As foreseen in the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Foundation finances an agreed percent of the 'allowable full costs" for the technology
development projects executed by the private companies and 100% of "marginal costs" for the
strategic focal point projects executed by the research institutes or universities.
As of January 1999, 8.9 MUSD of the disbursed loan has been reimbursed.
11. The following 4 projects Fovering different sectors central R&D need, are particularly important to
be mentioned since they are based on generic technologies and will increase the competitive
power of the Turkish industry in the international markets and have also important role in the
fulfillment of Turkish obligations in carrying out of Custom Union and GATT Agreements.
 TTGV- 263 Cleaner Textile Center
The project is proposed to conduct R&D for developing cleaner production technologies to
assist the textile i,ndustry to comply with international manufacturing standards. As a major
textile exporting country, Turkey needs to improve her existing technologies and strengthen
competitiveness without degrading the environment as rewired by the international agreement.
The project therefore represents a vital economic concern. To realize these objectives, Cleaner
Textile Production Technologies Institute founded by textile industrialists and TTGV jointly
developed a technical laboratory leading by TCiBiTAK-MRC.
* TTGV-264 Electronic Center
The project is about expanding the R&D activity in the electronic industry. It was proposed by
the Electronic Industry Specialized Center Foundation to establish a research center. The
center will lease equipment and offer advanced testing services to improve the production
technologies for high quality products, and to create awareness for cost reduction in R&D. To
realize this objective, TTGV, Electronic Industry Specialization Center (ESIM) and KEMA
Intemational BV (Holland) jointly gave the necessary support and the joint stock company was
established.
* TTGV- 268 Tribology Center (Advanced surface treatment technologies
This is an advanced surface treatment technologies Tribology Center proposal to set up costs
reduction, production and product quality gain services including analysis, consultancy, training
and advanced surface treatment. The project is proposed by the Izmir Technopark Trade A.$.
(ITAO) and the joint stock company was established between TTGV, ITA~ and some
industrialists.
6



TTGV-272 Bio-Analytical Research Centre
The project aims at establishing an international reference centre which will operate with the
regulation published in the official paper no. 21942 for bioavailability-bioequivalence. The
centre will carry out research and projects in pre-clinicalbiology and clinical research. The joint
venture agreement and project contract have been signed.
12. A major national project is the TTGV-270 Software House project which is prepared in order the
support the establishment software house companies in Turkey. The project was initiated with goal
of software development included computer-based education needs of Turkey, however evolved
into a general purpose attempt. General framework involves the World Bank, TOBITAK and
UNIDO. The joint stock company has been established by TTGV, ITO Development Foundation,
METU Development Foundation, Izmir Technopark A.@, Foundation of Dokuz Eylul University and
Izmir High Technology Institute. A new business plan was prepared for the project upon the request
of the World Bank. Project proposals are being supported at the moment.
13. The Phase out of Ozone Depleting Substances Project (PODS) is consisted of two parts, PODS I
and PODS II, with a total allocated financial resources of 19.865.000.-USD; by two agreements
signed on January 1994 with an amount of 5.865.000.-USD and on October 1995 with an amount
of 14 million USD. This resource is made available to assist Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs)
using industries to effectively and efficiently phase out ODSs usage through the adoption of policy,
technological and monitoring measures. In order to achieve such objectives TTGV is responsible
on one hand, for the selection of demonstration projects to develop alternatives to enhance a
smooth transition for SME's to non-ODSs using technologies, and on the other, for to develop
country projects for large scale ODSs users. As of today, approximately 75% of the 500.000.-USD
made available for SMEs demonstration projects has been disbursed and 65% of 19.365.000.-USD
made available for country projects has been committed to 21 projects from refrigeration, foam and
solvent sectors. An Umbrella Project for refrigeration and several projects from sectors. Four non-
CFC projects from other sectors are under preparation. Under the First PODS Project, a survey
had been carnied out to Identify the ODS users. A seminar program had been performed to inform
5 relevant industrial sectors on non-CFCs and its technologies. There are completed and ongoing
demonstration projects in solvent, foam and refrigeration sectors.
14. TTGV has initiated the Science, Technology, Industry Platform to help creating a medium where
industry can exploit the developments in science. In the platf6rm, TTGV collaborates with
TlOBITAK and Turkish Academy of Science. The works of six policy study groups formed under the
platform were published and made publicly available, and presented to the attention of the policy
makers including the'Oresident of the Republic of Turkey.
15. By the Supreme Council of Science and Technology, TTGV has been proposed to be a member of
the Council and has been given important roles in the decisions taken on the 25th August 1997.
16. By the Technology Award, TTGV, TOBITAK and TUSIAD decided to reward the products having
creative, innovative, technically perfect and competitive properties and make them publicly known.
The applications for the first Technology Award were taken in 1997 and the award was given in
1998 in two different categories. Arcelik got the Grand Award with their project "Orbital Washing
Machine" supported by TTGV. In 1998, 27 companies applied with 29 projects for the Technology
Award. 7 out of these 29 projects had been supported by TTGV.
17. TTGV has become a member of TAFTIE (The Association for Technology Implementation in
Europe), which was founded to achieve development of new and better service possibilities in
entire industrial sectors and especially in SMEs and progress of technological information and
ability of member countries in industry by experience and information exchange, by the beginning
of 1997. TAFTIE. The other members of the Association are ANVAR (France), CDTI (Spain),
ENEA (Italy), RCN (Norway), SENTER (Netherlands), TEKES (Finland), ADI (Portugal), FFF
(Austria), FORBAIRT (Ireland), IWT (Belgium), NUTEK (Sweden), OMFB (Hungary), VDINDE
7



(Germany) and TECHNOPOL (Belgium). By this membership, the Foundation represents TOBITAK
and SMIDO of Turkey as well. TTGV participates in most of the activities of TAFTIE, as it is very
important to leam from the experiences and knowledge of the other organizations having the same
line of action with TTGV.
18. The idea of establishing a private, non-profit organization (ie. a foundation) to carry out the
research and development component of the Technology Development Project has been the most
important factor for project's success. Both as the Foundation had been established by the efforts
of the private sector, the Executive Board of which consists of 6 private sector representatives and
the necessity of financing at least 50% of the sub-projects by private companies are the key facturs
for achievement of the project.
19. Because of the successful realization of the Technology Development Project by TTGV, in 1995,
the Foundation has been given the responsibility for executing the R&D Support Funds of the
Turkish Govemment through the Undersecreteriat of Foreign Trade. To date, 52 projects have
been supported through this source.
8



Appendix C
UME INPUTS FOR TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
3296 - TU ICR
Feb 24, 1999
Assumptions in preparing the INPUTS
1. Actual Report will be prepared by IBRD
2. IBRD will combine all the INPUTS into one single input
3. IBRD will prepare the summary in the introduction using the combined inputs
4. Statistical Tables will be prepared by IBRD. UME will supply the information according to the format
supplied by IBRD. (Otherwise it will be very hard for IBRD to prepare tables by using various inputs
using different formats). UME can provide partial inputs to Tables 3 and 8A. Since UME does not
have the definitions and/or examples of the tables maybe it could be possible to contribute to other
tables as well.
5. Length of the text is adjusted so that in the final report UME portion will take approximately 2.5-3
single spaced pages.
INTRODUCTION
Currency abbreviations
ASH       Austrian Schillings
BEF       Belgium Franks
CHF       Swiss Franks
CND       Canadian Dollars
DEM       German Marks
DKK       Danish Kronars
FF        French Franks
GBP       British Sterling
HFL       Dutch Guilders
ITL       Italian Lirets
JPY       Japanese Yens
SEK       Swedish Kronars
USD       US Dollars
Abbreviations (English translation or definition in parenthesis)
BANK             (IBRD)
BIPM            Bureau International des Poids et Mesures
(International Bureau of Weights and Measures)
EURACHEM        (European Cooperation in Analytical Chemistry)
EUROMET         (Organization of European Metrology Institutes)
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



IMEKO           (International Measurement Confederation)
MAM             Marmara Aratirmna Merkezi
(Marmara Research Center)
NIST            National Institute of Standards and Technology
(National Metrology Institute of USA)
NPL             National Physical Laboratory
(National Metrology Institute of UK)
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PTB             Physikalisch - Technische Bundesanstalt
(Metrology Institute of Germany)
SG              Scientific Generics
(Consultants company specializing on scientific and technical investments.
Important source of information for UK on public investments for science and
technology)
SOE             Statement of Expenses
SPO             State Planning Office
TUBITAK         (Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey)
IJME            Ulusal Metroloji Enstitiusii
(National Metrology Institute of Turkey)
WB              World Bank, (IBRD)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
a) P'roject Objectives:
The objective relevant to UME is the first one, namely, "develop the MSTQ system to international
standards by (a) capacity building in the key public sector institutions and (b) establishing on
framework for greater private participation in the system".
This objective is very clear, realistic and extremely important for Turkey and probably very suitable to
the objectives of the Bank. Project was not very demanding for UME but it forced UME/PIU to work
very structured and modular way which turned out to be extremely useful for management point of
view. Initially this caused some complications for the top management of UME since they had to
comply with project and market requirements simultaneously. However after 18 months it was rather
straightforward to distinguish between the two.
S'ize and duration of the project did not cause any problems. Actually it was quite easy for UME to
finish the project at the beginning of 1996 if TDII was in sight. Initially, capacity of UME to use
IBRD funds was approximately 5 million USD/year. Now, UME easily can handle up to 20 Million
IJSD/year provided that UME portion of the Special Account to be not less than 5 Million USD.
IJME, using a very small PIU and with a very young staff, could easily adopt to any new conditions
generated either by the Bank or by other mechanisms.
b) Achievement of Project Objectives
With the investments realized through the project, all the objectives are achieved. We can group the
objectives as two main groups:



1. Establishment of the first group of measurement laboratories : For some time, Turkish Industry
needed reference laboratories for the measurements performed either during the production or for
quality control. Lack of national standards and reference laboratories forced the industry either to
obtain the relevant services from abroad or perform measurements without references. In both
cases, costs of the production increased considerably effecting the international competitiveness.
Government, realizing this problem, initiated a program of establishing national standards and
reference laboratories in order to support the industry and other areas such as research and
development, commercial measurements or any other measurement (such as medical ones) which
is needed for everyday life. Since the local funds were not appropriate IBRD contribution was
sought and 12.3 Million USD was allocated for TUBtTAK, 11.98 Million USD of which was
decided to be used to establish the first laboratories of UME. Towards the end of the Project, an
additional 1.3 Million USD was added to UME portion of the loan, raising the total amount to
13.28. Approximately 13.14 Million USD was used at the end of the Project. With that
investment, 25 laboratories are established satisfying approximately 40 % of national needs.
Once the necessary funds were found, UME was officially formed in January 1992.
Metrology section of the MSTQ system is now very well established and recognized domestically
and internationally.
2. Private sector participation: With the implementation of the Project, private sector participation in
the metrology increased tremendously. (Indicated by the number of calibrations done by UME
and by the number of companies which requested UME services such as calibration,
measurement, training, accreditation and consultation). UME, through the Project, could create a
completely new measurement sector from scratch. Industry accepted UME immediately and with
the guidance of UME, many new private laboratories were created. UME know-how also helped
govemment owned labs to confirm to the international measurement system. UME also studied
accreditation of laboratories and measurement related issues such as E, e, CE marking and type
approval. UME disseminated the information it obtained to relevant organizations through articles,
letters, lectures, seminars and panels. It prompted the awareness on the importance of
measurement and it also helped Foreign Trade Department and Ministry of Industry and Trade in
drafting rules/regulations for the Turkish Market.
UME believes that the Project was a great success such that many metrology institutes applied to their
governments for "World Bank Money". Visibility of UME on the international arena and acceptance
of UME to IMEKO (1994), EURACHEM (1997) and EUROMET (1997) after technical evaluation is
also another verification of success. On a similar move, German Government, after a technical
evaluation, decided to extend the German technical aid for three more years with additional 3 million
DEM. At the beginning of 1999, UME director was elected as a member of CIPM, elite group of 18
scientists in charge of implementing the Meter Convention and BIPM (international center for
metrology).



c) Implementation Record And Major Factors Affecting The Project:
c.1 Factors Subject To TUBITAK/UME Control:
Prompt reaction of TUBITAK Headquarters and managing PIU in a very efficient way had affected
the Project in a great deal. Decision making system used in UME was a distributed one namely each
unit is supposed to manage its own funds. Although this approach has more risks than a centralized
system, it worked efficiently for UME. One reason for that, was the coordination among
procurement, consultations and training. A laboratory did not decide to procure an equipment
before getting the necessary know-how either by consultations or training. So as NPL/SG report
stated, the money is well spent. For each decision, UME made use of the experience of its sister
organizations that have gone through the same evolution much earlier. UME participated quite
actively in international meetings so that frequently the opinion of more than one expert is sought.
Initially, UME staff was very inexperienced and UME made use of PTB know-how extensively.
Towards the end of the Project, most of laboratory heads knew all the major scientist relevant to
their work. It expended the pool of know-how available to UME. For example, UME Temperature
Laboratory, which is responsible for thermal measurements, is in contact with German, British, US,
French, Italian and Russian metrology institutes and uses the equipment manufactured for UME by
those sister institutes. Each of these institutes has a strong area, so UTME cooperates with each of
them separately for different sub-fields. Due to this approach, UME labs are established by the
advice and guidance of very capable experts (if not the best ones). This made the de-centralized
management work quite effectively.
c.2 Factors Subject To Government Control:
TUBITAK/UME component of the project was affected by the following rules
General rules for staff salaries
General rules for customs formalities
Special rule to keep IBRD funds in the Central Bank accounts
Special rule to use Treasury controllers for yearly assessments of the project
In addition to the TUBITAK/UME component, additional parameters affecting the Project that are
under government control
Lack of decisions regarding accreditation
Lack of coordination between the organizations involved in the MSTQ System
Lack of procedures which can make the usage of IBRD funds more effectively and efficiently
c.3 Factors That Are Not Subject To Government Control
As mentioned separately the most important factor for the implementation was the performance of
various IBRD departments. UME/PIU did not have any major problems with consultants,
contractors or suppliers which could affect the implementation.



d) Sustainability
When UME decided to conduct a feasibility study for the future projects, review of the existing
investments is also included in the study. Chapter 2 of the NPL/SG study for the "Study of the Second
Phase Investment in LIME" is dedicated for the existing investments. LUME believes and NPL/SG
Report completely agrees that "the money so far invested (approximately 26 500 000 USD of which 13
280 000 was provided by the IBRD) has gone a long way to lay the ground work and UME is making
its way in the international community of national measurement institutes".
UME estimates that it can fulfill the requirements of the Turkish Industry approximately at 40 % level.
UME is capable of sustaining the existing services if no new investment is made. Total income of
UME (from Turkish Government + own income from its services to industry) is sufficient to sustain
(financially) the existing investments. However the challenge is to recruit, train and retain suitable
staff.
UME was quite successful in recruiting and training its staff. The justification of this statement is the
fact that most of the UME staff could participate in the international activities such as international
comparisons just two years after they joined UME. Results of these activities are not only related to the
equipment used, but also on the personal performance and skills. This is something very hard to
achieve especially the average age of UME is less than 30 years. This shows the high efficiency of
recruiting and training. On the other hand, UME had a poor performance in retaining the staff it
trained. The main reason for the loss of the staff is the rules UME has to use in determining the salaries
and other compensation mechanisms. LTME is aware of the problem and working hard to find a
solution. Actually a new promotion system UME began to use at the beginning of 1998, reduced the
turnover from 33% in 1996 to 18% in 1998. This is the only risk in sustaining the existing investment
and services. UME has a good quality system in place and this system of management dampens the
effects of staff losses.
Although in 1996, UME lost 33% of its researchers, one can not detect it by simply looking at the
business results and/or statistics. 1997 was the second most successful year LIME had (after 1994).
However, despite the quality system, staff losses is the most serious problem for UME.
e) Bank Performance
Performance of the Bank could be classified as highly satisfactory in project identification, preparation
assistance, supervision and as satisfactory in appraisal.
For implementation point of the view, at different time domains, Bank behaved very differently. First
of all, while LIME had the same PIU throughout the implementation, Bank used 4 different operations
officers beginning with Mr.Oppenheim and ending with Mr.Goel. Some of these people wanted
Ankara office to do the approvals and give no-objections and some of them wanted to do all the
decision making themselves. Some times this caused irritatingly long delays (e.g. 3 - 4 months to get a
simple no-objection) resulting longer delays due to the expiration of the offer and necessity for renewal
of the quotations etc. PIU proposes to have some kind of a procedure for various levels of decision
making related to each project. Besides getting no-objections there were no problems with the Bank.
UME/P1U expects that in future projects the Central Bank will be convinced not to seek no-objections
for SOE spendings resulting much less load on IBRD. Thus getting no-objections will not be a problem



in future. In any case PIU was very happy with IBRD Ankara office. They were always there when
PIU needed them and they were very efficient in their responses. UME has benefited very much by
working with them.
f) Borrower Performance
Treasury: Initially Treasury was very slow in responding no-objections for using the funds. They
wanted to get the Bank's no objection first, before issuing their own. However after about 9 months,
they began issuing their own no-objection without waiting for the Bank's. PIU have experienced no
serious problems with this section of Treasury.
When an equipment is to be procured PIU needs a separate permission for importing goods from the
Treasury. This is a separate section and they are also involved whenever an equipment is returned for
repairs or for similar reasons. This section of the Treasury is not as efficient as the implementation
section probably due to heavy load in their hands. PITJ proposes to insert additional precautions in
future projects in order to prevent delays caused by this section.
Central Bank: Central Bank had caused one problem throughout the implementation. They wanted
a no-objection simultaneously from the Bank and the Treasury for all the spendings whether this is
within SOE or not. This caused lots of delays and unnecessary paper work and waste of resources
since almost 95 % UME spendings (in quantity, not value) is within SOE definition. UME was not
successful in convincing the Central Bank that for SOE spending a no-objection is not required. UME
efforts involved to send two Central Bank officials to the Bank Seminars. This was the weakest
element in the implementation.
T1JBITAK Headquarters : PIU expected TUBITAK to reach a decision on two issues
1. Incompatibility of TUBITAK and IBRD rules for the implementation,
2. Autonomy of UME
TUBITAK reacted promptly (within two months after the request of UME) by
1. Adopting a resolution that "Whenever a decision is to be made on the usage of IBRD funds,
only the IBRD rules/procedures will be used. TUBITAK procedures will have no effect for
IBRD funds".
2. Accepting the by-laws of UME and establishing UME as a semi autonomous institute within
TUBITAK. By that, UME was completely independent on the scientific and technical issues
as well as the financial issues related to IBRD fund usage. However UME remained
dependent on  the  TUBITAK  rules  for administrative  purposes  and  using  the
TUJBITAK/Govemment funds. On the other hand TUBITAK removed all the restrictions for
hiring 10 people for each of the first three years of the implementation (as required by the
loan agreement). In summary, TUBITAK behaved ideally for the implementation purposes.
PIU : Throughout the Project, PIU was kept very small by UME. This sometimes caused minor
delays in responding to some of the requests of the Bank or the Treasury. On the other hand, there
were no problems with spending, reimbursements, withdrawals and accounting. Weakest part of PIU
was reporting. UME will adopt its own procedures for reporting to the Bank, Treasury, SPO and
TUBITAK Headquarters, in addition to the requirements of the loan agreement. In future projects



UME will increase the size of PIU to 6 people so responses to information requests will be faster.
UME. is also investigating the means for electronic communication so that Bank/Treasury can get
some of the info from UME databanks directly without any paperwork.
g) Assessment of Outcome
For UME component of the Project, Outcome was highly satisfactory. UME reached all the
objectives and much more due to the implementation of the Project. As stated before, Project reached
its objectives and results are sustainable.
h) Future Operation
UME has two objectives in near future
1.    To expand its services that UME can fulfill the requirements of Turkish Industry at 90 -
95 % level.
2.    Restructure its organization and management so that serious problems such as retaining
staff could be solved easily. In order to achieve this, UME worked closely with Arthur
Andersen to review the organization, processes and individuals and developed a self-
assessment model specifically designed for UME so that any problems related to the
management of UME could easily be identified and solved.
UME knows quite well what to do for both cases and studying these issues for three years. But for
both cases UME needs "external" help in order to be successful. In the first case, UME needs
external resources to expand its services. Approximately 74 Million USD is need in order to complete
new investments. 42 million USD of this amount is the "core" money, which is essential for the new
labs, equipment and know-bow. 32 Million USD is the support money, which is needed to support
the new investments. In addition approximately 33.2 Million USD is needed to support and sustain
the existing investments/services. This should be supplied by UJME as support money. UME believes
that the "Core" money should be obtained from IBRD and the support money should be supplied by
the Government and other sources.
In the second case, UME needs to have the full autonomy so that it can establish its own rules and
procedures in order to manage various aspects of the organization especially the human resources
department. Naturally to obtain the full autonomy, UME needs the backing of TUJBITAK, SPO,
Government and the Parliament. Fortunately, TCJBtTAK and SPO are in full agreement on the
subject and last two governments supported the idea. TUBITAK has expended the autonomy UME
has at the end of 1998, so that it will be easier to solve the problems and implement the results of
Arthur Andersen study. UME expects that a law will be adopted by the Parliament establishing UME
as an independent entity (probably within TUBITAK) in couple of years.
i)  Key Lessons Learned
UME/PIU got a lot of experience in running a Bank Project. Future projects will be very easy to
manage, so, much larger and complicated projects can be handled. This Project was very useful to
consider in future that:
1. Project planning is extremely important. A detailed work plan must be ready before the project
starts.



2. There should be sufficient flexibility mounted in the loan agreement such that advances in
technology, equipment and know how should be accommodated by regular modifications to the
initial work-plan. This should be balanced with the idea of good planning at the beginning.
3. There must be a well-prepared meeting between the Treasury, Central Bank. IBRD and
implementing organizations and an "operational procedure" have to be prepared and approved by
all the parties. This procedure should define all the mechanisms for Project Implementation
especially procurement, dispersetment, various mechanisms of withdrawals etc.
4. Every year there should be similar "coordination" meetings to review the implementation. If
necessary, SPO should also be invited to join all the meetings.
5. Project termination is as important as starting. There could be complications at the end of the
Project.
6. There should be some joint feedback of IBRD & Treasury on the performance of the
implementing organizations, Central Bank and SPO.
7. Treasury should arrange meetings with other organizations involving procurement such as
Customs, and relevant sections of Treasury (not the one dealing with the Bank directly).
RESULTS: UME Proposes:
a) tJME should enlarge PIU for more efficiency.
b) C'entral Bank should be convinced not to seek no-objections for SOE spendings.
c) Bank should empower Ankara office for routine approvals/no-objections.
d) Treasury should ease the rules for import and temporary export license for the goods.
Last but the most important point: According to the loan conditions local contribution is need in order
to use the Bank resources such as all the taxes, transportation, insurance fees etc of the instruments. This
amounts approximately 25 % of the IBRD portion of the projects. In the first project TUBITAK was very
keen to support UME and always found the necessary funds in order to implement the Project despite all
the budget cuts made by SPO. UME was always on the "knife-edge" during the first project. Fortunately
there were no serious problems.
However, for the second project, the situation is far more serious. SPO should approve 10 700 000 USD
during the project for local contribution. This is approximately 2.5 Million USD first three years and 1.5
Million USD for forth and fifth years. Smooth flow of local funds should also be secured.
There are always problems of getting funds through SPO. SPO tends to think that "World Bank" projects
do not have the highest priority since the implementing agency has "lots of money". Of course this is a
self defeating view since lack of local funds effects the usage of IBRD funds very much. A solution to the
problem is dividing the implementing agency budget into two components. One portion which is used to
support IBRD funds should be controlled by the Treasury, rest by the SPO. Treasury could put all the
funds in one single account and make payments to the implementing organizations from that pool,
balancing fast and slow running projects. Then smooth progressing of the Bank Projects can be secured
from local funding point of view.



