Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3296 TU
                 (Technology Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
     SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION OF TURKEY
                                and
                    TURKISH STANDARDS INSTITUTE
                        Dated April 5, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3296 TU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SCIENTIFIC AND
TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION OF TURKEY (TUBITAK) and TURKISH
STANDARDS INSTITUTE (TSE).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that TUBITAK and TSE agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to TUBITAK and TSE in
accordance with different arrangements, including a subsidiary loan
Page  2
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TSE; and
      WHEREAS TUBITAK and TSE, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) TUBITAK and TSE declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, TUBITAK shall carry out Part A (1) of
the Project and TSE shall carry out Part A (2), (3) and (4) of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TUBITAK and TSE shall carry out their respective
activities under the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. TUBITAK and TSE shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and their respective activities
under Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 2.04. TSE shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, TSE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) TUBITAK and TSE shall, each with respect to
its activities under the Project, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and the
performance of TSE of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      (b)   TUBITAK and TSE shall, each with respect to its
activities under the Project, promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by TSE or TUBITAK of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                          ARTICLE III
Page  3
                   Management and Operations of
                          TUBITAK and TSE
      Section 3.01. TUBITAK and TSE shall each carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and technical practices.
      Section 3.02. TSE and TUBITAK shall each at all times operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and technical practices.
      Section 3.03. TSE shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) TUBITAK and TSE shall each maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures under the
Project.
      (b)   TUBITAK and TSE shall each:
            (i)   have their records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors of such scope and in such detail as
                  the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts as well as the
                  audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of TUBITAK and TSE thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify TUBITAK and TSE thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For TUBITAK:
            TUBITAK
            211 Ataturk Bulvari
            06100 Kavaklidere
            Ankara
            Turkey
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TUBITAK, ANKARA            90 4 43186 BTAK TR
                                          Fax:
                                             90 4 127 74 89
      For TSE:
            Turkish Standards Institute
            112 Necatibey Caddesi
            Ankara
            Turkey
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TSE, ANKARA                90 4 42047 TSE TR
                                          Fax:
                                             90 4 125 43 99
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TUBITAK or TSE may be taken or executed by
its President or such other person or persons as the President
concerned shall designate in writing, and TUBITAK and TSE, as the
case may be, shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                  SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
                  By /s/ F. Selekler
                                         Authorized Representative
                  TURKISH STANDARDS INSTITUTE
                  By /s/ F. Selekler
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
                    under Part A of the Project
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods of specialized nature or estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  6
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist TUBITAK and TSE in the carrying out of
their activities under Part A of the Project, TUBITAK and TSE shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
                      (Part A of the Project)
A.    Implementation Arrangements
1.    TUBITAK shall be responsible for the carrying out of the
      development plan for NMSI, referred to in Part A (1) of the
      Project. TUBITAK shall: (a) ensure the carrying out of such
      plan over a five-year period ending in December 1996; (b) inc-
      lude recruitment and training under such plan for not less
      than 10 new professional staff for NMSI in each of the years
      1991, 1992 and 1993; and (c) prepare and furnish to the Bank,
      by March 1 in each year during the period of carrying out such
      plan, a draft budget specifying the activities to be carried
      out during the following fiscal year and the sources of
      financing such activities.
2.    TUBITAK undertakes to complete by June 30, 1993, an examina-
      tion of its testing services according to accreditation
      procedures established by NQC.
3.    TUBITAK shall adopt, not later than December 31, 1991,
      procedures to ensure a degree of financial and managerial
      autonomy for NMSI adequate for the exercise of its functions.
4.    TUBITAK shall implement, over the period from the year 1991
      through 1993, a program to improve the overall efficiency of
      its operations, which shall include: (a) survey of the
      existing scientific and technological research structure of
      Turkey; (b) consultancy on the management of science and
      technology; (c) staff development; (d) technical consultancy
      in certain priority areas; (e) updating of laboratories of its
Page  7
      Marmara Research Center.
5.    TSE and TUBITAK shall each maintain the existence of its PIU
      with such resources and staff as shall be required for such
      PIU to provide all administration services under the Project.
6.    TSE shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A (2),
      (3) and (4) of the Project. For this purpose, TSE shall:
      (a)   establish the NQC under the Chairmanship of its Presi-
            dent and with representatives from the public sector
            (including TUBITAK) and the private sector;
      (b)   exercise through NQC the following functions:
            (i) development of accreditation procedures; (ii) super-
            vision of the activities of the Quality Assurance
            Institute referred to in Part A(4) of the Project; and
            (iii) implementation of the media campaign referred to
            in Part A(2) (iv) of the Project;
      (c)   carry out a personnel development plan, satisfactory to
            the Bank, for upgrading the skills of its staff, which
            shall include the appointment at TSE of a Business
            Development Director;
      (d)   ensure the examination, by June 30, 1993, of its
            certification and testing services in accordance with
            principles established by NQC;
      (e)   establish, by June 30, 1992, procedures to improve
            efficiency in the preparation of its industrial product
            standards; and
      (f)   complete, by December 31, 1991, in accordance with terms
            of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study of the
            feasibility of establishing testing laboratories to be
            owned and managed by industrial associations.
B.    Reporting
            TUBITAK and TSE shall jointly prepare, in conjunction
      with the Foundation, on a format satisfactory to the Bank, and
      furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on progress in the
      carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
