Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18758
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR.2380-CE)
December 30, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs)
1987: US$1.00         Rs 30.50            1993: US$1.00         Rs 48.25
1988: US$1.00   =    Rs 31.80             1994: US$1.00   =    Rs 49.41
1989: US$1.00         Rs 36.04            1995: US$1.00         Rs 51.25
1990: US$1.00   =   Rs 40.06              1996: US$1.00         Rs 55.27
1991: US$1.00   =   Rs 41.37              1997: US$1.00         Rs 58.50
1992: US$1.00         Rs 43.83            1998: US$1.00         Rs 65.11
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric system)
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
AEWG          Agricultural Extension Working Group
ASC           Agrarian Services Center
AERP          Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
ARP           Agriculture Research Project
CARP          Council of Agriculture Research Policy
CCB           Coconut Cultivation Board
DAPH          Department of Animal Production and Health
DOA           Department of Agriculture
EDU           Extension Development Unit
FET           Field Extension Team
FRG           Farmer Representative Group
GET           Guide (District) Extension Team
GOSL          Government of Sri Lanka
IDA           International Development Association
KVS           Krushikarma Vyapthi Sevaka (Village Level Extension Agent)
MAL           Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
PCC           Project Coordination Committee
PET           Provincial Extension Team
PC/PA/PS      Problem Census/Problem Analysis/Problem Solving
PMU           Project Management Unit
RTWG          Regional Technical Working Group
SAEP          Second Agricultural Extension Project
T&V           Training and Visit
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Managers:     Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali
Country Director:    Roberto Bentjerodt
Task Manager:        Terrence Abeysekera



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY-
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR. 2380-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................                                                               i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                  .                    i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .
B. Project Objectives .
C.  Achievement of Objectives                                  .2
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                             .6
E.   Project Sustainability .............  . . , . 6
F.   Bank Performance ..................7
G. Borrowqr Performance                                      .7
H. Assessment of Outcome                                      .8
I. Future Operations                                      .8
3. Key Lessons Learned                                      .8
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1   Summary of Assessment ..............................................          10
Table 2   Related IDA Credits ..............................................            11
Table 3   Project Timetable ..............................................              11
Table 4   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ................... 11
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................... 12
Table 6   Studies Included in Project ..............................................    13
Table 7A  Project Costs ...............................................                 13
Table 7B  Project Financing ..............................................              13
Table 8   Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................      14
Table 9   IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................    15
Table 10  Bank Resources: Missions ...............................                      16
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Mission's Aide Memoire ...............................                          17
Annex 2 Government Contribution to the ICR ...............................              27
Annex 3 Changes in Crop Output, Yields and Land Use Intensity ...................... 41
MAPS
IBRD Map No.23349R
IBRD Map No. 14076R2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 2380-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural
Extension Project in Sri Lanka for which a credit (2380-CE) in the amount of SDR 10.5
million (US$14.34 million equivalent) was approved on June 15, 1992 and made
effective on February 15, 1993. A sum of SDR 4.46 million (US$ 6.0 million equivalent)
was canceled in May, 1998. The credit was closed on June 30, 1998. The last
disbursement took place on September 30, 1998 at which time, the unutilized balance of
SDR 0.39 million (about US$.54 million at current exchange rate) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Terrence Abeysekera (Agricultural Economist), Nihal
Fernando (Irrigation Engineer) of SASRD and Simon Hocombe (Agricultural Extension
Specialist) of FAO-CP. Henry P. Gassner, SASRD Principal Operations Officer at
headquarters, served as the peer Reviewer .
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission in March 1998. It is based, among other documents, on a
review of the Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision reports and
project files as well as field investigations and discussions with the Bank staff and
GOSL officials associated with the project. The borrower and implementing agencies
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing data, arranging field visits and
discussions with project staff, providing comments on the mission's Aide Memoire
(Annex 1), preparing an evaluation of the project preparation (Annex 2), and commenting
on the draft ICR.
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 2380-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   IDA has supported agricultural development in Sri Lanka since the 1970s,
particularly through loans for rural development and irrigation. The Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Project (AEARP, Cr. 931 -CE) implemented from 1979
to 1986 aimed at introducing the training and visit (T&V) system of extension while the
Agricultural Research Project (ARP, Cr. 1776-CE) implemented from 1988 to 1996
aimed at improving the research output and strengthening links with the extension
system.
Project Objectives
2.    The major project objectives were to increase farmer income and agricultural
production by improving farm productivity through, inter alia, promotion of innovative
technology.  To achieve this objective, the project aimed  at: (a) strengthening
agricultural extension services by integration of existing extension services; improved use
of mass media; strengthened plant protection, quarantine and pest control activities,
provision of training and establishing a private sector pilot extension program and (b)
developing a national seed policy. The project objectives drew on past experiences and
were consistent with sectoral needs at the time. The project was designed with the
assistance of FAO-CP.
Implementation Arrangements
3.    The responsibility for implementing, monitoring and evaluating the project was
vested in the Project Management Unit (PMU) while the Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) served as the apex body responsible for coordinating inter-ministerial activities
and making critical decisions regarding project implementation. However, neither PCC
nor PMU attained the necessary flexibility and autonomy to execute their functions
effectively throughout the project life. Lack of effective coordination between the PMU
and the Provincial Councils in particular was a major hindrance to project
implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Overall, the achievement of project objectives of increasing farm incomes and
agricultural production was partial and unsatisfactory. The objectives of wider adoption
of new production technology; integrating the services of extension line agencies at the
field, district and provincial levels; introduction of a bottom-up approach for identifying
and providing solutions through PC/PA/PS process and establishing group extension
ii



methods were also partially successful. The pilot private extension program was not
implemented. Although a few innovative technologies have been adopted by farmers in
response to the project, their impact on farm incomes was minimal. The PMU performed
its administrative role satisfactorily but failed to set up the monitoring and evaluation
system. Following the mid-term review, the Bank proposed to restructure the project to
restrict it to selected districts in selected provinces, until the problems observed in the
functioning in the new systems could not be corrected. However, the Ministry of
Agriculture insisted that the project continue to be implemented on a nationwide basis,
leading to the eventual decision to cancel the project. The project was closed one year
ahead of schedule.
Establishing an Integrated Extension Service.
5.    Moving away from the traditional system of top-down, individual line agency
approach to extension with personal contacts with farmers was a major objective
underlying the project. With this in view the project made some progress in establishing
extension teams at the field, district and provincial levels. However, in most areas the
effectiveness of the extension teams in interacting with farner groups and providing
solutions to their problems was low. The activities of the extension teams in the provinces
often were confined to compliance with procedures needed to receive funding and other
support from the project. The level of integration of the activities of the four participating
extension agencies at the national level and their commitment to implement the new
extension system were less than required for project success.
Establishing Farmer Groups and PC/PA/PS Process.
6.    The objective of this component was to establish small groups of farmers with
common interests and similar resource endowments as an entry point for the extension
team working at the village level. The project goal of establishing about 20 Farmer
Reference Groups (FRGs) per extension worker was rarely achieved and in most FRGs
the number of farmers actively involved was fewer than expected. The extension
coverage of the project has thus fallen well below expectations -- estimated at less than
10% of farmers in the country as compared to SAR target of 20%. The new extension
methodology based on farmer group formation and the introduction of the problem
Census/Problem/Analysis/ Problem  Solving (PC/PA/PS)   process raised  initial
enthusiasm among extension workers and some farmers. However, most issues raised
through the process were associated with problems to which the field extension teams
could not directly provide satisfactory solutions. This led to an eventual erosion of farner
confidence in extension personnel, with serious consequences on project performance.
Dissemination of Innovative Technology.
7.    Promoting new agricultural technologies  was a major goal of the project.
However, except in some isolated instances, farmers, did not have the benefit of
accessing new technologies through the project. In fact, the project design implicitly
assumed that a large volume of research output would be generated by the IDA-funded
iii



Agricultural Research Project (ARP). The ARP, however, failed to generate new
technologies and with this failure, the extension system was starved of new technologies
for dissemination among farmers.
Research/Extension Linkages and Impact on Research.
8.    The linkages between the national research system, operated by the central
government, and the extension system operated by the Provincial Councils are extremely
fragile. There is little evidence to suggest that specific farmer needs identified through the
PC/PA/PS process were communicated to researchers to make any real impact on the
research agenda. The provincialization of crop and livestock extension system further
weakened links with the national research system, which remained a national
responsibility. Neither the National Agricultural Extension Committees  nor the
Provincial Technical Working Groups (PTWGs) established under the project became
effective in restoring research-extension links.
Use of Mass Media Approach.
9.    The mass media approach to extension planned under the project aimed at taking
advantage of the generally high farmer literacy in Sri Lanka. At the national level, mass
media communication approach received significant attention as reflected by the
emphasis placed on using printed material, local radio broadcasts, television programs.
However, at the provincial level, the mass media extension approach has received little or
no priority. In fact, most of the printed material produced by the DOA has not reached
the farmers mainly because Provincial Council funds were not available to purchase
them or due to lack of enthusiasm. The overall impact of mass media program at the farm
level could not be assessed.
Human Resource Development.
10.   This component was designed to provide training and related physical facilities
for the extension staff and farmers and also to bring in international expertise to
strengthen local extension capacity. Achievements are generally satisfactory and targets
were mostly achieved. There were some delays in implementing the short term training,
but these were later rectified. No forrnal evaluations of training of farmers and extension
staff are available. Two major foreign consultancies were used to assist the project, to
introduce the new extension methodology, and then to identify the problems and
improve the PC/PA/PS process. The latter consultancy proved less effective and resulted
in a collection of a mass of field information which could not be used productively.
Improvements in Plant Protection and Pesticide Control.
11.   The sub components for improving plant protection services and pesticide control
activities achieved 85% of physical and 90% of financial targets and have strengthened
government capability for regulatory activities concerning plant protection and pesticide
use.
Seed Policy.
12.   A seed policy approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in March 1996 is now in
iv



place. The policy provided extra impetus to the creation of a better environment to
reduce government involvement in commercial seed multiplication, and to transfer these
responsibilities to the private sector. Laws and quarantine regulations to put the seed
policy into effect are now being framed. A National Seed Board with private sector
representation for overseeing the seed industry activities has been set up.
Project Management.
13.   Despite some staffing problems, the PMU performed effectively in undertaking
most of its mandated functions including financial control, contract administration,
awarding fellowships and arranging training sessions. The M&E system, set up after a
long delay, was designed only to track physical implementation progress and compliance
with project procedures. Furthermore, major project management activities of the PMU
were largely influenced by the MAL limiting PMU's role mostly to routine
administrative matters. The project management tasks, in general, were complicated due
to the multi- institutional nature of the project involving 3 Ministries, 4 Departments and
8 Provincial Councils. The ineffectiveness of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
also led to major problems in project management.
Project Sustainability
14.   Overall, prospects for sustaining the project activities in the long-haul are poor.
The project failed in its efforts to convince farmers and the provincial officials of the
advantages of the group approach to extension and the desirable aspects of the PC/PA/PS
process. Most farmers have lost confidence in the new extension methodology underlying
the PC/PA/PS process and as a result, farmer groups formed under the project are
unlikely to continue without external assistance. A major problem for sustaining project
activities is the lack of commitment and resources at the provincial Council level.
Bank Performance
15.  IDA was diligent in project design, appraisal and initial supervision, though with
hindsight it appears that it took insufficient account of the potential vulnerability of the
project. The Bank fielded missions at regular intervals initially and flagged potential
problems. The Mid-Term review also identified a series of critical implementation
problems affecting the project to which the borrower failed to give adequate attention.
Contrary to the expectations of the Bank the project was viewed by most implementors
as outside their normal tasks. Since SAEP provided an assured source of funding, the
implementing agencies continued to comply with project requirements, only to the extent
needed to maintain access to vehicles, training or operating expenses.
Borrower performance
16.   Overall, the government performance was weak. Three fundamental factors are
responsible for this situation. Firstly, premature extension of the application of PC/PA/PS
methodology from the pilot area to cover the whole country, (b) overlaying the project
with "AMA program", a broad rural development approach introduced by the Ministry of
Agriculture, to which extensionists were required to give priority, and (c) weak
administrative linkages between the MAL and Provincial Councils.
v



Key Lessons from the Project:
17.   There are several important lessons to be drawn from this project. They are:
i)     There is an urgent need for a national extension policy which re-defines the
development roles of public and private sectors in agricultural extension. The current,
public sector operated extension system reflects a supply driven activity which shows a
meager response to the actual needs of the farmers. There is a high potential for the
private sector including NGOs to play a useful role in providing extension services to the
farming community. Attempts must therefore be made to exploit this opportunity.
(ii)   An enabling policy environment is a pre-requisite for successful implementation
of extension projects. Government must ensure a consistent, long-term agricultural
policy to which it is fully committed before investing in major projects with radical
changes to the extension system.
(iii) An extension system, built on a single extension methodology to cover all
farmers in all regions of the country is unlikely to deliver expectations. Sri Lanka has a
substantial diversity in farming systems within which the extension needs are highly
diverse. The extension needs of farmers vary substantially depending on a range of
factors including climatic endowments, access to resources, educational level and
commercial orientation.
(iv)   New extension methods should demonstrate their feasibility and acceptance by
farmers prior to implementation in the field on a larger scale. Costly and high intensity
extension systems that rely on individual contacts should be avoided, in particular, where
real opportunities for technological change at farm level are few.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 2380-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1. The Second Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 2380-CE) evaluated in this report was
prepared by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the World Bank with the assistance of
FAO-CP between June 1989 and February 1991. The project was appraised in July 1991,
negotiated in April 1992, and a credit of US$14.34 million approved by the Board in August
1992. The credit was effective in February 1993. The project was the first of its kind in Sri
Lanka, showing a major departure from the previously adopted Training and Visit system of
extension and relying on a mass media oriented, participatory approach. The project included
four participating extension agencies; the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Export Crops
Department, the Coconut Cultivation Board and the Department of Animal Production and
Health. The project commenced in 1993 and was scheduled for completion in 1999. However,
due to poor performance and the failure to show satisfactory progress the project was closed in
mid 1998.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The main objectives of the project were to increase farmer's income and agricultural
production in the non-plantation crop sector by improving farm productivity through, inter alia,
promotion of innovative technology. The objectives were to be achieved through:
(a)  Strengthening the extension services by:
i) creating an integrated extension system with a smaller cadre of better trained staff;
ii) establishing a participatory, cost effective extension methodology, involving mass
media techniques;
iii) strengthening the Plant Protection and Pesticide Control Divisions of the DOA;
iv) providing formal and in-service training to extension staff, training farmers, improving
physical capabilities of the national extension system and mobility of its staff; and,
v) implementing a pilot private sector extension program, to conduct specific extension
programs with smallholders and;
(b) Improving the production, import and distribution of seed and planting material by
institutionalizing a national seed policy that would enhance private sector participation in
seed supply and distribution.
1



Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    Overall, the basic project objectives were relevant and consistent with the needs of Sri
Lanka's non-plantation agriculture sector at that time. The objectives reflected the lessons
learned from the previous T&V system of extension on key issues including the need to achieve
cost containment via application of mass media extension approaches, group interactions, and to
upgrade the quality of extension staff. They also reflected a move away from the prescriptive,
input-oriented, top-down approach underlying the earlier T&V extension system. However, there
was no clearly established national agricultural policy to which the project objectives could be
anchored. As highlighted in "Sri Lanka: Nonplantation Crop Sector Policy Alternatives" (Report
No. 14564-CE, 1996), a complex of policy related factors are responsible for most agricultural
problems in Sri Lanka. These include a growing demand for non-agricultural labor, free
irrigation, import protection for rice, low labor requirement of rice, weak credit discipline and
restrictive land policies. Inadequate attention to analyze these issues and their impact on project
objectives is a major weakness in project design.
Project Cost and Financing
4.    At appraisal, the total cost of implementing the project including physical and price
contingencies, was estimated at US$18.32 million (Rs. 874.5 million). Of this, the IDA credit
amounted to US$14.34 million (SDR 10.5 million), about 78% of the total cost. The remainder
was to be financed by GOSL (US$3.79 million, 21%) and farmers (US$0.19 million, 1%). At
project closure, one year before the due date, the actual project cost incurred was estimated at
US$10.05 million, about 70% of the appraisal total. Of the actual cost, IDA contributed US$
8.02 million (80% of the total) and GOSL US$2.03 million (20%) with no contribution from
farmers. The IDA disbursement of US$ 8.02 million was about 56% of the appraisal estimate.
5.    A sum of US$6.0 million from the loan was cancelled in May 1998. The undisbursed
amount at project closure was about US$6.0 million. The expenditures for goods and civil works
were reasonably in accord with expectations, 110% and 80% respectively of the appraisal
estimates respectively. However, low disbursement rates were seen in pilot private sector
extension system (0%), mass media (19%), operational costs (40%) and training/technical
assistance (62%). The low disbursement of project funds was also a result of the depreciation of
local currency from Rs. 42.20/US$ at appraisal to Rs. 65.1 1/US$ at closure. A sum of US$1.05
million, 10% of the total cost, set aside for activities in the Northern and Eastern provinces was
not utilized due to the unfavorable security situation prevailing in these areas.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
6.     The project had negligible success in achieving three of its key objectives of: (a)
integrating provincial and national extension line agencies; (b) institutionalizing the Problem
Census/Problem Analysis/Problem Solving (PC/PA/PS) procedure as a means of identifying
2



farner problems and linking farmers to the extension and research systems; (c) promoting the
adoption of innovative technology; and (d) introducing a privately run, pilot extension program.
Evidence suggested that the project did not lead to significant increases in farm incomes and
productivity. In fact, the crop output, yields, cultivated area and land use intensities in Sri Lanka
show a major stagnation during 1990-97 (Annex 3).
7.    The project did, however, provide the extension agencies with strengthened operational
capacity in the form of buildings, equipment, vehicles, improved mass media support, training
and consultancies. It also helped to re-build the field level agricultural extension cadre to some
extent in two ways. Firstly, by bringing back 332 village level Administrative Officers (Grama
Niladharis) with diplomas in agriculture who were transferred from the then Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs to the Provincial Council administration. Secondly, the project
also brought back the Agricultural Instructors (AIs) and the Livestock Development Officers
(LDOs) who had been placed under Divisional Secretaries, to the Provincial Councils.
Establishment of an Improved Agricultural Extension Service
8.     Establishing an Integrated Extension Service. A primary objective of the project was
to move away from the traditional system of top-down, individual line agency approach to
extension with one-to-one meetings with the farmers to a participatory approach using farmer
groups and extension teams at the village level. Although the project made some progress in
forming Field Extension Teams (FETs), the actual effectiveness of these teams in identifying
farmers' problems and providing solutions was low. The effectiveness of the Guide Extension
Teams (GETs) functioning at the district level and the Provincial Extension Teams (PETs)
functioning at the provincial level coordinating and supervising the efforts of FETs, was even
lower. The activities of these extension teams were largely confined to compliance with
procedures needed to receive physical and training support from the project funds.
9.    Formation of Farmer Groups and PC/PA/PS Process. This component aimed at
establishing a large number of Farmer Reference Groups (FRGs) with common interests and
similar resource endowments as an entry point for the extension team working at the village
level. Although it was reported that about 11,000 farmer groups were formed under the project,
the majority did not seem to be active. The SAR envisaged establishing about 15 FRGs per
extension worker but this goal was seldom achieved and only in a few places was the extension
worker able to set up more than 10 active FRGs. The number of farmers per group also varied
significantly. Thus, the extension coverage of the project was well below expectations --
estimated at less than 10% of farmers in the country as compared to the SAR target of 20%.
10.   The new extension methodology based on group formation and the PC/PA/PS process
raised enthusiasm among field extension workers and some farmers initially. However, most of
the problems which surfaced through the problem census process were associated with irrigation,
land, credit, marketing, and the like to which the field extension teams could not respond.
Although the project design anticipated that such problems would be referred to other relevant
agencies for action, in practice this was not done in an effective manner. This led to a loss of
3



mutual confidence between farmers and extensionists. Thus, despite the large number of
PC/PA/PS sessions conducted by the FETs, the project was not suiccessful in solving most farmer
problems, promoting new technologies, establishing integrated farming systems or developing
effective time bound farmer action plans for development and diversification, as envisaged in the
SAR. Solutions offered to the farmers' problems through the PC/PA/PS sessions were more
often based on conventional, input-based recommendations with emphasis on paddy, reflecting
again the technical approach of the earlier T&V project.
11.   Promoting Innovative Technology. Promotion of new agricultural technologies among
farmers was a major project goal. Except in few isolated instances, the project did not contribute
to wider dissemination of new agricultural technologies. The project design implicitly assumed
that the IDA-funded Agricultural Research Project (ARP) would produce a stock of new
innovative technologies that needed active dissemination. However, as noted in its ICR, the
ARP did not generate many new technologies that are readily accepted by farmers.
12.   Research/Extension Linkages and Impact on Research. The linkages between the
national research system, operated by the central government, and the extension system operated
by the Provincial Councils are extremely fragile. The complete lack of participation of the
research scientists in the PC/PA/PS sessions has further weakened the linkages. Similarly, the
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), who were assumed in the project design to provide technical
support to extension teams at the farm level and to play a part in the PC/PA/PS process, spent
little time in the field. Specific farmer needs identified through the PC/PA/PS process have not
been communicated effectively to the research system to make any real impact on the research
agenda. Provincialization of crop and livestock extension services further weakened research-
extension links. Neither the National Agricultural Extension Committees nor the Provincial
Technical Working Groups (PTWGs) became effective in restoring research-extension links.
13.   Use of Mass Media Approach. The mass media approach aimed to reach farmers
through printed material, radio and TV programs. Between 1996 and 1998, DOA has produced a
large number of useful technical bulletins, leaflets and posters. The project has helped the
extension agencies to use Radio and TV programs more intensively. Despite the expectation in
the SAR that the private sector would play a major role in the production of communication
material, most of this was done by the DOA. At the provincial level, however, the mass media
extension system has received little or no priority. Most of the printed material produced by the
DOA has not reached the farmers, mainly because of the non-availability of funds in some of the
Provincial Councils to purchase them. There has been no assessment of the overall impact of the
mass media program at the farm level.
14.   Training and Consultancy Support.  Achievements in training are generally
satisfactory and most targets were achieved. By February 1998, of a planned 1,258 man-months
of long-term foreign training, 372 man-months of short-term foreign training and 4,000 man-
months of short-term, local training, achievements were 1,070 (84% of the SAR estimates), 184
(566%) and 2,153 (49%) man-months respectively. There were some delays in implementing the
short term training, but, these were later rectified. No formal evaluations of training are available.
4



Of the provision of 25 man-months of foreign consultancy, 23 man-months (92%) had been
utilized to provide two consultancies to: (a) introduce the new extension methodology, and (b)
to make the PC/PA/PS process more effective. However, the latter consultancy was of limited
use as it was focused on collecting a large volume of data with no arrangements to analyze and
provide feedback to the stakeholders.
15.   Private Sector Pilot Extension Activity. Despite repeated attempts by IDA to get this
component implemented, no results were achieved. The international consultancy provided by
the project to initiate work on this program was not utilized. The absence of a firm and clear
government policy on the role of the private sector in this activity was a major constraint in
implementing this component.
16.  Improvements in Plant Protection and Pesticide Control. This component achieved
85% of physical and 90% of financial targets and strengthened government capability for
activities relating to plant protection, pesticide control and registration activities.
17.   Civil Works.  The implementation of the civil works component of the project, is
satisfactory. This is mainly due to effective procurement management, contract awards and
follow-up by the PMU. Of 47 new buildings planned, 45 (95% of target) had been completed by
February 1998. Of 12 building renovations planned, 10 (83%) were completed and the remaining
civil works were nearing completion. The overall construction quality of buildings appeared to
be satisfactory.
18.   Vehicles and Equipment. Procurement of equipment and vehicles was also satisfactory.
Of the target of 740 items of equipment, 65 motor vehicles and 1514 motorcycles, the project had
procured 738 items of equipment (100%), 65 motor vehicles (100%) and 1,514 motor cycles
(100%).
19.   Seed Policy. A seed policy approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in March 1996 is now
in place. The policy provides extra impetus to provide a better environment to reduce
government involvement in commercial seed multiplication, and to transfer the responsibilities
to the private sector. Laws and quarantine regulations to put the seed policy into effect are now
being framed. A National Seed Board with private sector representation for overseeing the seed
production, imports and distribution activities has been set up.
20.   Project Management. Despite staffing problems, the PMU  played a key role in
carrying out most of its functions including financial control, contract administration, awarding
fellowships and arranging training programs. However, its failure to set up the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system for the project was a major shortcoming. The M&E system was set up
after a long delay, but designed only to track physical implementation progress. The project
management activities to a large extent, were influenced by the MAL limiting PMU's role
mostly to routine administrative matters. The PMU was not granted the level of autonomy
necessary to make the strategic management decisions needed to implement the project. The
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), though expected to meet at regular intervals to solve
major problems and to provide guidance to PMU, did not live up to expectations. In recognition
5



of the ineffectiveness of the PMU to undertake monitoring and evaluation functions, the
government in 1997 established an Extension Development Unit (EDU) under the MAL. The
EDU so far has not achieved much progress in monitoring and evaluation of the project. It
consists of few officers seconded from line agencies and has no fimn funding.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   The main contributory factors for the implementation delays/shortfalls were:
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.  The major factor was the
unsatisfactory security situation continued in the North and East throughout the project
implementation period.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. These include: (a) lack of a clear and
consistent national agricultural extension policy and the absence of a long-term vision for
developing domestic agriculture; (b) complex and uncoordinated institutional environment
within which the project was implemented; and (c) weak administrative linkages between the
Ministry of Agriculture and Provincial Councils.
Factors Generally  Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control.   These include:
(a) ineffectiveness of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to guide project activities and
to solve major problems and its failure to develop an effective partnership with the Provincial
Councils; (b) lack of an effective project monitoring and evaluation system at the Central
Government well as at the Provincial Council levels; (c) decision to expand the pilot phase of
the project to the whole country too rapidly without adequate assessment; and (d) overlaying the
project with a new rural development strategy (AMA) in 1995 by the MAL which competed
with financial and other project resources.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Overall, the project outcome is not considered sustainable. Despite some improvements
in human resource capabilities, infrastructure facilities and the mobility of the national extension
system, the project has not been able to institutionalize the new participatory extension approach
in the long-run. The efforts to form integrated teams of extension personnel operating at the
field, district and provincial levels came mostly from the project and remained as a project driven
exercise. The Provincial Councils have not displayed a strong sense of commitment to undertake
and continue the project activities. In some provinces, the early closure of the project has already
led to significant reductions in budgetary resources, resulting in cut-backs in field activities of
extension staff. While farmers initial response was enthusiastic, they have been disappointed by
the lack of follow-up to the PC/PAIPS process. Therefore, the viability of FRGs is uncertain.
6



F. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   Overall Status. The Bank was diligent in its efforts in designing, appraising and
supervision. It handled each of these activities in a relatively satisfactory manner, taking account
of views current at the time on how the role of the public sector in extension could be made
more relevant and cost effective through wider beneficiary and private sector involvement.
Nevertheless, the project failed almost totally to achieve its development objectives. With
hindsight, it is apparent that the Bank took insufficient account of the combined influence of the
following factors: (a) the challenges and risks posed by introducing a radically new extension
approach, involving major changes in the roles and behavior of government staff and farmers;
(b) low farmer demand for input intensive technical innovations and insufficiency of suitable
technologies to choose from; (c) the negative consequences of conducting a census of all
problems faced by farmers, without having under direct project control, the means to respond to
their non-technical demands; and (d) the long time required for provincialized extension services
to become established.
24.   Project Concept and Design. The identification and preparation of the project was
undertaken through the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO-CP). Overall, the process
of project preparation was guided by the experiences gained from the previous project. The
project was initially prepared as a broad activity aimed at supporting the agricultural
diversification and export promotion goals at a cost of US3 1.7 million. However, at appraisal its
scope was reduced to focus only on improving the extension services, while cutting the cost
down to US$18.3 million. In view of its innovative features and consequent risks associated with
the proposed extension methodology, the project was initially implemented on a pilot basis to
cover three Divisional Secretariat areas in three provinces. The expansion of the project to
achieve a national coverage by including all 17 districts only a year later was too rapid and was
undertaken without any evaluation of the results of the pilot exercise. The plan of expansion
including the criteria to be adopted as well as the timing, were not specified in the SAR or in the
Development Credit Agreement and this is a major design shortcoming.
25.  Supervision. IDA undertook regular supervision missions from October 1992 to March
1998 with a mid-term review in March 1996. While reviewing the implementation progress of
the project, the missions repeatedly drew attention to the implementational deficiencies. Delays
in setting up the M&E system, developing action plans for extension and the need to initiate the
pilot private sector extension program were flagged from the outset. Supervision missions were
ineffective in persuading Provincial Councils to implement the project as planned. In response to
increasing confusion arising from the launch of AMA in 1995 and the negative signals following
the Mid Term Review, the Bank identified SAEP as a "problem" project in March 1996.
Subsequently, in September 1996, the Bank proposed some remedial measures including the
introduction of the Extension Development Unit (EDU), formulation of an explicit national
agricultural extension policy, and the long-overdue introduction of a monitoring system. The
steps taken by the project to remedy the problems failed to show adequate progress.
7



G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The project was prepared by the borrower with the assistance of IDA and FAO-CP. The
borrower provided adequate attention to the appraisal of the project by IDA staff. However, the
borrower's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. A fundamental cause for this was
the failure of the borrower to give overriding priority to the project activities, as assumed by
IDA. Because of their pre-existing programs and commitments, most extension officials in the
provinces considered project activities as tasks additional to their normal duties. Failure to set up
an effective monitoring and evaluation system and the decision to overlay SAEP with the AMA
program affected the project adversely.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   Despite strengthening of the physical and human resources of the national extension
system, the project failed to deliver its primary outcome of establishing a more streamlined,
client oriented extension service which would raise farm productivity and incomes through the
transfer of innovative technology. It also failed to introduce the concept of private sector
extension activity. Neither the PC/PA/PS process of farmer participation nor the three tiered
institutional hierarchy introduced by the project involving village, district and provincial levels
extension teams is likely to survive without further assistance. Project performance in
introducing new improved technologies to smallholders was disappointing. The project has not
established a sustainable capacity to monitor and evaluate agricultural extension under MAL.
With its weak implementational performance, the project has failed to achieve an effective, low
cost outcome. The project did not have a significant impact on improving the environment.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
28.   The unplanned withdrawal of the project has left the national agricultural extension
system without adequate resources or direction. Modifications adopted in different provinces to
cope with the withdrawal of project funds show a significant disparity. The situation will only
improve when GOSL develops a clear and consistent national extension policy which recognizes
and responds to the farmers' needs while maximizing the potential contributions of private
individuals and farmer groups. It should be based on a well conceived vision of emerging
sectoral opportunities and constraints, and also compatible with the emerging local and global
economic changes.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   The following lessons can be drawn from the project:
i) Sri Lanka urgently needs a national extension policy which re-defines the
development roles of public and private sectors in agricultural extension:
Programs to develop agricultural extension activities have so far been solely driven
by public sector initiatives and resources, reflecting a supply driven approach and
catering little to meet the user needs. This approach has resulted in a sub-optimal use
8



of public resources, under-utilization of private sector initiatives. The absence of a
well defined and a consistent long-term national extension policy is a fundamental
cause that has led to these problems. Sri Lanka should therefore move towards a
planned, progressive disengagement of the public sector from extension functions,
wherever appropriate. Possible options for such a move would include: increased
reliance on private advisory services and input suppliers; NGOs and farmer
associations; and extensive use of mass media and farner groups for information
transfer. Costly and high intensity extension systems that rely on individual contacts
should be avoided, in particular, where real opportunities for technological change at
farm level are few;
ii) An  Enabling  Policy    Environment is a Pre-requisite  for Successful
Implementation of Extension Projects:Evidence gathered in this study suggested
that the demands made by farmers for new agricultural technology primarily depend
on the profitability associated with the adoption such technologies. In a policy
environment where the agriculture sector is stagnant with declining farm level retums
and off-farm employment is more attractive, only limited success can be expected
from any extension project. Therefore, as a development pre-requisite, it is necessary
for Sri Lanka to prepare a well conceived and an outward looking national
agricultural policy that would cater to the long-term needs of the country;
iii) A single, centrally operated extension system cannot meet the needs of all
farmers in all agro-ecological regions. Given the widely different ecological
endowments and farming systems adopted in various parts of the country, a single
extension system that is applicable to the entire country is unlikely to deliver
expectations. Also a clear distinction should be made between the extension services
demanded by commercial farmers, as against services demanded by subsistence
farmers. Commercial farmers, in general, demand conventional intensification
technologies and are often willing to pay for extension advice; and
iv) Introducing New Extension Methods should demonstrate their feasibility and
utility in pilot exercises before being adopted as the sole methodology for a
major investment project: It is also important to recognize that implementation of
extension systems involves a social-engineering process which requires significant
transformations of behavior and attitudes of many stakeholders including farmers,
farmer groups, extensionists, researchers and officials. The change process, even if
designed and executed properly, would require many years of sustained commitment
and nurturing by all stakeholders involved. Therefore, when radically new extension
methodologies are introduced it would be useful to try out the proposed new systems
on a small scale and to try to develop the necessary changes in stakeholder's attitudes
before commitment to a national project. It is useful to provide sufficient safeguards
in the DCA against the tendency to expand the pilot systems to a national scale before
the Bank is satisfied that they had been adequately developed.
9



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial      Partial    Negligible Not Applicable
Macro policies                        O           O            O           0
Sector policies                      O            O            E           0
Financial objectives                  E           0             l          O
Institutional development             O           0            El          0
Physical objectives                   0           E            E           E
Poverty reduction                     E           0            E           E
Gender issues                         E                        0           El
Other social objectives              E            Cl           El          0
Enviromnental objectives              E           E            0           El
Public sector management              E           E            El          E
Private sector development            E           E            0           0
Other (human resource development)    El          0            E           E
B. Project Sustainability        Likely         Unlikely          Uncertain
(/)             (1 )               (1 )
E              0                   E
C. Bank Performance       Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory        Deficient
(/)             (/ )                V/)
Identification                    El               0                 E
Preparation assistance            E                0                 E
Appraisal                         E                E                 0
Supervision                       E                E                 E
D. Borrower Performance   Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                       E               0                  E
Implementation                    E               E                  0
Covenant compliance               El              E                  0
Operation (if applicable)         El                                 0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome  Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
(9')        (9')         (9')            (9')
El          El    0                       El
10



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/                       Purpose                                          Year  of  Status
Credit Title                                                                 Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Agricultural Extension  Develop smallholder agriculture sector by         1982        PCR
and Adaptive research       improving and strengthening physical and                     issued
project (Cr 931 -CE)        institutional capabilities the research and                  in Apr.
extension system.                                            1992
2. Agriculture  Research  Improve and strengthen the Agricultural             1987       PCR
project (Cr. 1776-CE)       Research system                                              issued
in June
1997
3. Following Operations:      None
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned             Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                   Jun. 1989                Jan. 1989
Preparation                      Nov. 1990                Feb. 1991
Appraisal                        Jun. 1991                Jul. 1991
Negotiations                     Apr. 1992                Apr. 1992
Board presentation               Jun. 1992                Aug. 992
Signing effectiveness            Sep. 1992                Feb. 1993
Mid term review                  May 1995                 Mar. 1996
Project completion               Feb. 1999                Jun. 1998
Loan closing                     June 30, 1999            June 30, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93  FY94   FY95  FY96  FY97   FY98    FY99   FY00
Appraisal estimate           0.4    1.4    3.7   6.0   8.3    10.6    12.9   14.3
Revised estimate 1/
Actual                       0.60   1.36   2.34  3.68  5.71    7.99    8.02       -
Actual as % of appraisal     150   97       63   61    68       75      62
Actual as % of revised estimate  -  -       -     -     -       -
Date of final disbursement  September 30, 1998
1! US$6.0 million was canceled in May 1998
11



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR         SAR Estimated     Revised            Actual
1. Extension Staff:
Agricultural Instructors                                332               332              332
2. Plant protection Staff:
Research Officers                                         3                3                 3
Agricultural Officers                                     9                 3                3
Agric. Instructors                                        9                4                 4
Support staff                                            18                2                 2
3. Pesticide Staff:
Research officer                                          3                3                 3
Assistant Registrar                                       1                 I                1
Computer Programmer                                       1                 I                0
Support staff                                            12               12                 5
4. .PMU Staff:
Project manger                                           I                 I                 I
Others                                                   10               10                10
5. Civil Works:
Residences                                               41                41               40
Service Buildings                                         6                 6                6
Renovations                                              12                12               10
6. Equipment/Vehicles:                                         _______
Office Equipment (items)                                424              424               446
Training Equipment (Items)                               96               96               106
field Equipment (Items)                                   6                 6                6
Media Equipment                                          70                70               47
Lab Equipment (items)                                    38                38               1 8
Misc. Household Equipment (Items)                       106               106
Cars                                                       I                I                 I
Double cabs/ Jeeps/vans                                  63                63                63
Buses                                                      I    _I__
Motorcycles                                            1514              1514              1514
7. Training:
Long Term Training (Pers. Month)                       1258             1258              1070
Short Term Training (Pers.Month)                        372              372               184
Local Training (Sessions)                              4000             4000              2153
Demonstrations (Numbers)                               4200             4000              1773
8.. Technical assistance:
International (person months)                           18                18                92
Local (person months)                                    7                 7               114
Training of computer operators                          10                10                10
9. Quarterly Reports                                       26                26               24
12



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as Defined at    Status     Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Private sector   To study the existing  Completed    No clear cut private sector
extension initiatives in private sector extension   Sept. 1994.   extension activities on whole
Sri Lanka.          initiatives.                        farm approach identified.
2. CCB Extension    To prepare a proposal to  Completed    Support under SAEP extended
strengthening       support CCB            end. 1995    to CCB.
3. Gender study     To determine the       Completed    Need to increase participation
participation of women   March 1997   of women in extension
in SAEP                            identified.
4. Research extension  To provide guidelines for Completed    Agencies convinced about the
linkages            the extension workers               need to strengthen linkages.
and rubber growers in              DOA initiated formal meetings
selecting clones                   with provinces.
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ M) I/ Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
ITEM                      Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign        Total
Costs   Costs      Costs    Costs   Costs        Costs
Civil works                 0.30     1.90      2.20       0.22     1.21     1.44
Mach.    Vehicles    and   1.70      2.30      4.00       1.21    2.89      4.04
equipment
Training and consultancies  0.00     5.30      5.30       0.07    2.83      2.86
Contractual services        0.60     2.20      2.80       0.05    0.21      0.26
Incremental staff&          1.50     2.50      4.00       0.50    0.88      1.38
operational costs
Total                      3.90    14.20     18.30      2.03    8.02      10.05
1/ SAR-Annex 2, Table 1.
Table 7B: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal Estimate (US$M) 1/   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total   Local Foreign  Total    Cost
Cost   Cost       Cost      Cost    Cost
IDA                      4.9      9.44     14.34     4.72     3.30      8.02
GOSL                     3.8      0.0       3.8      2.03     0.0       2.03
Farmers                  0.18    0.0        0.18     0.00     0.0       0.00
Total                    8.8      9.44     18.32     6.75     3.30     10.05
1/ SAR - page v.
13



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement     Text reference   Covenant     Present     Original        Revised          Description of covenant                          Comments
type          status       fulfillment date  fulfillment date
.02b            I              C                                           Borrower shall maintain in US $ special Account in  In compliance
Central Bank
Schedule     P4.1             5             C            12/31/92       2/3/93          Establish Committee on Agric. Extension.          In compliance
P4.2 (a)         5            C            12/31/92        2/3/93          Establish PMU                                     In compliance
P4.2(b)          5            C            12/31/92        3/14/93         Recruit PMU staff Employ architect firm          In compliance
P 4.2            5            C            12/31/88                        Employ architect firm                            In compliance
P 4.3 (a) (b)    5            C                                            Employ Organizational and Extension specialists  In compliance
P4.4             5            C            12/31/92        2/3/93          Establish project coordinating Committee          In compliance
P4.5             5            C            12/31/90                        Establish Agric. Extn. Working Group             In compliance
P4 .6            5            CD           3/12/93         6/30/93         HRD Plan/Fellowship training                      In compliance
P 4.7            5            CD                                           Plan of action for improving Agric. Extension     Head not appointed
P 4.8            5            C                                            Mass media Contract Services                      In compliance
P 4.9. (a) (b)   5             NC          6/30/93                         Pilot extension program                          Not in compliance
P 4.10 (a)       5            CD           6/30/893                        Develop National seed Policy                     In compliance,
P. 10(b)         5            CD           6/30/93                         Implement seed Policy                            In compliance
P 4.11           5            CD           6/30/93                         Annual Program of activities                     In compliance
P .4.12          5            CD           6/30/95         3/15/96         Conduct Mid-tern Review                          In compliance
Status:                                            Covenant Class
C     - Complied with                        I Accounts/audit
CD    - Complied after delay                 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
NC   - Not complied with                     3 Flow and utilization of project funds
SOON - Compliance expected                   4 Counterpart funding
in reasonably short time            5 Management aspects of the project or its executing agency
CP    - Complied partially                  6 Environmental covenants
NYD  - Not yet due                           7 Involuntary settlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring reviewing and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross sectoral regulatory institutional action
13 Others
14



Table 9: IDA Resource: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle     Planned 1/             Revised 1/              Actual       2/
Weeks        US$        Weeks      US$       Weeks        US$
(000)                (000)                  (000)
Preparation to           N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A          59.8      157.6
appraisal                                                                                 I
Appraisal                N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A          67.8     207.6
Negotiations through     N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A           8.6       29.4
Board approval
Supervision             N/A        N/A         N/A       N/A          94.2     241.1
ICR Completion3/         N/A       N/A         N/A       N/A          14.0        3.9
TOTAL                N/A       N/A          N/A       N/A        244.4      639.6
1/ Estimates for original and revised staff weeks and dollar budgeting introduced only
in FY95 and therefore total original and revised staff weeks and costs cannot be
computed.
2/ Data from World Bank MIS
3/ Actual cost relates only to staff in Colombo office. Four staff weeks contributed by
FAO/CP
15



Table 10: IDA Resources: Missions
Stage of                Month/Year       Number  Days    Specialized                                      Types of
Project Cycle                            of        in       Staff Skills     Performnance Rating by       Problems
Persons  field    Represented a/                                 c/
Implementati   Developmen
on Status      t Objectives
FAO Initial Preparation  Jun/Jul. 1989   1         9       Ag.
assistance
Fact Finding Mission    Sep 1989         2         12       Ag (2)
Initial preparation    Sep/Oct 1989      5        25       Ag (2); Tr (1)
I ___________________                              ______   M k(l), Se(I)    _ _
preparation             Sep/Oct 1990     6         30      Ag (5),Mk (1)
Preappraisal            Mar 1991         5         20      Ag (4)            Ec(l)
Appraisal               Jun/July 1991    7         19      Ag.(3), Ec (1).,
l ______________________  ________________                  Se(2), Fe   (1)  _
Supervision 1           Oct/Nov. 1992   3          11      Ag. (2), Pr.(1),    I            I             -
Supervision 2           Mar/Apr 1993    1          17      Ag.,              1              1             -
Supervision 3           Oct/Nov 1993    2    _23           Ag (2).           2              1             -
Supervision 4           Mar/Apr 1994     1         17      Ag.               2              1             -
Supervision 5           Oct/Nov          2         14      Ag (2)            S              5             -
1994
Supervision 6           Apr/May 1995.   1          16      Ag.               S              S             -
Supervision 7           Mar 1996         3         2       Ag.,Ec.,Gn.
_ _ _ _ _ _               _   _     _   U              U
Supervision 8           Oct 1996         1         17      Ag.,.             U              U             M
ICR                     Mar 1998         3         8       Ag(2) En(l).      U              U             M
a/ Staff specialization: Ag. - Agriculturist; EC - Economist; FA - Financial analyst, En- Engineer, Gn-
Gender specialist; Mk- Marketing; Pr-Procurement Specialist; Tr- Training Specialist.
b/ Performance ratings based on IBRD and IDA - implementation summary Form 590
(before FY94) =1- Problem free; 2- Moderate; 3- Major problems, Implementation/development impact
status
(from FY94) = HS - Highly satisfactory; S- Satisfactory; U- Unsatisfactory; HU- Highly Unsatisfactory
c/ Types of problems: T - Technical; M - Managerial; and F - Financial.
d/ Project identification.
e/ Information not found in project files.
f/ mid-term review.
16



ANNEX 1
SRI LANKA: SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 2380-CE)
March 2-20, 1998 Final Supervision/ICR Preparation Mission
Annex 1:Aide Memoire
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    The mission, comprising Messrs. Terrence Abeysekera (Agricultural Economist),
Nihal Fernando (Irrigation Engineer) and Simon Hocombe (Senior Adviser, Extension
Specialist, FAO/CP), carried out the final supervision of the implementation of the
Second Agricultural Extension Project (SAEP) and gathered material to initiate drafting
of the project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR), during March 2 to 20, 1998.
2.    After initial discussions in Colombo with the key staff of the concerned Ministries
and Government Departments, the mission made field visits to Central (Kandy, Matale
Districts), North Western (Kurunegala District), North Central (Anuradhapura District)
and Western Province (Colombo District). The mission had meetings with senior project
staff in the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Coconut Cultivation Board, the Departments of Agriculture, Export Agriculture and
Animal Production and Health, and with the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
Extension Development unit (EDU). Contacts were also made with the Council for
Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) and the Extension Department of the University of
Peradeniya. In the provinces the mission had discussions with provincial, district and
field level project staff and farmers. The mission would like to thank all the staff
involved for arranging the field visits, for the support extended, and for the good working
relationship established.
3.    This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's observations, main issues and
recommendations discussed at the wrap-up meeting held on March 20, 1998, chaired by
Mr. S. Jayaweera, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (MAL).
Project Background
4.    The project was a follow-up to the previous IDA-funded Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project (AEARP), which introduced the Training and Visit
(T&V) extension methodology to Sri Lanka. AEARP was implemented from 1979 to
1986 with moderate success; it helped to establish an institutional framework for
extension on all crops except tea and rubber, and to strengthen research-extension
linkages. It failed however in its aim to unify crop and animal husbandry extension and
did not use a whole farm extension approach, nor seek to develop a village-level process
of needs identification and basic planning.
17



5.    The Second Agricultural Extension Project was prepared between 1989 and 1991
by GOSL with IDA assistance and was appraised by an IDA Mission in July 1991. It
was designed to be implemented over six year period (1993-1999). In addition to
improving extension services through a new, more participatory, approach described
below, the project design provided financing for improved use of mass media, training,
strengthened plant protection, quarantine and pest control services, safer and more
effective pesticide use, and a pilot private sector extension program. It had a separate
small component to prepare an improved national seed policy. These activities were
backed by an extensive training program.
Project Objectives
6.    The objective of SAEP was to increase farner income and agricultural production
by increasing farm productivity through, inter alia, promotion of innovative technology.
In particular, the project sought to introduce a new extension methodology having a
whole farm, bottom-up planning approach, with preparation of local, district and
provincial-level extension plans on the basis of farmers' expressed needs. The
methodology involved creation of an Integrated Agricultural Extension Service (IAES)
based on a three-tier structure comprising Field Extension Teams (FETs), Guide
Extension Teams (GETs) and Provincial Extension teams (PETs). FETs include field
extension staff of the two provincial line agencies dealing with crop and livestock
extension, and of the national agencies responsible for coconut and export crop extension.
FETs were required to identify and prioritize the needs of Farmer Reference Groups
(FRGs) composed of farmers with similar production interests, using an interactive
problem census, problem analysis and problem solving (PC/PA/PS) procedure. In
addition they were expected to develop individual farmer action plans and field extension
plans at the Agrarian Service Center (ASC) level. The Guide Extension Teams and
Provincial Extension Teams were responsible for the consolidation of ASC-level plans
into district and provincial extension plans.
7.    The project's objectives were considered important and relevant to the needs of
Sri Lanka's non-plantation crops sector at the time. Following a period of relative
stagnation, GOSL had been searching for nearly five years for a successor to the previous
T&V extension project, which had led to initial productivity gains but had latterly shown
a reduced impact and became financially unsustainable. The new project approach, based
on problem solving by fanners and extensionists acting together, embodied progressive
ideas on farmer participation and demand-led design of extension programs.
Previous Mission Findings
8.    Following implementation difficulties detected by a Mid Term Review (MTR) in
March 1996 and a subsequent supervision mission in November 1996, SAEP was rated a
problem project; it has remained in that category. Following MTR recommendations, the
Ministry adopted some measures to address the problems identified. However, a follow-
up IDA supervision in November 1996 observed that the status quo had remained
unchanged. Despite such attempts, the present mission observed that the changes have
still had limited impact in improving implementation effectiveness. Agreement was
18



reached between the borrower and IDA in November 1997 to close the project one year
early, on June 30, 1998.
II. MISSION FINDINGS
Establishment of Extension Cadre
9.    As specified in the SAR, the project was successful in transferring 332 village
level administrative officers with diplomas in agriculture from the Ministry of Public
Administration to Provincial Councils, to function as Agriculture Instructors (Als). The
project also enabled the transfer of AIs and Livestock Development Instructors (LDIs)
from the Divisional Secretariats to the provincial line agencies. These two initiatives
resulted in the establishment of the planned extension cadre at the field level, having
more direct lines of command.
Human Resources Development and Consultancy Support
10.   The progress of training is satisfactory. Of a planned 1,258 man-months of long-
term training, 310 man-months of short-term training and 4,000 man-months of local
training, achievements are respectively 1,052 (84% of the SAR estimates), 174 (56%) and
2,153 (54%) man-months. Although there were some delays in implementing the short
term training, these have since been largely rectified. Short-term local training focused on
the introduction of the new extension methodology and was supported by operational
guidelines written by project staff. Longer-term and overseas training aimed at more
general enhancement of extension skills. No formal evaluations of training are available.
Of 4,200 planned farmer demonstrations, 1,773 (42%) have been implemented. Of the
provision of 25 man-months of foreign consultancy, 23 man-months (92%) have been
utilized, to provide technical assistance firstly with the introduction of the new extension
approach, then to introduce modifications to make problem analysis more effective; the
latter international consultancy also helped to formulate a monitoring and evaluation
system. The 3 months of consultancy provided for formulation of the seed policy were
not used.
Mass Media Program
11.   Taking advantage of the generally high level of farmer literacy in Sri Lanka, this
component aimed to establish a cost-effective communication strategy to reach farmers
using printed and electronic media. Progress has been made in producing printed
material, radio and TV programs, but the overall impact of this activity cannot be readily
assessed. Mission observations suggest that the printed materials are being used by
fanners as well as school children, and some of the costs are also being recovered from
users as intended. Despite the expectation that the private sector would play a major role
in the production of mass media, the bulk of the mass media material was produced by
the DOA itself. Greater use of private sector contracts for mass media production, as
intended by the SAR, could have reduced delays.
19



Farmer Reference Groups (FRGs)
12. - The project design stipulated that each extension worker at the village level would
establish 20 to 30 FRGs, with each FRG consisting of 20 to 30 farmers. This plan
expected to cover about 20%  of the total farm  population.  However, mission
observations indicate that on average extension workers have seldom been able to
establish more than 10 active FRGs, that the number of active members of FRGs are
often only two or three, activities of FRGs have fallen drastically in the recent years, and
relatively few active FRGs now remain. As a result the actual coverage of farm
population by the project is far below expectations.
Integration of Extension Line Agencies
13.   Field extension officers of the four line agencies that comprise the FETs, which
are based in Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs), have shown varying levels of
cooperation in implementing the extension program. Whether instances of good
individual cooperation at field level reflect the impact of the integration of extension
services, or comradeship of a group of officers working in the same environment, is
difficult to distinguish. At the national, PET and GET levels the coordination and
interactions among members are highly variable, but generally weaker. The lack of
integration at higher levels appears largely due to (a) the presence of complex
organizational arrangements and linkages within the system, and (b) continuing priority
which the line agencies are required to give to their original work programs such as
subsidy disbursement and input distribution for coconut and export crops. These have left
less time than was anticipated in the SAR for joint PC/PA/PS activities. Thus, contrary to
the project objectives, SAEP has been no more successful than the previous T&V project
in forging a fully integrated national extension system.
PC/PA/PS Process
14.  In its initial stages of implementation the project gave prominence to problem
census at field level; problem analysis and solving were introduced much later. Many of
the problems raised by farmers in the FRG problem census sessions concerned irrigation
or non-technical matters which were outside the direct control of the FET members. The
declining performance of the FRGs noted above is partly attributed to a loss of mutual
confidence between fanners and FET members because of the inability of the latter to
offer solutions to irrigation and non-technical problems raised by farmers. Furthermore,
there has been a tendency for technical extension plans developed by FETs to be
dominated by existing technologies aimed at single commodities, primarily paddy. In
addition, farmers and extension staff alike have found the documentation required by the
PC/PA/PS methodology cumbersome and time-consuming, especially the requirement to
draw up detailed farm plans for each FRG member. Consequently, over time, farmers
have lost interest both in participating in the PC/PC/PA process and in attending group
meetings.
Research-extension links
15.   Responsibilities for generating new technologies through research are a national
responsibility, while the responsibility for providing much extension is with the
20



Provincial Councils. Provincial Technical Working Groups were proposed during
implementation to foster the flow of information from the research centers to the farmers
and vice versa, but have not become effective. Currently the formal links between the
provincial extension system and the research centers are limited to Regional Technical
Working Group (RTWG) meetings held once in six months. Thus the project has done
little to improve research-extension links. The mission saw little evidence that the project
farmers' demands had influenced the research agenda.
Extension Impact
16.   Many extension recommendations framed by FETs were focused on conventional,
packaged or input-based intensification technology, rather than being dominated by the
systems-based, holistic approach implied by the SAR. There was also an emphasis on
paddy which contrasted with the stress in the SAR on promoting commercial agriculture,
diversification and subsidiary food crops. Nonetheless, certain low-cost or no-cost system
based recommendations were issued. Those for Integrated Pest Management and deep
ploughing in paddy, alternative uses of paddy straw to boost soil productivity, and maize
planting on paddy land in the Yala season, were better received by farmers than most
input-intensive recommendations.
Pilot Private Sector Extension Program
17.   The project was to prepare a plan of action for the introduction of a pilot
extension program that would operate on a fee-for-service basis. Following repeated
reminders by supervision missions to mobilize this activity, some tenders for private
extension contracts were sought by newspaper advertisement. Although some bids were
received, no contracts were awarded. Lack of response by potential private suppliers of
extension services may reflect the generally low profitability of investment in agriculture,
low expected rewards, and the absence of a favorable extension policy environment.
National Seed Policy
18.   A seed policy satisfactory to IDA, involving disengagement of the government
from commercial seed multiplication, and transfer of responsibilities and some facilities
for this part of the seed chain to the private sector, is now in place and was approved by
the Cabinet of Ministers in March 1996. While there was already a trend towards greater
involvement of the private sector in seed production and distribution, the inclusion of a
covenant under the project requiring the government to prepare a national seed policy
provided extra impetus to formalize this transition. Dependent seed laws and quarantine
regulations to put the policy into effect are now being framed by a National Seeds and
Planting Materials Committee and its sub-committees.
Plant Protection and Pesticide Control
19.   The components on plant protection and pesticide control achieved 85% of
physical and 90% of financial targets. Support for plant quarantine, anticipated at
appraisal as possibly coming from the Government of Japan, was provided from that
source. Project support has strengthened DOA capability for activities relating to plant
protection and pesticide control.
21



The Project Coordinating Committee
20.   Because of the devolution of crop and livestock extension responsibilities to the
provinces and the involvement of separate national extension line agencies to handle
coconuts and export crops, project progress from its inception suffered severely from
coordination problems and weak lines of authority. The Project Coordination Committee
(PCC), established as the apex body to deal with all aspects of implementation, appears to
have had limited influence in improving project progress. The PCC included as much as
forty representatives from provinces and the center, and although it was expected to meet
and review project progress at least once in three months, meetings were few and far
between.
Extension Development Unit
21.   Subsequent to the limited success of the project in implementing the training
strategy and extension program, an Extension Development Unit (EDU) was created in
March 1997, following the November 1996 IDA supervision mission. The EDU was also
given monitoring responsibilities, taken over from the PMU following its lack of progress
in this regard. The EDU includes seconded representatives on a full-time basis from each
of the four participating extension agencies and the PMU. With the initial consultant
assistance, progress has been made in defining a planning and monitoring system for
integrated extension programs. However, the monitoring system has been criticized by
the provincial and lower level staff who are required to operate it as excessively time-
demanding and complicated. For this reason, and perhaps also because the provincial
agencies anticipate the imminent closure of the project, their response to these EDU
initiatives has been hesitant. But although the EDU has so far not achieved much progress
in establishing and coordinating provincial level monitoring units, the mission believes
that, if further strengthened, it could play an important future role in defining and
backstopping the future development of agricultural extension in Sri Lanka (see para.
37).
The Project Management Unit.
22.   Overall, the Project Management Unit (PMU) satisfactorily carried out the
majority of the administrative responsibilities allocated to it in the SAR, despite
difficulties in recruiting or retaining staff in some categories.  There were some
implementation delays compared to SAR estimates, and the times required for
bureaucratic procedures and consensus-forming among implementing agencies were at
times under-estimated: but ultimately the PMU successfully handled project fund and
budget allocation to the participating agencies, maintained satisfactory accounts,
reviewed statements of expenditure, provided assurances of eligibility of project
expenditures and claimed reimbursements from IDA. Project audit is up-to-date. The
PMU also satisfactorily supervised the architect engaged to oversee the planning and bid
specifications for the civil works program, handled bidding and procurement, and
successfully assisted the award of project-funded fellowships.
22



23.   A shortcoming of the PMU was its failure, despite repeated prompting from IDA
supervision missions, to establish the project monitoring and evaluation system called for
at the start of project implementation. The PMU also failed to secure from the
Agricultural Extension Working Group (AEWG) the operational plans for the installation
of the SAEP extension methodology, which that group was required under the SAR to
generate. No benchmark surveys were made of the pilot areas, against which progress
could be measured.
24.  It was envisaged under the SAR that the PMU would be assisted in day-to-day
project operations by the provincial line agencies. As indicated above, they did not
commit the expected resources to the project and hence their assistance was less than
anticipated. The PMU was not delegated with the authority under the project to
overcome this type of inter-institutional implementation problem and was not backed by
a Project Coordinating Committee which could exert such authority from a higher level.
Civil Works, Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles
25.   Progress of civil works is satisfactory; of 47 new buildings and 12 building
renovations planned under the project, 35 buildings (76% of estimate) and all renovations
have been completed. The remaining civil works are nearing completion. The progress
of procurement of equipment and vehicles to support IAES operations is also satisfactory.
Of the target of 738 items of equipment, 65 motor vehicles and 1,514 motor cycles, the
project has procured 705 items of equipment (95%), 65 motor vehicles (100%) and all
1,514 motor cycles. Vehicles, motorcycles and equipment have greatly facilitated field
operations, especially by increasing the mobility of extension staff.
Project Disbursement
26.   At project appraisal the estimated project cost was US$18.3 million, of which the
IDA credit was US$14.3 million. About 10% of total project cost was set aside for project
activities in the Northern and Eastern provinces in the event of a cessation of civil unrest:
since the unfavorable security situation persisted, no project activities could be carried
out. Of the IDA credit, a total of US$7.5 million had been disbursed by the end of
February 1998. With the anticipated work program for the remaining project period, a
total of US$6.0 million are estimated to remain undisbursed by project closure in June
1998, including the 10% earmarked for the North and East.
II1. OVERALL ASSESSMENT
27.   SAEP has shown limited success in bringing field staff of the extension line
agencies to work together to introduce a team/participatory approach and establish an
integrated extension system at the farm level. The mission assesses the overall
implementation progress and achievement of these institutional development objectives
of the project as unsatisfactory. Even the few organizational achievements are for the
most part unsustainable. The commitment of resources by the higher levels of the
extension line agencies to the SAEP extension approach remains weak, so that the
23



national agricultural extension system overall remains largely unintegrated and
ineffective. The mission considers that the new methodology which was the core of the
project design is unlikely to persist following project closure. This limited impact can be
attributed to various factors which are summarized below and will be further analyzed by
the mission in the Implementation Completion Report.
Policy Issues
28.   The project was not anchored within a sound sectoral policy framework, nor a
clearly articulated national agricultural extension policy and implementation strategy to
which all the potential implementing partners had committed themselves in advance. An
agreed extension policy would have ensured that all parties gave an extension project
their undivided commitment. An agreed implementation strategy based on that policy
would have resolved in advance the question of how diverse extension line agencies were
to merge their efforts: it would also have included expansion criteria to prevent over-
rapid expansion of any untried approaches.
Design Issues
29.   The mission considers that there were probably five factors which affected project
outcome - some but not all of which received sufficient individual consideration during
design, but the potential aggregate effect of which was given insufficient weight.
  The challenge posed by introducing a radically new modus operandi to
government agencies over a relatively short time.
  A relative scarcity of new technology to extend.
.  More limited progress than had been hoped for with government efforts to
improve the profitability of agriculture and stimulate the transition to commercial
agriculture, and hence lower than anticipated demands from farmers for technical
innovations.
*  The inclusion in the farmer consultation process of means to articulate non-
technical problems, but without placing the means to respond to all these non-
technical demands under direct project control.
*  The unforeseen length of time required for provincialized extension services to
become established following decentralization of responsibilities.
Implementation Issues
30.   The project proceeded from its inception in a rapidly changing environment
resulting from recent devolution of crop and livestock extension services to the provinces
and subsequent reorganization of the DOA. Implementation, vulnerable in principle due
to the combination of design factors cited above, was directly undermined by two further
causes.
24



*  Failure to secure effective "ownership" by the national provincial extension line
agencies: because they were kept principally accountable for their pre-existing
programs, application of the project extension methodology remained an
additional activity, not one into which they could safely merge their efforts.
* Repercussions of government decisions, first to expand project coverage at the
early pilot stage to cover the whole country when data to show the effectiveness
of the methodology were not yet in hand; and second to introduce the new rural
development strategy, AMA, which gave overriding priority to interaction
between a wider range of line agencies - beyond simply extension - with different
types of farmer groups.
Bank Performance
31.   Project concept and design. The project design was ambitious in assuming that a
major change in extension methodology could take root in six years. Although most
project risks were individually taken count of, with hindsight more consideration could
have been given to risk arising from the combination of factors potentially able to impede
implementation.
32.   Supervision. IDA undertook 12 supervisions during the project period. The
missions made detailed reviews of implementation progress, discussed with the borrower
deficiencies in implementation, and gave helpful advice. However advice tended to focus
on implementation of the SAR blueprint rather than its early adaptation to emerging
constraints. Only when major implementation problems were more widely recognized
did IDA recommended a range of reforms: but IDA continued uncertain for some time
whether to push forward with these reforms or to close the project early. This further
weakened such government commitment. The consultancies, were focused mainly on
extension methodology, and hence not of help in resolving other problems.
Borrower Performance
33.   The project was prepared by the borrower with the assistance of IDA. Borrower
staff participated adequately in preparation, and in appraisal and supervision of the
project by IDA. Although with delay in some instances, the borrower eventually
complied with all credit covenants except for that on private pilot extension.
Procurement, accounting and audit performance were satisfactory. When the project ran
into implementation problems the borrower commissioned two internal reviews, the
second commissioned by the Hon. Minister, to inquire into causes. The mission
understands that findings of the latter review were broadly convergent with its own
findings. The project was, however given mixed priority by the borrower, leading to
mixed signals to the implementing agencies, variable levels of commitment, and
ultimately leading to its disappointing outcome for reasons both within and outside the
control of individual implementing agencies.
25



Key Lessons Learned
34.   Two general lessons can be learned from the project.
(i) Innovative extension approaches should be successfully piloted in a
country before forming the basis for a major lending project. Whenever
possible, representatives of intended implementing agencies should
furthermore see such approaches in action on the ground elsewhere before a
major financing decision is made, to assess for themselves the utility of the
new approach to their own needs.
(ii) Before committing themselves to a major investment in technology
transfer, decision-makers should give attention to ensuring that an adequate
flow of new technologies which are attractive to farmers can confidently be
expected, and that sectoral profitability and other external factors are
sufficiently conducive to innovation by farners.
IV. NEXT STEPS
Project Closure Decisions and Actions
35.   Following the agreement between the borrower and the IDA in November 1997, it
is expected that the PMU will: (a) not begin any new activities under the project: (b)
expedite the ongoing balance procurements and civil works based on the agreed work
plan and complete all those by April 30, 1998: (c) settle tuition fees and per diem
allowances for the agency staff who are already undergoing project sponsored long-term
overseas training which continue beyond project's closure: and (d) close the project by
June 30, 1998 enabling automatic cancellation of the unutilized credit amount, a total sum
of US$6.0 million, approximately.
Processing of the Implementation Completion Report
36.   The Government is required to prepare its own evaluation report. Guidance on
format will be provided from the Bank's Colombo office. It is expected that the
government will submit this report to the IDA no later than April 30, 1998. This report
will be attached by the missions to the final text of the IDA ICR. The combined
document will be submitted to the Government for comments.
Future Directions for Agricultural Extension
37.   The mission was encouraged to learn that a Presidential Task Force has recently
been set up to make decisions on the future directions of agricultural extension. It would
be logical to expand and strengthen the newly-created EDU to provide intellectual
backstopping to the Task Force and undertake subsequent monitoring of progress.
Mission suggestions on possible future directions for agricultural extension in Sri Lanka
are given in Annex 1.
26



ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
( CR. 2380 CE )
Annex 2: GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Executive Summary
The Second Agricultural Extension Project ( SAEP) became credit effective on
3rd February 1993. Consequent to an agreement reached between the Government of Sri
Lanka and the International Development Association in November 1997, credit closed
on 30th June 1998, one year ahead of the scheduled completion date.
Financial Performance, except in the case of Mass Media, Pilot Extension
program and the Operational Expenditure was satisfactory. Due to the depreciation of the
SL rupee against the US dollar and the US $ against the SDR the project cost at Project
Closure was SLR 901.4. The project closed with a total expenditure of SLR. 562.35
million as against and SAR target of SLR. 901.4 million( 62 %).Total disbursement by
IDA at credit closing date was US $ 7.81 million which is 54% of the Credit.
SAEP awarded 36 Civil Works contracts and all the construction activities except
that of RTI, Balangoda were completed and handed over to the recipient agencies by end
of May 1998. Of the 59 Civil Works items 55 were completed (95%). Under
Procurement Program 65 vehicles and 1514 motor cycles were procured for the
implementing agencies to improve the mobility of extension staff. Also about 738 items
of equipment consisting of office , laboratory, training, media and household etc. were
procured for the different agencies satisfying a good part of their needs so as to facilitate
the extension work.
Under the SAEP's Manpower Development Program, 51 officers were given
Post- Graduate training overseas- 9 PhDs, 37 MScs and 3 Post Graduate Diplomas.
Although there was a shortfall in the overseas short term training, 320 officers of the
implementing agencies were provided training in many relevant fields such as
participatory extension, extension management, post-harvest technology, processing of
animal products, fruit and vegetable production, sloping agricultural land technology etc.
Training in the use of computer was also given locally to a number of officers. The
project also supported other local training programs such as extension methodology,
cross-agency technical training, group development etc. and the conduct of field
demonstrations. All these training programs has improved the technical capabilities of the
extension staff.
27



Promotion of the wider use of Mass Media fell short of expectation and the pilot
private sector extension program was not implemented. Although there was no direct
contribution by the project, the involvement of the private sector in the seed industry had
improved over the years. Introduction of an integrated whole farm participatory group
approach to extension, however, ended up with mixed results. The benefits of integration
and group approach achieved a fair degree of acceptance, especially with the front line
extension workers. However, rapid expansion to reach a national coverage without giving
adequate time for stabilization, some of the operational procedures introduced by SAEP
such as PC/PA/PS, intensive planning process and somewhat complex M&E procedures
etc. were considered rather cumbersome and time consuming. Some inherent weaknesses
in the project design together with a number of  administrative, institutional and
operational problems at national and sub-national levels restricted the achievement of
extension and development objectives.
It is unlikely that the new extension approach would be sustained with all its
details but the implementation of the SAEP had improved the facilities of the extension
agencies and brought about considerable improvement in the capability of the extension
workers which could be profitably used in the future. Most agencies have indicated that
they would continue to foster some of the basic concepts in the future and the Extension
Development Unit promoted under the project will provide the necessary
1. Project Design
The Second Agricultural Extension Project ( SAEP) was a bi-partite agreement
between the International Development Association ( IDA) and the Government of Sri
Lanka ( GOSL), designed to assist the Government's agricultural development goals of
increasing production and improving the socio-economic conditions of the farmers by
strengthening the non- plantation sector agricultural extension services and developing a
national seed policy. Integration of crop and livestock extension services and the
establishment of an extension service operated by a small number of better trained and
qualified extension workers was envisaged to improve the cost effectiveness of the
national extension system. The project which is of national scope was a follow up of the
IDA funded Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (AEARP).
The project consisted of six elements (1) Civil Works, (2) Procurement of Goods
and Vehicles, (3) Technical Assistance and Training, (4) Private Sector Extension
Program (5) Incremental Salaries & Operating Costs and (6) Mass Media. The broad
objective of the project was to increase farmer's income and agricultural production by
improving farm productivity through inter alia, promotion of innovative technology. To
achieve these objectives, the project had the following 2 components;
(a) a multifaceted program to improve agricultural extension services including closer
integration of existing extension services, improved use of mass media, strengthened
plant protection, quarantine and pest control, safer and more effective use of pesticides,
training and a private sector pilot extension program; and
28



(b) improved national seed policy to promote greater private sector involvement in the
seed industry.
2. Project Appraisal
At appraisal the total value of the project was US $ 18.3 million, of which IDA
contributed US $ 14.3 million and GOSL was to contribute equivalent of US $ 4.0
million including farmer contribution of an amount equivalent of US $ 0.2 million.
Approximately 10 % of the project funds were kept unallocated for North & East
Provinces.
At appraisal it was noted that there is a need to provide better infrastructure
facilities for extension and training organizations in the Department of Agriculture
(DOA) and the Provincial Departments of Agriculture (PDOA). Provision of such
facilities for the Plant Protection and Pesticide Divisions of the DOA was also taken into
consideration. The inadequacy of other facilities such as vehicles, motor cycles, office,
training, media and other equipment for DOA, Department of Export Agriculture (DEA),
Department of Animal Production & Health (DAPH), the Provincial Departments of
Agriculture and Animal Production & Health, and the Plant Protection and Pesticide
Divisions of the DOA were also identified. Shortage of trained man-power, funds for
Mass Media and operational activities were the other important constraints recognized at
that stage. The Coconut Cultivation Board (CCB) was to get resources from an ADB
project. As this did not materialize, a proposal was developed and based on this SAEP
committed assistance to CCB. The investment of project funds were as follows:
- A sum of US $ 2.2 million was provided for Civil Works which included 41 units of
staff housing, insect proof mesh house, plant screen house, new hostel, communication
center, Regional Training Center for Sabaragamuwa and the renovation of some of the
existing training institutes and district training centers etc.
- US $ 4.0 million was provided for procurement of 65 vehicles, 1514 motor cycles and
about 738 items of office, laboratory, media, household, training and other miscellaneous
equipment.
- US $ 0.2 million provided for Technical Assistance, both expatriate and local for
organizational development, extension strengthening, seed policy development and
private sector pilot extension program.
- US $ 5.1 million was provided under Manpower Training to improve the capabilities of
extension staff. 1258 person months of long term training, 310 person months of short
term training and funds for local training and to conduct field demonstration was
provided.
- US $ 1.6 million was provided under Contractual Services to strengthen Mass Media
activities, US $ 1.1 million for implementing a private sector pilot extension program and
US $ 0.1 million for studies.
29



- US $ 4.0 million was earmarked for staff salaries and supplementary operating costs to
pay enhanced travel allowances, operation and maintenance cost of vehicles and
equipment and for the Project Management Unit (PMU).
3. Project Implementation
3.1. Financial Performance
Exchange rate of the rupee at appraisal was US$1 = SLR 42.20 and this figure
changed throughout to US$1 = SLR 65.11 on June 30th 1998, credit closing date. The
project cost at project closing was Rs. 901.4 million (at approximately US$1= SLR
49.00) which is 103% of appraisal estimate of Rs. 874.54 and include approximately
10% unallocated for North & East. The total estimated expenditure was Rs. 562.35
million (62%). Total disbursement by IDA is US$7.81 million which is 54% of the Credit
of US$14. 3 million. Estimated amount to be claimed from IDA is US$0.253 million.
Project expenditure can be considered satisfactory in the case of civil works,
procurement and training and technical assistance. Expenditure in the case of mass media
contractual services and operational expenditure fell well below the SAR targets and in
the case of pilot extension program no expenditure was incurred. This was due to,
1. Initial delay in developing a mass media strategy. Subsequent procedural delays by the
implementing agencies in the preparation of texts and other mass media materials.
2. The coverage of extension activities under the project to all Divisional Secretariat
areas, except in North & East commenced only at the end of 1995. The early indication as
early as October 1996, of impended project closure before the scheduled date constrained
any further intensification of such activities.
3. With regard to pilot extension program, the decision got unduly delayed due to it being
politically sensitive matter. Also the study undertaken failed to provide clear direction on
how to privatize extension with a whole farm, participatory biased approach.
The expenditure at credit closing date in the case of different components are
shown in Table 1.
30



Table 1. Project Expenditure as at 30 June 1998
Project Component Project Cost       Actual / Latest  Percentage
Expenditure
Estimate *
Rs. mn.           Rs.mn
1. Civil Works                      107.80           85.68           79.5
2. Procurement                      200.20          220.37          110.1
3. training - Technical Assistance  261.00          161.51           61.9
4. Pilot Private Sector Extension    58.00            0.00            0.0
5. Operational Cost                 196.00           79.37           40.5
6. Mass Media                        78.40           15.30           19.5
Total                         901.40*         562.23           62.4
(* Calculated on an average exchange rate of US$1= SLR 49.0)
3.2. Physical Performance
3.2.1 Incremental Staff
The extension cadre was increased by appointing 332 Grama Niladaries with 2
year Agriculture Diploma training as Agricultural Instructors. The Agricultural
lnstructors and the Livestock Development Instructors attached to the Divisional
Secretary, was brought under the direct administrative and technical control of the
respective Provincial Directors. As regards filling of staff 100% was achieved in the case
of PMU and scientific staff of the Plant Protection and Pesticide Divisions of DOA.
However, in the case of support staff for the two Divisions of the DOA, there was a
shortfall and this was mainly due to temporary stoppage of recruitment of staff into
government services.
3.2.2. Civil Works
Civil Works operations commenced with the engagement of Architectural &
Engineering Consultants in June 1993 to prepare detailed designs, BOQ's, Tender
Documents and Contract Documents and for the supervision of works. Construction work
commenced in 1994, after award of the first set of civil works contracts, having obtained
the approval of the IDA of the bid documents. During the project period a total of 36
Contracts were awarded. Except the work in respect of RTI, Balangoda, all other
constructions were completed by end May 1998 and handed over to the recipient
agencies. Construction of RTI Balangoda got delayed and will be completed by end July
1998. The sites for civil works activities were distributed over a wide area and therefore
supervision of constructions was a difficult task. Also fairly serious problems were
encountered having to change original sites identified for construction. In many cases
new sites had to be identified after the award of Contracts resulting in additional
designing, extra work and delays.
31



Table 2. Summary of Civil Works Undertaken by SAEP.
Type of Civil Work                      Approved      No.           No.
No.          Completed      Remaining
1. Residential quarters                     41             40             1
2. Hostel extension                           1             1              0
3. Regional Training Center*                  1             1              1
4. Communication Center cum stores            1             1             0
5. Plant Screen House                         1             I             0
6. Insect Proof Mesh House                    1             1             0
7. Soil Fumigation Unit                       1             1             0
8. Renovation of In-service Training Centers  3**           3             0
9. Renovation of District Training Centers    7**           6              1
10. Renov. of Farm Women's Tr. Center         I             0             1
11. Renov. of Farm Broadcasting Center        1             1             0
TOTAL                                        59            55             4
* Expected completion end July 1998.
** The actual needs were determined in consultation with agency representatives.
3.2.3. Procurement of Vehicles and Goods.
Under this program, 65 vehicles consisting of 1 car, 1 passenger bus, 3 dual
purpose vans and 60 double cabs and 1514 motor cycles were procured and handed over
to the implementing agencies to improve the mobility of extension staff. Altogether 738
items of equipment were procured for the implementing agencies. The equipment
consisted of:
a) 446 items of office equipment which included computers, printers, typewriters,
calculators, photocopiers, duplicators, digital duplicators, communication equipment,
fax machines, air conditioners, megaphones and other office needs.
b) 106 items of training equipment consisting of projectors, tape recorders, models, etc.
c) 47 items of media equipment which included cameras, audio equipment, multi-media
units, printing machine, scanners, screen printers, video cameras and video systems etc.
d) 6 field equipment consisting of lawn movers, generators etc.
e) 18 items of laboratory equipment comprising chromatograph, gas cylinders and steel
cabinets for laboratory, fire extinguishers etc.
f) 1 1 5 items of miscellaneous household items consisting of refrigerators, deep freezers,
food mixers, Food processors, floor polishers, furniture etc.
3.2.4. Technical Assistance
Of the 18 person months of expatriate Technical Assistance (TA) 12 person
months were used to engage an Organizational Development cum Extension Specialist to
work out implementation organizational structure and the introduction of the new
extension methodology, including the initial training in Problem Census and Problem
Solving (PC/PS) process. In 1996, 3 person months were utilized on a TA for
strengthening of the Integrated Agricultural Extension Strategy (IAES) and to design a
32



monitoring and evaluation system. Eight person months of local TA were used as
follows; (a) 1 person month to prepare a proposal on strengthening CCB extension; (b) 1
person month for the study on existing private sector extension initiatives in Sri Lanka,
(c) 2 person months on Research/ Extension linkage study, (d) 3 person months on the
local Mid Term Review and (e) 1 person month on Gender Study.
3.2.5. Manpower Development
SAEP's Manpower Development Program provided at appraisal 1258 person months
for overseas long term training, 310 person months for overseas short term training and
funds for local training and field demonstrations. Subsequently, this program was
reviewed and the allocation of person months for overseas training to different agencies
were re-determined. In the case of long term training the total person months were not
changed but allocations to DEA and DAPH were increased and those for CCB were also
accommodated. In the case of short term training the total number of person months were
increased to 372 to accommodate the needs of the CCB. The local training and the
demonstration programs were later determined based on the actual needs arising from the
extension programs. 4000 local training sessions and 4200 field demonstrations were
estimated to be completed during the project period. The achievements in respect of the
different categories of training are given in the Table 3.
Table. 3. Summary of Achievements of Long-term Training Program
Institution              Approved            Utilized                Number Trained
Person Months      Person Months     Ph.D    M.Sc Diploma
1. DOA - Economics               60                 60           1        1
- Research                108                108          1        3
- Extension               304               276           1        12
- Pesticide               36                 24           -        1
- Plant protectn.         60                 36           1        -
- Seed certifcatn.        60                 60           -        3
2. DEA                           156               146           1        5         3
3. DAPH                          24                 24           -        2
4. CCB                           24       X  __                      ______
5 Central Prov.                  36                 36           1        -
6 Western Prov.                  84                 60           1        1
7 North West. Prov.              36                 36           -        2
8 Southern Prov.                 12                 12           -        1
9. North Cent. prov.             84                 60           1        1
10. Sabaragamuwa Prov.           48                42                     3
11. Uva Prov.                   102                48            1        3
12. North East Prov              24                 12                    I
TOTAL                     1258               1070          9       39         3
33



Table 4. Summary of Progress of SAEP Short-Term Training Program
Institution                        Allocation           Utilized                Number Trained
Person Months        Person Months
1. DOA - Economics                          6.0                   5.0                    5
- Research                          40.0                   9.5                   13
- Extension                         39.5                  16.0                   28
- Pesticide                         16.0                   0.0                    0
- Plant protectn.                   12.0                   0.0                    0
- Seed certifcatn.                  12.0                   0.0                    0
2. DEA                                     44.5                  25.25                  49
3. DAPH (HQ)                                2.0                   1.75                   2
4. CCB                                     30.5                  30.75                  52
5. MAL                                      1.0                   1.0                    1
6. Central Prov. - Agric.                  18.0                   7.25                  14
- APH                         5.0                   3.25                   6
7. Westem Prov. - Agric.                    5.5                   8.0                   13
- APH                        4.0                   3.5                    6
8. North West. Prov. - Agric.              22.0                   .75                   21
- APH                     7.0                   6.25                  10
9. Southern Prov.  - Agric.                15.0                   8.75                  17
- APH                     5.0                   5.25                   8
10. North Cent. prov. - Agric              11.0                  5.25                   10
- APH                     3.0                  3.25                    6
11. Sabaragamuwa Prov. -Agric.             13.0                   9.0                   15
-APH                  4.0                   4.0                    6
12. Uva Prov. - Agric                      13.0                  5.75                   11
- APH                           5.0                   3.25                   6
13. North East Prov. - Agric               22.0                  8.25                   16
- APH                     6.0                   2.50                   5
TOTAL                               372.0                  183.5                 320
Of the long term training 1258 person months, 1070 person months (85%) were
used to train 9 officers up to PhD, 39 officers up to MSc and 3 officers at Post Graduate
Diploma level. PhD training was in the fields of Agricultural Extension, Farming
Systems, Mass Media, Agronomy and Agricultural Policy. MSc training was mainly in
the fields of Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Education, Mass Media, Human
Resource Development, Research, Natural Resource Management, Marketing etc.
Out of 372 person months identified for overseas short term training only 183.5
person months were utilized (49.3%) and 320 officers were trained. Short term training
programs were mostly of 2 weeks duration conducted in the Asian Region. These
consisted of training cum study tours in participatory extension, extension management,
post-harvest technology, fruit and vegetable production, sloping agricultural land
technology, processing of animal products, inter-cropping in Coconut etc.
3.2.6. Progress of Local Training and Demonstration Program
The project supported 2153 local training sessions for officers and farners of
which most catered for officers. Local training emphasized the conduct of workshops
34



and training on the new extension methodology, cross agency technical training, group
development, orientation on agricultural development strategy etc. Computer training was
also provided to a selected group of officers in the different implementing agencies. As
regards demonstrations, the project supported 45 demonstrations of the DEA and 1728
other field demonstrations arising out of the integrated extension programs.
3.2.7. Mass Media Services
Use of Mass Media as an extension tool was to be promoted under the project
with the objective of reaching a large number at a lesser cost. In this project, in addition
to supporting the improvement of media facilities of the implementing agencies provision
was made to finance media contractual services to be obtained through the private sector.
The implementation of this component was delayed due to the long time taken to
develop a mass media strategy and program by the implementing agencies at national
level which had to be submitted to IDA for concurrence. The project supported mass
media activities through provision of media equipment and financing the media
production contractual  services. Procurement of mass media contractual services
commenced in 1995. Funds were provided to produce 363000 technical booklets and
posters for DOA , DEA and DAPH; to implement 402 Radio and TV programs and for
the publication of 80 Newspaper Supplements for DOA. Funds were also given to
produce 2 tele-dramas and 2 TV documentaries for DEA. These were contracted out to
the private sector.
Although a fair number of printed media material was produced for the central
agencies, it was found that the provincial system did not have a mechanism to make these
available at the Govi Kendrayas ( Agrarian Services Centers) for the farmers and others
to buy. This issue was taken up and improvement was achieved as some provinces
made available funds for the purpose and also made arrangements to make these available
at these centers.
3.2.8. Private Sector Pilot Extension Program
This activity of the project did not reach an implementing stage due to a number
of reasons. In the latter part of 1994 a study of the existing extension activities by the
private sector and NGO's was done. Although there was evidence of some extension
related activities, these had many limitations such as very limited coverage, product
promotion nature like contract growing of specific commodities and sale of agro-inputs
etc. A significant proportion of the farmers has not been reached through these initiatives
and the appropriateness and sustainability remained questionable in many cases.
At the present level of evolution of agriculture in Sri Lanka, public sector's role in
providing extension services continues to remain important. Divesting the provision of
extension services by the public sector even partly did not receive much political and
beneficiary favor in the initial stages. Also the poor relationship between private sector
and the agro- technology generating public sector institutions was not providing a
35



conducive environment for the development of productive partnership in extension
delivery. All these led to delayed decision making.
However, in 1996 Cabinet approval was obtained to implement a pilot program.
Expression of interests was called for by paper advertisement. Although a fair number of
positive responses were received only a few submitted comprehensive proposals. These
were evaluated and only just a handful was found to be feasible. However, the decision to
close the project earlier than expected left little time for implementation and therefore
no further action was taken.
3.2.9. Integrated Agricultural Extension Methodology
The Government has accepted the Integrated Agricultural Extension approach as
its strategy for overall agricultural development of the non-plantation sector. The basic
concepts underlying the new extension methodology was the whole farm, bottom-up
participatory planning approach in the preparation of local, district and provincial plans
and programs based on farmer needs identified through PC/ PA] PS process. The
programs were implemented through a three-tier organizational structure, Field Extension
Team (FET) at ASC level, Guide Extension Team (GET) at district level and the
Provincial Extension Team (PET) at the provincial level. The FET was responsible for
planning and implementing the ASC level integrated extension program. The GET was
expected to provide the necessary guidance and supervise the activities of the FETs. The
PET was responsible for the overall supervision of the integrated extension activities in
the province.
In 1993, through Technical Assistance, the officers in the implementing agencies
were given a basic training in the new integrated extension methodology introduced by
the SAEP. In 1994 implementation commenced in 3 pilot areas, one Divisional
Secretariat (DS) area each in Central, Western and North Western provinces. In 1994, the
Agricultural Extension Working Group ( AEWG) with members drawn from DOA, DEA,
DAPH and CCB, developed the Operational Guidelines which was made available to all
the extension workers. The experience gained in the pilot areas did not show any serious
problems and the officers quickly realized the benefits of integrated approach. The
AEWG conducted comprehensive awareness and training programs for the officers at
different levels in the implementing agencies. At this stage considering the nation-wide
nature of the project, consensus was reached among the implementing agencies to expand
the coverage. The coverage was extended to a DS area in each of the 17 districts by
1994/95 Maha and in 1995/96 Maha season, it was further extended to cover all the DS
areas in these 17 districts. In 1996, further TA was engaged to strengthen the Integrated
Extension Methodology and to develop a Monitoring & Evaluation system. Subsequent
to this further training was given on program planning and M&E procedures.
From the commencement of the project implementation up to end 1997,
altogether 11700 Farner Reference Groups (FRG) were formed The number of FRG per
extension worker ranged from 5-20 with an average of about 10. The coverage in terms of
farm families involved in the FRGs reached 233,000 which is about 13% of the estimated
36



1.8 million farm families. During this period integrated agricultural extension Work
Plans at the Govi Kendraya level were developed and implemented. These provided the
basis for the preparation of district and provincial extension Work Plans.
3.2.10. Research/ Extension linkages
The National Agricultural Extension Committee (NAEC) established under the
Council for Agricultural Research Policy was to provide a link between Research and
Extension at the national level. Formal mechanisms of R/E linkages such as Regional
Technical Working Group (RTWG) meetings, R/E dialogues, field days etc. were
established under the AEARP project and remained functional. The need to have strong
R/E linkages for effective extension delivery was recognized by the SAEP. A study of the
existing intra and inter agency R/E linkages was undertaken by SAEP. In keeping with
the integrated participatory approach to extension, setting up of Provincial Technical
Working Groups was proposed but did not materialize. The need to link the Provincial
extension systems with the National level research systems was also recognized by the
respective agencies. During the latter part of the project implementation, DOA
commenced a system of having meetings with the provinces to facilitate transfer of
research information. Formal training programs where research personnel participate as
resource persons also provided an avenue for delivering research information. Also as
needed by the project, re-deployment of Subject Matter Specialists was effected.
3.2.11. Plant Protection/ Pesticide Control! Seed Certification
The importance of pest management, regulatory measures to prevent pest
introduction and safe handling of pesticides and the use of good quality seeds of different
crop varieties for diversifying agricultural production had been recognized. The project
supported the Plant Protection, Pesticide Control and Seed Certification activities of the
DOA by providing staff housing, vehicles, equipment, training and incremental staff.
The regional units of Plant Protection have been strengthened.
3.2.12. Extension Development Unit
The 1996 October Supervision Mission of IDA and the Consultant on
strengthening integrated extension methodology, proposed that the AEWG be replaced
by a Unit having greater authority and suggested the establishment of an Extension
Development Unit ( EDU) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands. Accordingly, the
EDU was established in March 1997. The main objectives of the EDU were to promote
in-line integration, monitor the extension programs, transmit government policy
directions to implementing agencies and to provide the necessary guidance. SAEP
provided the facilities and supported the operations of the EDU during the project period.
EDU was instrumental in revising the Operational Guidelines which incorporated some
aspects evolved through implementation experiences, but the revised version was not
published due to early closure of the project. EDU conducted training for field extension
staff on the revised procedures to Problem Census/ Problem Analysis/ Problem Solution
and extension work planning.
37



3.2.13 Provincial Agricultural Extension Monitoring Unit
Consequent to the suggestion by MAL, Provincial Extension Monitoring Units (PEMU)
were established to liaise between MAL and the Provincial system, to monitor the
Provincial Extension Work Plans, review and feedback the irmplementation process and to
carry out independent studies.
3.2.14. National Seed Policy
Although this activity was included in the project, part of the work had been
completed under DARP project. The MAL completed preparation of the seed policy
using the existing resources of the Seed Certification and Plant Protection Center and the
Seed and Planting Material Development Center of the DOA. The National Seed Policy
was approved by the Cabinet in March 1996. A National Seed and Planting Material sub-
committee was appointed to prepare a Seed Act and the required Plant Quarantine laws
etc. and to operationalize the implementation of the Seed Policy. The involvement of the
private sector in seed production has progressively increased over the years. The need for
support from the project did not arise. However, this covenant in the project had a
desirable effect on re-vitalizing the process.
4. Problems of the Project
4.1. Project Objectives/ Design / Appraisal
The design of the project itself had a number of weaknesses which to some extent
caused problems for implementation, limiting the project impact. At design adequate
consideration had not been given to minimize effects of disparities in terms of manpower
and other resources and organizational complexities among participating agencies. A
certain degree of lack of ownership is indicative of inadequate dialogue with all
stakeholders at the project preparation stage. The novel nature and the complexity of the
extension methodology should have received consideration in setting the time limit for
implementation. The lack of a component which is of direct benefit to the ultimate
beneficiaries, the farmers and the non-inclusion of any mechanism to enlist support of
other related agencies were impediments in soliciting the required cooperation in the
implementation of the project and the new extension methodology in particular.
4.2. Implementation Experiences and Problems faced
The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) was only partially effective in
bringing about necessary changes. The National Agricultural Extension Committee
(NAEC) under CARP failed to become an effective mechanism in coordinating extension
resources or looking into policy related issues. The coordination and supervision of
integrated agricultural extension activities within the provincial agencies remained weak
as the officers were involved in a wide range of national and provincial programs. The
inadequacy of commitment to project activities by the officers belonging to the hierarchy
of each of the implementing agency was evident and this perhaps was due to strong
adherence to the programs of the respective agencies. The continued existence of the
diversity of the organizational and administrative structures between and within
Provincial and National agencies also made implementation difficult. Although there was
38



no conceptual conflict between the MAL's Agricultural Development Strategy ( AMA)
and SAEP, the modus of introduction of the former caused confusion among the
extension workers. Also it was found that the PC/ PS process, which was the key tool of
the new extension methodology, did not receive much acceptance of officers as well as
farmers since many problems came up through this effort were unrelated to technology
needs and most of these were beyond the solving capacity of the extension worker. The
beneficiary farmers too continued to exhibit a strong "dependency syndrome" always
looking for government assistance to solve their problems. The non-availability of quick
solutions to the " problems" as perceived by farmers greatly jeopardized the cohesiveness
of the FRG and their interest appeared to vane with time. The policy regarding
agricultural development went through a process of review and reorientation during most
part of the implementation period of the project. Also re-structuring processes took place
in agencies like DOA and CCB. Although integration was perceived by a majority of
extension workers as something beneficial, strong adherence to agency priorities
prevented effective integration. Only passive response was received from the agencies in
the attempt to introduce a monitoring and evaluation system.
5. Project Achievements
Despite the decision to terminate the project early, the physical objectives of the
project was achieved to a satisfactory level. The SAEP strengthened the extension and
training facilities, civil works, equipment and mobility. The technical capability to
perform extension activities was also improved through manpower training and technical
assistance. The objective of establishing an integrated extension system and the adoption
of a participatory group approach to extension was achieved only partially, possibly due
to the time available for stabilization of concepts was inadequate.
6. Bank Performance
12 Supervision Missions were fielded by IDA. The last Mission prior to project
closure was in October 1996. The Missions reviewed the progress of project activities and
also made helpful suggestions to improve performance. However, the Missions efforts
were concentrated heavily on strict adherence to the original design and methodology
with very little modification to reflect methodological and organizational issues raised
during the implementation. All the Missions up until the end of 1995 , were
complementing project progress in moving towards achieving objectives. October 1996
Mission, however, took a very different view of the project performance and categorized
it as a 'Problem Project". Also some of the decisions of the 1996 October Mission such as
placing an embargo on training had a demoralizing effect on the officers. In arriving at
certain conclusions regarding the performance of the project, the Missions should have
taken note of the very radically different nature of the new approaches to extension
proposed under the project needing substantial adjustments to institutional arrangements,
changes of attitudes of officers and beneficiaries and especially the enhanced capabilities
of extension workers to effectively handle participatory approaches.
39



7. Borrower Performance
The borrower complied with almost all the covenants except that of the
imnplementation of a private sector pilot extension program. However, procedures and
circumstances delayed the timely and satisfactory completion of some of the covenants.
Most of the suggestions by the different missions were well taken and were complied
with to the extent possible. In terms of the performance regarding the integrated
participatory approach to extension, the degree of commitment was below expectation
and this was due to difficulties in resolving administrative and operational constraints due
to lack of a direct line of authority across the implementing structures, devolution of
extension delivery responsibility to provinces, continued expectation of the line agencies
to achieve their respective goals and missions and the large number of agencies involved
in the extension delivery.
8. Lessons Learned
1. The appropriateness of any innovative extension technology to the specific production
and socio-economic environment needs to be carefully assessed and agreed upon before
designing a project.
2. Whenever, the involvement of a number of agencies with widely different extension
delivery systems are required to implement a project, prio:r assurances of commitment
need to be obtained and the Memoranda of Understanding signed and incorporated to
the project document.
3. If smooth implementation is to be expected implementation plans and operational
procedures should be worked out in advance and annexed to the project document.
4. Good performance of an extension project depends heavily on the extent to which it is
backed by a consistent and supportive Agricultural Development and Extension Policy.
40



ANNEX 3
Table 1 Changes in Total Output of Major
Food Crops in Sri Lanka, 1990-97
(000 Mt)
CROP        1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        1996     1997
1. Staples
Paddy          2538.0  2389.0  2340.0  2570.0  2684.0  2810.0   2061.0  2239.0
Kurakkan          4.5     4.4      4.8      4.6     5.1      4.9      3.9      3.5
Maize            63.9    47.5    46.9    69.3    67.2    34.8        33.0    25.7
Manioc          354.0   358.0   302.0   309.0   298.0   288.0    270.5    249.8
Sweet Potato     72.0    73.0    60.0    57.0    62.0    61.0        59.0     54.0
2. Pulses
Green gramn      29.7    36.5    23.6    26.4    22.9    16.0        16.6     15.0
Cow pea          19.5    20.0    21.6    20.0    18.0    16.1        17.0    14.0
Black gram        7.4      7.8     6.3    16.1    14.5       7.9      7.4      6.8
Soya beans        7.3     3.6      2.5     2.2      3.2      2.4      0.7      0.4
3. Others
Chillies         39.1    33.2    23.5    40.4    31.4    21.3        18.4     18.1
Big Onion        18.8    21.6    27.6    38.0    81.4    27.9        19.4    22.5
Red Onion        74.0    76.9    87.0    91.0    82.3    47.4        43.9    44.9
Potato           84.3    41.5    45.0    77.2    70.6    81.7    100.8    66.5
Groundnut         9.7    11.5      9.8    12.3    16.3       5.9      5.1      5.3
Source: Census and Statistics Department
Table 2. Changes in Area Cultivated Under Major
Food Crops in Sri Lanka, 1990-97 (000 Ha)
CROP        1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
1. Staples    _                _  _ = =
Paddy           857.0   817.0   803.0   835.0   930.0   915.0   749.0   730.0
Kurakkan          7.2     2.7     6.6     6.4    7.1       7.4     6.1     5.5
Maize            47.8    40.1    41.0    49.8    54.5    35.9    30.8    25.7
Manioc           40.3    39.7    34.2    34.2    33.4    33.0    30.9    28.8
Sweet Potato     11.6    11.3     9.9     8.2    9.1       9.1     9.0     8.9
2. Pulses
Green gram       38.1    42.6    48.4    33.1    28.8    18.0    18.2    16.6
Cow pea          28.1    27.6    25.8    22.3    21.3    18.1    18.8    16.2
Black gram       17.8    10.2     8.7    15.7    17.3    11.4      9.0     8.7
Soya beans        5.8     2.8     2.0      1.4    2.4      2.3     0.8     0.5
3. Others
Chillies         38.0    34.1    31.3    42.7    36.4    30.6    26.1    24.1
Big Onion         1.7     2.4     2.4     3.5      7.8     5.7     2.7     2.9
Red Onion         8.5     6.3     8.1     8.8      7.6     7.0     6.6     6.4
Potato            7.6     3.5     5.3     7.7      8.5     7.4     7.9     6.5
Groundnut        11.6    10.1     9.6    10.6    14.0      9.9     8.8     9.2
Source: Census and Statistics Department
41



Table 3. Changes in Yield per Hectare of Major
Food Crops in Sri Lanka, 1990-97
(Mt/ha)
CROP       1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
1. Staples                        X                    ____l
Paddy           3.0   3.0.   3.0.   3.1   2.8   3.1    3.5    3.6
Kurakkan        0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   .07    .06    0.6
Maize           1.3    1.2   1.1    1.4   1.2    1.0   1.1    1.0
Manioc          8.7   9.0    8.7   9.0   8.9    8.7    8.7    8.6
Sweet Potato    6.4    6.4   6.0    6.9   6.8    6.7   6.5    6.0
2. Pulses
Green gramn     0.8    0.9   0.5    0.8   0.8    0.9    0.9    0.9
Cow pea         0.7   0.7   0.8    0.9   0.8    0.9    0.9    0.9
Black gram      0.4   0.8   0.7    1.0   0.8   .0.7   0.8    0.8
Soya beans      1.2   1.3    1.4   1.5   1.3    1.0   0.8    0.8
3. Others
Chillies        1.0   1.0   0.7   0.9   0.9    0.7    0.7    0.7
Big Onion      10.6   9.0   11.0  10.9  10.4   8.1    7.3    7.6
Red Onion       8.7  12.3   10.7  10.3   10.9   6.9    6.7    6.9
Potato         11.0   11.8   8.5   10.0   8.3   11.0  12.7   10.3
Groundnut       0.8    1.1    1.0    1.2   1.2 _0.6    0.6    0.6
Source: Census and Statistics Department
Table 4. Fertilizer Consumption by Crop in Sri Lanka, 1990-97
CROP           1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
A. Plantation Crops
Tea                    134.0  118.9  110.2  147.1  126.4  120.2  154.0  162.7
Rubber                  22.2   13.6   13.1   17.8   17.1   14.9   16.5   12.2
Coconut                 23.5   28.8   34.2   65.0   31.2   33.6   39.1   34.9
B. Minor Export crops    7.6   11.0    7.1    7.0    5.6    5.1    6.0    7.0
C. Food Crops
Paddy                  161.2  179.3  207.7  347.9  269.7  256.7  237.4  240.5
Major field crops       46.2   50.7   49.5   44.3   40.6   39.7   54.9   51.5
D. Others 1/:           41.8   51.0   53.6   47.1   41.8   38.8   15.8   19.4
Total                436.5  453.3  475.4  676.2  532.4  609.0 X 523.7  528.2
1/ includes tobacco
Source: National Fertilizer Secretariat
42



Table 5. Changes in Land Use Intensity of Irrigated Lands in Sri Lanka, 1980-95
Year  Asweddumi-    Area        Land use      Area      Land use     Annual
zed Areal/   Cultivated  intensity in   Cultivated  intensity in   Land Use
in Maha     Maha        in Yala      Yala      Intensity
(000 Ha)     Season       (%)        Season       (%)         (%/0)
1980     658.9        587.1       89.10       272.4       41.35       130.45
81       669.7       602.5       89.97       280.0       41.82       131.79
82       686.7       567.7       82.67       276.9       40.32       122.99
83       698.6       584.2       83.63       241.2       34.53       118.16
84       702.3       606.7       86.38       383.8       54.64       141.02
85       705.9       569.8       80.72       319.9       44.19       124.91
86      717.1        555.9       77.51       340.1       47.42       124.94
87       724.6       508.5       70.18       237.4       32.76       102.94
88       727.4       544.6       74.87       323.1       44.43       119.30
89       730.6       468.8       64.17       258.1       35.33       99.50
90       729.9       530.7       72.71       325.9       44.66       117.36
91       732.6       500.5       68.32       316.1       43.15       111.47
92       737.0       548.2       74.78       254.9       34.60       108.98
93       728.2       545.7       74.93       288.6       39.63       114.57
94       731.9       581.0       79.38       348.6       47.62       127.00
95       734.4       566.7       77.15       348.3       47.43       124.58
1/ Area Available for cultivation
Source: Department of Census and Statistics
43



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23349R
T, ,  ,SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
/  >   ofHA  t;0 f > \,                   *   REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
|   0 ::t :g   J A F F N A  . I R^                0  RESEARCH STATIONS
RESEARCH STATIONS AND
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
0   ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
\          0     2 ~.-'rJ    MULLAITIVU  'UiliU                               DPIERSAC   NT
j   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
: |--- <   VAVUNIYA   '                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
M.  -  -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
>  ''    -  \'District Boundories ore those
used in 1981 census.
ANURADHAPURA                / TRINCOMALEE \\   Ba; ar
C EN  TIR A Z                   ?erga
POLONNARUWA
N OIR TH                    l                                 :~ BATTICALOA
KURUNEGALA    ' j
*/    Korocdiq, 
A       WE sTr  R N       jMATALE                       EA STIER N
0 ;0090\    \                                              _            :  r,,1i  l                 -wX
C           \ N  T   Z           .\...  '   I        Moiw ' .
-   KAN DY
GAMPAHA.J                      A                            / -
2 KEGALLA  -_ ,                   (       " >                  AMPARAI
71                             I                            >        BADULLA 7t
rfCclombo    *-   Aj~    <           z   ~/         i     .a/     -        I                  '
;;;:     COLOMBO    /1 k    C NUWARA'.,
ELIYA               o            Monerogolo
*0f                                    -. :   <   --    >MONERAGALA
'f'S0SS;   \        '.       C    +,          ',f~~~~~~~~~~~1.'  /I
/           /
ALUTARA 
f KOltrao     a             RATNAPURA
;0000 ft000;   8 g        .\        v ~            /       .                        _ 
000 0 0 ~~~~- -' 0--L   \.-  '
;j0;:k: i  GALLE   i I < t.-\HAMBANTOTA
~t;    , MoRI* l., ,,<,.o  ,,=,,i                  i,.......INDIA  of
~MATARA                                                       M      I hW2
6 ..u.-               ; 
81                -v
MARCH 1992



SRI LANKA                          I
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                     IRRD 14076R2
80-                                                81'                                                82                                                                                 DISTINGUISHING  CHARACTERISTICS
A,E lP~-  Rg- B-w                                                                     AGO-EOLGCLOF 75%/                                           VAPLUE OR                           XECAC
~ ~j~~/'                  -           Ag,o-EorogpPS: Rpgppp Bo>do,pp                                                Z          4080  0CC 00 CX           T  MONTEG  HISIOGRAM             _ 75- EXPECTANCY               75>  ERYESS                              MAJOR SOIL GROUPS                       TERRAIN
'/-dS F       -sppppp                                                        0           RE> ON & SYMBOL              RASNFAPL PROBOABLITY           ANJUAL                   FOR PARTICULAR MONIHS
L8 1   I B d-p -1                                                                                                   FORt RESPECTIVE REGIONS        RAINEFAL
12 5                                       . F               'i         M          S' RY u.I.
0
;   _  O  Ut2  I2li    OL  jq                              >45               *'- ,                                                               . M.. ..-, FpPPp(pp.pPpppp.pplppPPppuP
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N""~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                            >~~~~~W ,125.F    PI,p.,pFll                                                                           SppPt          APP
0                                  _5                                               J E5M                                         PpApp P'pNU
W ,,., ,. ~, W  ;   ~   _  ._   .    N  0   DE .  | 1 3 s ,,,   50            p    M                 'A                   RpP,R P,,,  P,                                ........ ...
0   II  20  30  40  50  00                                                                              >100                     p      p ..        P    ..           SPA APPA PPPPApP PPPPP A SO                            B 1
WL3&                                                           60                                                              APSp A                               -      .    P'P
5'                                                                                         8'      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                    5..   ....
'U                                                          >8,55            'P        S'       - A         F     N
'U3                                                         >45                    P    MP P A P.P
lm,                                                                                      1.1 ~~~~~~~~~~>4    pA App  Npl  FP*PPpF-   AAPAd  pPpPP-.lpp>p
P P  >            \'w(                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                                                       PAA, p4pp..p..A..  FII-,pp  PP          SP.PAAP
-7                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35     1    As p            S    p       APp  A   PA  pP 
0  lL2                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  '     F      pS'p              App'.,         PppPAp   PPPPPPPPPA-                   P  p     A,PPpI
IL,                                            3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~>5 'P            Mppp    ' ApPN               SApPFAPpPPApPpFPPppppp                    PAPPIP Pp
/V 0   A N                                                                               DL,                                                            35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3  ' F p    MP p   N Ap   Sp FAAFPpFPPPP  P  Ap.  p
O CEAN IV                                                                                           M p~~P E                  s            DL3&4   fl' f                                                 23                                                                                                                 .....P P   p  Np ILSp-.APIPPAPFpP
K  IAppppp,15ppppIpRpppPP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pp  &p~~~~~~J~~~~pp~~~A.  p                                                                                                               p~~~~~~5 PDLAF
AAp4MPO~~~~AAOPk  ~      ~        5 0
NY                  App.p PhpdppppppppPppp                   ~~DL                       P     4       P ->0Pp                                    P     M Ppp pPPF                       SAp  PAPPPPFPPAPPPAPPA>PP
C.-W b,                                                                                                                                                        FMAMK>A-nNO
-d .                                                                                              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAPAFAAP,PP      o~ P.P~ppi A  s  Pp  ppP  APP
P      DpCppp.-  ppPPA--PPPVP PPEIT5-0NP
OCTOBER 1991



