Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10236-CE Type: (SAR)
SEREJSKI, / X81278 / E9 015/ SA3AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MAY 12, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department 111
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 1991)
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
US$1.00 - SL Rs 42.20
MEASURES
Hectare (ha) - 2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AEARP       Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
AEC         Agricultural Extension Committee
ARP         Agricultural Research Project
CARP        Council of Agricultural Research Policy
DAPH        Department of Animal Production and Health
DARP        Diversified Agricultural Research Project
DEA         Department of Export Agriculture
DOA         Department of Agriculture
DS/AGA      Divisional Secretary/Additional Government Agent
FAO/CP      Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative
Programme
GOSL        Government of Sri Lanka
IDA         International Development Association
JICA        Japan International Cooperation Agency
KVS         Krushikarma Vyaptha Sevaka, Village-level Extension
Agents
MADR        Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
MCICD       Ministry of Coconut Industries and Crop
Diversification
MPAPCHA     Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils
and Home Affairs
NAEWG       National Agricultural Extension Working Group
NGO         Non Government Organization
NTCC        National Training Coordination Committee
PCC         Project Coordination Committee
PMOA        Provincial Ministry of Agriculture
PNU         Project Management Unit
RTWG        Regional Technical Working Group
T&V         Training and Visit
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
zm
CEIT AiD- PROJECT? BUIA.I.SI.Y  .      . . . . . . . ...... . . . . IILL
A.    Project Genesis . . . . . . ..................1,
B.   The Agricultural Se        cto...             .....             .....  1.
C.    SUPPOrt Services for Agriculture ....3
D.    Bank/1DA's Strategy in the Agricultural Sector'         .10
11.   PROJECT? 03J10'?IVr A   DESCRXPTO.  ............. . . . 11
A.    Project Objectives  ............ .11...          ...
.  Project Components              ...12
C.   DetaLld  F.eatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
.  PAECT -COSTS AND FINANC.n.   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
A.    Project costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
B.    Project Finanelng.16 . Agrlcult    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
C.  Procurement. . . . . .. ....   . . . . . . . 17
D.   DLTburses  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .ir n     . . . . 19
IV.  PROJET              -NbDEO... .Z ..   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
A.    Coordination  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
S.   Division ofResponsibiltes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
C.    ImplemCentation ... .. ................                            21
D.    Moitoring and Evaluation........ ... ........ 28
S.    Project Supervision Plan              . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
P.    Te' hibcal Atance .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 30
0.      vromntal impact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..0 . . . 
This report La based on the findings of an appraisal mission whLch visited Sri
LAnka In Jlun/July 1991. The mission consisted of Nessrs./Mm.s. I. serejsk.,
3. GutLerrexC T. Abeysekera (IDA). and D. Crouch, 0. Reusche. 0. Allen and K.
Roach. (consultants). The peer reviewers were Nessrs. c. .Amur (eztension
component). J. Srivastava (seed component) end S. Chobanian (agro-enterpr.se
development). Messrs. C. Antholt. D. Lister and Me. B. Lee contributed to the
rePOrt. Ms. C. Anbiah and 't. Cohen (IDA) assisted with project processing and
preparation of the appraisal report.
This document has a stricted distributon and may be usd by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Li -
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISK   ..................31
A.   General                  .........                             31
B.   Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
C.    Project. Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
VI.  AGMMNTS TO BE REACHED AND BECODEUD I. .               ..32
1.   Organization Charts:
1 - Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
2 - Agricultural Extension within the Province
3 - Department of Agriculture - Technology Transfer DivisLon
4 - Department of Export Agriculture
5 - Department of Animal Production and Health
6 - State Ministry of Coconut Industries and Crop Diversification
2.   Staffing Plan for Extension
3.   Farming System Approach to Extension
4.   Human Resources Development
5.   Cost Estimates
6.   Financing and Disbursements
7.   Implementation Schedule
S.   Pilot Extension Program - Terms of Reference
9.   Related Documents in the Project Files
MAPS IBRD 23349R
IBRD 14076R2



- LiL -
SRILANK
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Bon fLiLaME:            The hinistry of Agricultural Development and Research
(NADR).
8DR 10.5 million (US$14.34 million equivalent).
Tarms:                  Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
Project Objectives:     To increase farmers' income and agricultural
production by improving farm productivity through,
inter alLa, promotion of innovative technology. To
achieve this objective, the project would: (a)
strengthen agricultural extension services (except for
tree crops), and (b) develop a national seed policy.
Desgr1grtion:           The proposed nationwide six-year project (1993-98)
would consist of: (a) a multifaceted program to
improve agricultural extension services, including
closer integration of existing extension services,
improved use of mass media, strengthened plant
protection, quarantine and pest control, safer and
more effective use of pesticides, training, and a
private sector pilot extension program; (b) improved
seed policy; and (c) establishment of a project
management unit.
Beneflts and Risks:     The project would help to sustain and improve farmers'
income and to develop a more streamlined, less costly
client-oriented extension service. The project would
also help the central government explore the
possibilities of gradually divesting itself of
es-ension activities through a private sector pilot
etenasion program. The project would advance
privatization of the seed industry through the
establishment of national seed policy that would
facilitate farmers' access to a complete range of
imported improved crop varieties. The project would
also help reduce pesticide misuse and overuse which
result in environmental damage, reduced effectiveness,
heavy residues In harvested crops, resistance
problems, and poisoning accidents--by strengthening
pesticide legislation and enforcement and by educating
growers and dealers about the optimal and safe use of
pesticides.



- iv -
The project faces two main risks. First, with the
rapid devolution of authority to the provinces,
coortination of physical, financial, and human
resources in agricultural extension services may be
weakened. Pragmatic organizational arrangements have
been built in as safeguards. These arrangements
include establishment of an Agricultural ExtetsiLon
Committee (ARC) and Project Coordination Committee
(PCC), and strengthening of the National Agricultural
Extension Working Group (NAEWI). Second, there may be
some delay in getting all the provinces adequately
staffed to undertake all project-related tasks
assigned to them. To minimize this risk, the level of
provincial support would be reviewed each year by the
project management unit (P1U) and IDA, and steps would
be taken to bring support up to the appropriate level.
Local     ForeLgn     Total
Estimated Prolect Cost                       ---------(US$ million)-------
Extension Services                            7.41         8.18       15.59
Seed Policy                                    -           0.03        0.03
Project Management Unit                       0.24         0.06        0.30
Total Baseline Costs                      7.65         8.27       15.92
Physical Contingencies                        0.26         0.38        0.64
Price Contingencies                           0.96         0.80        1.76
Total Cbst                                8.87         9.45       18.32
(Including taxes and duties of U'S$2.5)
Financing Plan:
Government                                    3.71         0.08        3.79
Farmers                                       0.14         0.05        0.19
IDA                                           5.02         9.32       14.34
Total                                     8.87         9.45       18.32
ggtimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
Annual             0.4   1.0   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   1.4
Cumulative         0.4   1.4   3.7   6.0   8.3  10.6  12.9  14.3
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
MAPS:  IBID  23349R
IBRD 14076R2



SRI LAMR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BmgRU
A. Project Genesis
1.1       The Government of Sri Lanka and IDA have been discussing a follow-
up project to the IDA-financed Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project (AEARP) for the last five years. A mission from the Food and
Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme (FA('/CP) visited Sri Lanka in
late 1989 and in November 1990 to prepare the proposed project. This task was
completed in February 1991. At about the same time (January-July 1991). the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) conducted a review of agricultural extension in
Sri Lanka under a technical assistance grant of US$350,000. The study
findings were taken into account in the design of the proposed project, which
was appraised by IDA in June/July 1991.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Structure
1.2       Sri Lanka is a small island economy with 17 million people and a
per capita income of about US$470 a year. Agriculture plays an important role
In the economy, accounting for about 24X of gross domestic product, 36X of
merchandise exports, and 45X of the active labor force (2.2 million persons).
It is also an important source of income for nearly 701 of the country's
population who live in rural areas.
1.3       The agricultural sector has three main subsectors:  (a)  tree crops
-- tea, rubber, and coconut -- accounting for about 5X of GDP, 341 of
merchandise exports, and 16X of employment; (b) paddy, accounting for 21X of
GDP, and 30X of employment; and (c) alternative crops, mainly subsidiary food
crops and minor export crops, accounting for a negligible share of GDP,
exports, and employment. Subsidiary food crops include pulses (green gram,
black gram, cowpea), oilseed (gingerly, groundnut, and soybean), condiments
(chilies, onion, ginger, and turmeric), roots and tubers (potato, sweet potato
and manioc), and vegetables. Minor export crops cover cinnamon, cardamom,
cocoa, coffee, chinchona, citronella, cloves, ginger and pepper. There is
also a limited production of high-value crops for export -- largely fresh
fruits, vegetables, foliage plants, and flowers that are in high demand in
more affluent economies. About 731 of all cultivated land is under
smallholdings, and average farm size is diminishing.
Performan_e_
1.4       Performance in the agricultural sector was mixed in the 1980s:  41
annual growth between 1978-86, followed by two years of negatlve growth in
1987 and 1989. Production in the tree crops subsector grew by only 1.81 of
GDP a year, even with record-breaking production in 1990. At the same time,



- 2 -
the country's competitors experienced more robust, sustained growth in tree
crops production and quality improvements, leading to erosion of
Sri Lanka's market share. The poor performa6ace of the two state plantation
corporations (the Janatha Estates Development Board and the Srl Lanka State
Plantations Corporation), which account for almost half the area under tea and
rubber, had much to do with this mediocre performance. Vlrtually all the
increase ln tea production during 1983-89 came from private estates and
smallholders.
1.5       Paddy production has increased markedly over the past three
decades, rising from an average of 0.62 million metric tons in 1960-62 to 2.2
million metric tons in 1980-82 and 2.4 million metric tons in 1988-90, peaking
at 2.7 million metric tons in 1985. The rapid production increases of the
early 1980s were followed by slower and highly variable annual growth in the
later 1980s. Output declined, reaching a low of 2.1 million metric tons in
1989, as civil conflict and bad weather reduced the area under cultivation and
yields leveled off.
Growth Potential
1.6       While opportunities for rapid growth in the tree crops and paddy
subsectors are limited, the potential is good for expansion of subsidiary food
crops for domestic consumption, and of minor export crops and nontraditional,
high-value export crops especially to the Middle and Far Eastern markets. In
these markets, the current Sri Lankan share is small (3X of the Middle Eastern
market and 0.04X of the Far Eastern market) and the country is well positioned
geographically to increase its market share by three and tenfold in the Middle
Eastern and Far Eastern markets, respectively. Growth of these crops has been
mized, however, despite their high returns relative to paddy. There has been
little development of nontraditional agricultural exports except cut flowers
and foliage plants and moderate success in growing gherkins. The largest
subgroup of the minor export crops, the spice family, fared badly during 1982-
89 (cinnamon was an exception).
Constraints
1.7       The technology exists or is being developed under the IDA-supported
Agricultural Research Project (ARP) (Cr. 1776-CE) for farmers to grow
subsidiary food crops and minor export crops, and some of the never high-value
export crops. Local market prices for subsidiary food crops and minor export
crops are adequate and often attractive relative to the prices of alternatlve
crops, but prices fluctuate widely, reflecting easy saturation of the local
market.  The prices of traded goods among these crops also reflect the often
destabilizing effects of discretlonary import and export interventions by the
Government. There are also weaknesses in the financial sector and in land
policy. These issues are being addressed in macroeconomic and sector
dialogue. Most production (90-95%) is marketed by private traders, and
exchange rate and international trade policies have been evolving favorably.
A major constraint is farmers' inability to respond to the signals of an
increasingly free market because their access to the available technology is
severely hampered by the present state of the extenslon servLce.
1.8       When the costs of operating the extension service became
prohibitively high in the mid-1980s, the Government made drastic cuts in
operating expenditures and later In staff. In 1987, the extension service was



-3-
disrupted again by the devolution of authority to the provinces. In 1988-89,
some 2,400 village level extension agents (Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka or KVS)
were transferred to the Janasaviya (poverty alleviation) Program. In
addition, the extension service never really adapted its "single crop" (paddy)
focus to the "whole farm" approach needed to address other crops, especially
after paddy yields leveled off. As presently constituted, the extension
service is unable to promote the development of alternative crops at a cost
that can be sustained by the Government budget. Furthermore, there is no
enabling seed policy for greater participation of the private sector in seed
production and marketing activities, and plant protection and pesticide
management are veak.
Sectoral Development Strategy
1.9       The centerpiece of the Government's agricultural development
strategy is the diversification of agriculture through the promotion of
subsidiary food crops, minor export crops, and high-value export crops. To
effectively develop these crops, however, will require a leaner, more
officient and less costly extension service capable of responding to the needs
of farmers with fewer, but better trained extension agents, backed up by
subject matter specialists and a more responsive research system. With the
assistance of the IDA-supported AEARP (Credit 931-CE), implemented in 1979-86,
the Government introduced a training and visit (T&V)Y approach to improve
extension services. This system now needs to adapt to the requirements of a
multicrop agricultural system and a smaller recurrent budget. This shift can
only be accomplished by switching from a staff-intensive contact farmer
approach to a farmer group approach supplemented by technology transfer
through mass media communication.
1.10      Two other important elements of the sectoral development strategy
are restructuring the tree crop subsector and continuing efforts to establish
a more level playing field for other subsectors of the agricultural economy,
mainly by reducing the support given to paddy production.
1.11      The Bank supports this strategy, as do the other major donors (ADB
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)), and is
providing assistance in the restructuring of state plantations, irrigation
rehabilitation, agricultural research, and forestry. The Bank is also
supporting reform of the overall macroeconomic and sectoral policy environment
with a view to relieve the constraints to private-sector led, export-oriented
development.
C. Support Services for Agriculture
1.12      The MinLstry of AgrLcultural Development and Research (MADRI
(Annex 1, Chart 1). The NADR has major responsibility for providing
iI   T&V is a hierarchically organized and time-bound method of managing
extension, designed to deliver selected and timely technology to
farmers with strict regularity. The system encourages links with
agricultural research institutions, emphasizes a professional
approach to extension, and requires exclusive devotion to extension
work.



- 4 -
agricultural support services to smallholders. The ministry deals with nearly
all crops other than tea, rubber, coconut, and cashew, and with livestock.
Four departments provide agricultural support services. The Department of
Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for developing and disseminating technology
related to rice and subsidiary food crops, the Department of Export
Agriculture (DEA) (Annex 1, Chart 4) does the same for export crops, and the
Department of Animal Production and Health (DAPH) (Annex 1, Chart 5) is
responsible for livestock. The Department of Agrarian Services is responsible
for providing farmers vith all their production requirements. Direct services
to smallholders growing tea and rubber are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Plantation Industries. Coconut growers are served by the Ministry of
Coconut Industries and Crop Diversification (MCICD) (Annex 1, Chart 6), while
cashew growers are served by the Cashew Corporation.
1.13      Private Sector.  Private companies actively engaged in support
services are restricted mainly to export horticulture and tobacco. Most
private companies play only a minor advisory role, but the Ceylon Tobacco
Company offers an effective profit-oriented extension program as part of a
package of support services. Such integrated systems can boost productivity
and crop quality, but with their strong commercial focus, they tend to provide
extension advice and inputs only to a narrow range of farmers. Also, they
ignore the traditional food crops that provide sustenance to small farmers,
often directing their efforts toward a single large commercial crop. As
agriculture becomes more commercialized, the scope for profit-oriented
extension for high-value crops broadens. Meanwhile, a public service
extensior that is responsive to the problems and opportunities facing farm
families has a critical role to play in the development of the Sri Lankan
agriculture.
Extension and Research
1.14      Government involvement in agricultural extension in Sri Lanka began
on a limited scale long before independence. After independence in 1948, rice
production was accorded an increasing importance, moving the Government to
establish research facilities, and seed production and demonstrations sites in
the major settlement schemes. Agricultural instructors began to function as
field extension staff.
1.15      In 1963, two important changes took place.  The Division of
Agricultural Extension was established within the DOA, and the extension
system, which had long emphasized only rice, began to include other crops. In
1991, the Division of Agricultural Extension became the Technology Transfer
Division, embracing education, training, and communication. An informal
National Agricultural Extension Working Group (NAEWG) was also established,
but its functions are ill-defined (para 4.2 (b)).
1.16      The Bank's Involvement.  At the time of the preparation of the
AEARP in 1977, management of agriculture extension was diverse and
uncoordinated. Extension quality and delivery systems varied by crop, and the
delivery of messages to small farmers was inefficient. The AEARP was meant to
address these problems, following the design of earlier statewide T&V
extension and adaptive research projects in India. T&V extension was first
introduced on a pilot scale, as a component of the Tank Irrigation and
Modernization Project (Cr. 666-CE) financed by IDA in 1976. Positive results
on irrigated agriculture led to replication in rainfed areas.



1.17      The objective of the AEARP was to assist Srl Lanka ln applying the
T&V system of extensLon to the entlre country, to strengthen adaptlve
research, and to Improve and ezpand the trsininj of extensLon staff. The
project provlded infrastructure, equlpment, training, and funds for salarLes
and allowances for 1,789 additional staff to achLeve stafflng patterns in
accordance with agreed norms. At full development, the itaff-intenslve
extension system was ezpected to benefit all operati4.'.l holdings, or about
1.6 million people in 1986. AEARP was Implemented   - 1979 to 1986.
1.18      On the positlve side, AEARP helped establish a more focussed
extension system for fleld crops. The strength of T&V extenslon during 1979-84
was lts ability to focus on a few sample messages that were important at the
time.   Despite belng weak, the project initlated research-extensLon linkages
at the reglonal level by establishlng of Regional Technical Working Groups
(RTWGs) (para 4.2 (c)) at each Regional Research Center (Map IBRD 23349R),
diagnostlc teams, and monthly research-extensLon dlalogue meetLngs. Training
provlded through the project was useful. Overall, the project is considered
to have had a positlve impact on the agrlcultural sector, helped Government
agencies become more aware of the need for a cost-effective extenaLon system
deslgned to meet the real needs of the sector, and provided valuable lessons
for redesigning of the system.
1.19      On the negative side, the shortage of operating funds for the
extension system was a crltlcal problem, and a unlfled extension servLce was
never established.  Other agricultural activities such as horticulture, minor
export crops, and coconut productlon dld not receive enough attention, and
animal husbandry was excluded. The contact farmer's role as the main agent of
technology transfer was quite limited, while the RTWG's effectiveness in
providlng research-extensLon llnkages was weakened because of inappropriate
deployment of subject matter specLalLsts. The specialists, who were to have
directed the fortnLghtly training sessions, instead, provided training only in
residential courses, which extension agents could attend once a year. Subject
matter officers, who are not graduates, directed the foitnLghtly tralning.
The proposed project would address this issue (para 4.20).   The Project
Completion Report (No. 7684, March 31, 1989) and the draft Audlt Report,
(December 23, 1991) lnclude a detalled revLew of the problems and achlevements
of the AEARP.
1.20      Recent Develor e,&ts.   The extension system did not adapt to new
extension challenges after 1985. Paddy yields leveled off, and new problems
arose when the extension system attempted to diversify to other crops. The
simple technical messages assoclated wLth the slngle-crop (paddy) approach of
the past was no longer adequate, but the system was unable to adapt to the
more complex demands of a multicrop system, whlch required a whole-farm
approach. Sustainability became a critlcal lssue by the end of project
implementation. The costs of operatlng the extensLon system became
prohibitively high for the Government, especially ln vlew of the stagnating
benefits. Expenditures for operating the system were drastically cut. In
1988, two years after the end of project implementation, agriculture extension
was costing the Government almost 1 percent of agrlcultural GDP. Staff
salaries alone accounted for about 85-90X of operating costs. The cutback in
other resources meant a drastic reduction in the offectiveness of the
extension system, which was set up by the project to rely heavily on staff
mobllity. It was becoming clear that the current staff-intensive, face-to-face
system was not cost effectlve. As support for this relatively expensive



extension system weakened, its sustainability became seriously jeopardiLed.
The Government transferred 2,400 village-level extension agents (KVS) to Lts
Poverty Alleviation Program, maklng the sustainability of AZARP doubtful.
1.21      The recent devolution of authority from the center to the provinces
under this 13th Amendment of the Constitution (November 14, 1987) and the
transfer of the village-level extension agents are changes of paramount
Importance to agricultural extension. The structure of devolved powera
comprises three levels: center, province and division. To place this In
perspective, Sri Lanka has 9 provinces divlded into 24 districts and 289
divisions. Below the division is the range, which is the level at which the
extension agent/ normally operates. The Central Government (MADR) is
responsible for overall policy and inter-provincial coordlnation. The
Provincial Ministry of Agriculture (PMOA) is responsible for formulating
grovincial policies and strategLes and for coordlnating and monitoring
activlties. The divisLon is the focal polnt for implementation of the entlre
provincial administration. The Divlslonal Secretary/Additional Government
Agent (DS/AGA) of the Ninistry of Publlc Administration, Provincial Councils
and Home Affairs (MPAPCHA) is responsible for implementing the development
programs in the administrative division.
1.22      The PMOA now has complete operational responsibility for
agrlcultural and livestock extension. The heads of the provincial Departments
of Agrlculture and Livestock exercise technical, adminLstratlve and fLnancial
control over the lower tler of official°' -- the Veterlnary Surgeons and the
Assistants Directors of Agrlculture. At the division level, the DS/AGA
presides over a team of local officials drawn form the divisional services.
Two functional specialists assist the DS/AGA: the agricultural instructor,
who operates at range level or from an Agrarlan Service Centeri/ at the
division level, and the livestock development officer, who operates at the
divisional level. Functionally, these two specialists operate under their
technical supervisor, the Assistant Director of Agriculture and the Veterinary
Surgeon respectively; administratively, the DS/AGA is their supervisor.
These dual lines of command threaten the restoration of an effective and
efficient extension service.  The project would address this issue (para 4.3).
°    The term extension agent applies to all persons with that role
within an organization and includes the agriculture lnstructor
(DOA), the livestock development instructor (DAPH), the extension
officer (DEA), and the coconut cultivation agent (MCICD's Coconut
Cultivation Board).
VS   Provision of services to minor export crops (DEA), coconut
smallholders (coconut cultivatlon board), and plantations
agriculture (toa, rubber and coconut) remains under the control of
central Government agencies.
31   Since 1970, the Department of Agrarian Services has constructed 528
Agrarian Servlce Centers, with offices for divisional staff and
agricultural instructors, banking facilities, and stores for seed,
fertilizers and agro-chemicals, to accommo,date the multiple
functions.



-7-
1.23      The devolution process represents a major, posltive move toward
giving provincial and rural communities greater power and voice in the
development process. For agricultural extension, it provides an opportunity
to shift to a demand-driven support service that is responsive and accountable
to its clients, and thus sustainable. Experience in several European and
Latin American countries, (Brazil, ChileV, and Mexico), shows that farmers
will increasingly share the costs of extension as they become more aware of
its value and will event-ially employ their own advisers to lnteract directly
with research and government agencies.   The proposed project would promote
accountability through a farmer-centered, farming systems approach to
extension that would be embodied in the principles of the extension system. A
pilot extension component would also help the central Government explore the
possibilities of gradually divesting itself of extension activities.
1.24      The transfer of the village-level extension agents (KVS) cut the
staff by about 60X and badly disrupted field extension activities. Under the
Janasaviya Program, the KVS joined the other general-purpose vlllage-level
workers known as the Grama Niladhari. The 14,550 Grama Niladaris collect data
and perform regulatory functions at the local administration levels. The
former extension agents perform no extension work under this system, and their
links wvia D"nA, including that technical links have just about disappeared.
Hovever, with the exception of 300 KVS with two-year diplomas in agriculture
who would be returned to HADR, KVSs were low-level extension agents of limited
effectlveness. Therefore, thelr transfer may be less of a loss than might at
first appear. Earlier extension projects have shown that extension agents
must have the professional competence to understand the farmlng system as a
whole, possess diagnostic skills, be able to identify appropriate options, and
effectively draw on different sources of information. This argues for agents
with some academic tralning in agriculture, as is the case with the extension
agents remaining in Sri Lanka.   Second, the country's small size, relatively
good transportation system, and the hlgh level of literacy among farmers do
not justify a staff-intensive, face-to-face extension system.
1.25      This period of change in extension services provides an opportunity
to incorporate extension principles that can gradually Improve the system's
effectiveness. Agricultural training would also need to be strengthened and
adapted to rapid technological development and changing requirements. IDA's
assistance would be critical in achieving this objective and in helping the
Government and the MADR to establish a cost-effective extension system that
meets the needs of farmers, as they expand into new crops.
1.26      Research.  Agricultural research is carried out by some 16
institutions in six minlstries. With the assistance of the ongoing IDA-
supported ARP, which became effective in January 1988, the Government is
making good progress in overcoming the problems arising from this
fragmentation and in integrating research efforts and developing a research
strategy to meet evolving needs in agriculture. A strong research effort on
subsidiary food crops over the past few years has facilitated the emergence of
2V   Project Performance Audit Report (No 7302), -Chile - Second
Agricultural Credit Project.
V    SustainabilitX Issues in Agricultural Development.  Seventh
Agriculture Sector Symposium. 1987.



- 8 -
new varieties and recommendations, which have been reported regularly in
"Hlghllghts of Research," a perlodlc publication of the DOA. Recently the DOA
complled a useful compendium of crop recommendations by agro-ecological
regions .
1.27      The establishment of the Sri Lanka Council of Agricultural Research
Policy (CARP) was a posLtive move toward rationalizing agricultural research.
The council formulates natlonal agrlcultural research policy and priorLties
and advLses the Government on the organization, coordination, planning, and
executlon of agrlcultural research and related matters referred to it by the
Nlnister. The council is playing a major role in the preparatlon of the
National Agricultural Research Plan and Status Review Reports, whLch will
provide detalled lnformation about the dLscrete agro-ecological farming
situations in the service area of each Regional Research Center and about
farmer practLces and constraints to production. This information is a
prerequisLte for effLcLent TLanning and for research that contributes to the
development of technologies appropriate to farmers. However, because the
council does not include representatlves of the main agencles engaged ln
extension ln Srl Lanka, lt does not provLde a good conceptual framework for
advLsing Government on research - related extenslon matters, such as
extension and research-extenslon-farmer linkages. The proposed project would
address this issue (par& 4.2 (a)).
1.28      Another promising development is the formation of a diagnostic team
of two to three scientists at each research statLon. The sclentlsts,
accompanied by local extension staff, visit farmers' fields each cropping
season to learn about problems and constraints in the adoption of new
technology. The project would capitalize on the Status RevLew Report and on
dLagnostic teams through the farmer-centered, farming systems approach to
extension (para 4.6).
Plant Protection and Pesticide Manaaement
1.29      The recently amalgamated Seed Certiflcation Service and Plant
Protection Division of NADR has the important task of protecting agriculture
from damaging pests and diseases and reducing pesticide-related accidents,
unsafe disposal, and labeling violations. A crltlcal lack of physical
infrastructure and human resources prevents the divlslon from carrying out
this mandate. Specific project interventions, dosigned to complement the
activities of other donors (USAID and the Japan International Cooperation
Agency (JICA)), are proposed to overcome this deficiency (paras 2.6, 2.7).
SAe4
1.30      Seed Production.  Seeds brought the technology of the Green
Revolutlon to farmers, and seeds are likely to be the main means by which
farmers acquire the new biotechnology. During the past 20 years, seed-related
activLtLes have been handled by the DOA, with the assLatance of varLous donor
agencLes. The Research Dlvlsion has been responsLble for introducing,
developing, and testing new varLeties, while the Seed end Planting Naterlals
DlvisLon has undertaken multlplicatlon, processang, storage, and dLstributLon
2/   "Crop Recommendations for Adoption in Grama Niladarl DlvLsLons of
Srl Lanka." Department of AgrLculture, Peradenya - 1990.



of the seed. The Seed Certification Division has provided quality control
services.
1.31      The Seed and Planting Materials Division, with staff spread
throughout the country, operates 23 seed farms and 14 seed processing centers
producing all classes of seed, from foundation to certified. The Mahaweli
Authority! also operates three seed farms. Donor participation has resulted
in an institutionalized dependency on donor assistance for most capital and
training requirements. Donors have provided such capital acquisitions as farm
implements, seed cleaners, seed drying floors, warehouses, and lorries, which
are managed by the Seed Division. The division does not include the initial
cost or depreciation of these capital inputs in its accounts, and no system is
in place to repay loans and grants. This large subsidy to the Government's
seed program working capital at zero percent interest and forglveness of
losses acts as a brake on private sector activity, which must rely on its own
financial resources. A number of marketing costs, including transportation
and personnel provided by the Technology Transfer Division, are also not added
to the price of the seed -- another significant subsidy. The massive
government seed farm and processing and storage infrastructure are neither
cost-effective nor necessary. Aligning production requirements with realistic
sales expectations and shifting registered seed production of rice to private
contract growers would reduce thte required farm infrastructure to a fraction
of its current size. Experience in Sri Lanka shows that a shift from seed
farms to contract growers is entirely feasible. Pressure has been applied by
the Finance Ministry to resolve these difficulties and to eliminate losses.
Plans are being formulated to close redundant farms, to lease them to the
private sector, or to distribute them among the landless.
1.32      The Seed Certification Service is effective and well-organized and
provides a complete package of services countrywide. In 1990, approximately
4,500 hectares of seeds were field inspected. Two internationally certified
seed laboratories (Peradeniya and Maha Illuppallama) easily handled the 18,000
samples analyzed in 1990. The principal client of the Seed Certification
Service is the Seed Division; almost no private sector flelds are being
certified.
1.33      Seed Policy.  To deliver better service to farmers at lower cost,
the Government is pursuing a national policy to increase private sector
participation in seed production and distribution. Statements from both the
Finance and Agriculture Ministries clearly call for Government withdrawal from
the commercial seed business. The major obstacle is the lack of a national
seed policy that is published or recognized by the various branches of
government, donor agencies, and the private sector. For imported seeds, the
Seed Certification Division handles rudimentary seed regulatory activities,
ensuring that the seed variety is on the DOA's list of recommended varieties
and that it meets quarantine requirements. Restrictions based on the list of
recommended varieties have been problematlc in recent years, in part because
of the emergence of commercial interests in the seed sector and the need for
varieties for export markets. Testing and quarantine regulations for getting
new varieties on the recommended list are numerous and time-consuming, so with
QV The Mahaweli Authority has been responsible for the planning,
implementation, organization and management of the Mahaweli
Development Program since the early 1970s.



- 10 -
the exception of paddy, not enough new varieties have been released by the
DOA. The private sector's participation in the seed program has been limited
to importing and marketing vegetable and potato seeds and, more recently, to
establishing a network for the sale of seed produced by the DOA. A system is
needed to enable commercial quantities of imported seed to be tested rapidly,
to demonstrate to farmars the advantages and returns associated with the new
materials, and to efficiently service the market with high-quality seed for as
long as it is profitable. The policy and procedures for introducing new
varieties into Sri Lanka need to be documented and published, and performance
standards must be instituted. The Diversified Agricultural Research Project
(DARP), funded by USAID, provides assistance to the DOA seed activities to
facilitate the preparation a national seed policy. The project would
complement this effort and would also provide assistance to review the
existing plant regulations (para 2.15).
D. Bank/IDA's StrateRX in the Agricultural Sector
Past and Ongoing Lending Operations
1.34      During the last two decades, IDA has supported agricultural
development in Sri Lanka through 24 projects involving US$ 549 million in
loans. This lending emphasized the expansion of rice production through new
irrigation systems, and the rehabilitation of the tree crop sector. Emphasis
on irrigation is now shifting to rehabilitation, improved maintenance, and
more efficient use of existing schemes, as exemplified by the now closed
Village Irrigation Project (Cr. 1160-CE) and Major Irrigation Project (Cr.
1537-CE) and the recently approved National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 2260-CE). IDA's assistance for agricultural support services has
involved discrete extension inputs for commodity and area development
projects, including the Kurunegala Rural Development (Cr. 891-CE) and Second
Rural Development Projects (Cr. 1079-CE), and major extension and research
inputs for nationwide projects such as the AEARP and ARP.
1.35      IFC is investing US$3.0 million in equity in the Capital
Development and Investment Corporation, whose market consists primarily of
medium-large industrial companies and groups undertaking new projects. This
market has been hurt by the recurrent violence of the last seven years in Sri
Lanka. The corporation's other market is privatized Government enterprises.
1.36      Through the Diversified Agricultural Research Project, USAID is
helping to generate technology for subsidiary food crop production, improve
DOA's research capability, and disseminate technology for small farmers. The
ADB, through its Agricultural Program Loan, is supporting a broad range of
agricultural development policies and programs.
1.37      Lessons learned.  The proposed project incorporates several lessons
from AEARP and similar work in other countries W and from the Bank's
involvement in the seed sector:
8/   "Project Performance Audit Report (No. 8808), India." July 1990.
"Draft Project Performance Audit Report, Nepal." January 1992.



- 11 -
(a) An institutional framework is crucial for better defining,
coordinating, and implementing a sustainable extension strategy and
for strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages at the
national level (para 4.2 (a)).
(b) An extension system should be cost-effective and sustainable under
projected budgetary allocations to the agricultural sector (paras
2.4 and 4.6).
(c) An extension system that relies on relatively fewer, better
qualified staff is likely to be more cost-effective than the one
that relies on large number of staff (para 2.4).
(d) A whole-farm approach to extension is required, especially one that
works to identify groups of farmers with similar values and
concerns (a reference group) and to use the group as extension
target (paras 4.6-4.12).
(e) Appropriate deployment of subject matter specialists is required to
provide the desired research-extension linkages (para 4.20).
(f) The science-based seed industry needs an enabling seed policy to
make best use of innovations and new technologies (para 2.15).
Rationale for Further IDA Involvement
1.38      The proposed project is an important component of IDA's three-
pronged agricultural sector assistance strategy. At its centerpiece, the
strategy calls for promotion of agricultural diversification for import
substitution and export. Other elements are improved performance of the
public irrigation services and improved efficiency and international
competitiveness of the tree crop sector. The project focuses on agricultural
extension, plant protection and pesticide management, and seed policy --
activities that are pivotal in promoting agricultural diversification and
increasing farmer income and export earnings. The project also has strong
linkages with the ARP, as a means of linking research and extension, and with
the IDA Poverty Alleviation Project, as a means of encouraging the active
participation of farm households in decision-making and facilitating their
integration into the production process.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.1       The proposed project would increase farmers' income and
agricultural production by improving farm productivity through, inter alia,
promotion of innovative technology. To achieve this objective the project
would: (a) strengthen agricultural extension services (except for tree crops);
and (b) develop a national seed policy.



- 12 -
B.  ;roiect Components
2.2       Over a six-year implementation period (1993--98), the proposed
project would consist of: (a) a multifaceted program to improve agricultural
extension services including closer integration of existing extension
services, improved use of mass media, strengthened plant protection,
quarantine and pest control, safer and more effective use of pesticides,
training, and a private sector pilot extension program; (b) improved seed
policy; and (c) establishment of a project management unit.
2.3       The proposed project would be national in scope.  About lOX of
total costs have been included in unallocated funds to facilitate early start-
up activities in the north and eastern provinces once security is restored
there. On-site appraisal satisfactory to IDA of all relevant parts of the
project. and formulation of implementation arrangements satisfactory to IDA
would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures for oRerations in
the northern and eastern grovinces (Rara 6.3).
C. Detailed Features
Extension Program (Base cost US$15.92 million)
2.4       Integrated Azricultural Extension Services  (Base cost US$6.90
million). The project would develop a much smaller, more refined extension
service than under the AEARP. It would be based on a cadre of 1,697 extension
agents:  1,119 extension agents from the DOA,1W 250 livestock development
instructors from the DAPH, 160 extension officers from the DEA and 168 coconut
development officers from MCICD's Coconut Cultivation Board (Annex 2). All
extension agents would have two-year diploma in agriculture or the
equivalent. The project would use infrastructure constructed under the AEARP
and would also finance some investments, including staff quarters, vehicles
and motorcycles, and incremental operating expenses for operation, field
trials, maintenance cost of vehicles, and staff travel and allowances.
Motorcycles would be provided to staff on credit, repayable through salary
deductions. Complementary input to this component would be provided by the
ADB, which would strengthen MCICD's extension services under the proposed
Second Coconut Development Project. A memorandum of understanding between the
MADR and the MCICD defining their responsibilities and linkages in the
provision of extension services is part of the action plan (para 4.22).
2.5       Mass Media  (Base cost US$O.?6 million).  The proposed project
would establish a communication strategy, making full use of available group
and mass media extension methods, to optimize the use of time with the farming
community. Mass media, particularly the print media, would come into
prominence, complementing and reinforcing personal communication between
extension and research officers and farm households through field days, method
demonstrations, and small group discussions. The private sector would play a
12/   Includes 520 agricultural instructors, 267 subject matter officers
and 332 Grama Niladaris with two-year diplomas of agriculture. The
MADR has requested that the Grama Niladaris be released from their
present duties by the MPAPCHA and appointed as agricultural
instructors.



- 13 -
dominant role in the mass media production. The project would provide
contract services to enable the private sector to produce film, videotapes,
printed matter, and exhibit materials. The project would also provide offset
printing facilities, and video and screen printing equipment for DOA's
Technology Transfer Division. Media campaigns would also include radio and
television coverage.
2.6       Plant Protection  (Base cost US$0.67 million).  The project would
assist the Plant Protection subdivision of the Seed Certification Service and
Plant Protection Division to undertake regulatory and technical functions to
prevent the introduction of new pests and the spread of identified pests. The
assistance would include the construction of staff quarters at headquarters
and regional offices, insect-proof screen houses, office equipment for
headquarters and regional offices, laboratory equipment, insect breeding
equipment, training equipment, vehicles for headquarters and regional offices,
48 additional staff, short- and long-term staff training, and farmer training.
The proposed project activities would complement the planned activities of the
quarantine review (a review of present regulations, amendment of legislation,
and publication of plant quarantine procedures to guide the private sector)
supported by the USAID financed DARP. A new quarantine facility might also be
financed by the Japan Grant Aid Scheme. The quarantine review is expected to
be completed mid 1992, and the new quarantine facility might be operational in
early 1994.
2.7       Pesticide Control  (Base cost US$0.27 million).  The proposed
project would assist the Pesticide Control subdivision of the Seed
Certification Service and Plant Protection Division to undertake regulatory
activities affecting pesticide and an outreach program to inform pesticide
dealers, farmers, manufacturers, and agricultural officers about safe and
effective pesticide use. The assistance would include the establishment of
seven regional offices for subject matter specialists in pesticide control and
plant protection. Assistance would consist of various improvements at
headquarters, including office renovation, new staff quarters, office and
laboratory equipment, vehicles, 18 additional staff, short- and long-term
staff training, and local training of pesticide users. The result would be to
initiate pesticide regulatory functions and increase the competence of
pesticide dealers and users throughout Sri Lanka.
2.8       Training  (Base cost US$4.52 million).  The project would support a
variety of formal and in-service training for extension staff making full use
of the DOA National Training Institutte, the Regional Training Institutes, and
the training institutions of the Coconut Cultivation Board (Lunuwila), the DEA
(Matale), and the DAPH (Gannoruwa, Anuradhapura, Welisara, Matara, and
Undugoda). The Agricultural Extension Committee proposed under the project
would ensure effective utilization of these training institutes (para 4.18).
The institutes are expected to provide various types of training during about
60,000 days each year, given a five day working week and all nine regional
institutes operating conservatively for 36 weeks at a total capacity of 340
trainees. The regional institutes would allocate 40X of their time to the
training of PMOA officers and extension officers from the DEA, DAPH and the
Coconut Cultivation Board. Extension agents would receive three-day pre-
seasonal training twice a year; assistant directors of agriculture and subject
matter specialists would receive five-day training courses. The 21 District
Agricultural Training Centers would continue to provide vocational training
for youths and farmers.



- 14 -
2.9       To broaden the training program, the project would support a range
of training investments. These include construction of a Regional Training
Institute in Sabaragamuwa Province, expansion and renovation of the National
Training Institute in Gannoruwa, renovation and refurbishment of District
Agricultural Training Center buildings and facilities, additional housing for
core staff and visiting consultants, water supply improvements at three
regional institutes, and upgrading of the Farm Broadcasting Center in Colombo.
The project would also provide funding for associated field, technical, and
office equipment. Regional Institutes would be supplied with video cassette
recording equipment and slide projectors. All District Agricultural Training
Centers would receive manual typewriters, portable field kits, and megaphones.
2.10      The project would also enhance the career development of selected
staff through post graduate courses at institutions abroad. Split programs of
course work abroad and field work at home would be recommended. The project
would include 1,258 months for long-term training and 310 months for short-
term training in non-degree programs for selected senior staff in their field
of competence. Part of the fellowships would be used for training within the
Asia Region (about 50X). Long-term training would focus on extension-related
matters including extension methodology and communication skills, extension
organization and management, mass media production, and specialized courses in
research methods, export agriculture, animal production, environment and
health, pesticides, plant protection and seed certification (para 4.18 and
Annex 4).
2.11      Private Sector Pilot Extension Program  (Base cost USS0.96
million). The project would provide three person-months of expatriate
technical assistance and siN person-months of local technical assistance to
facilitate preparation of a plan of action for the introduction of the pilot
program (para 4.21 and Annex 8). The project would also provide funds to help
private extension consulting firms and non governmental organizations (NGOs)
conduct specific extension programs with smallholders. The proposed program
is based partly on similar ones supported by the Bank in Chile.11' It would
seek to reduce the involvement of public sector institutions, to increase
farmers' responsibility for and sense of ownership of extension services, and
to strengthen the perception that farmers, as extension clients, have the
right to draw on services and set extension agendas. Extension agents, for
their part, will be helped to assess their performance according to the
judgement and perspective of their clients.
2.12      The program would be temporary, consisting of an integrated set of
technical assistance actions carried out with farmers over a period of three
years, followed by another less-intensive three-year phase. The program would
prepare farmers to sign annual contracts with private firms or NGOs of their
choice and to bear some of the cost of the service. Each consulting firm or
NGO would work in agroecologically homogeneous area, enabling it to focus more
effectively on a relatively small set of problems and crops.
2.13        Typically, a contract would specify the number of visits a
participating farmer would receive from the extension agent or subject matter
specialists, the number of days of field demonstrations, and the number of
IV   "Second Agricultural Credit Project:  Project Performance Audit
Report" (No. 7302). Chile. June 22, 1988.



- 15 -
trainirsg meetings and demonstration plots. The agent would develop annual and
long-term plans with the farmer and discuss agroeconomic aspects of the farm
operation during each visit. For groups of farmers with similar production
circumstances, training would be given through demonstrations and actual case
studies by the contracted firms or NGOs. Field days on production aspects of
specific agro-ecological zones would be provided annually. Home economics
training would also be provided to farm families.
2.14      Other approaches would also be encouraged and tested under the
project, to meet the requirements of the various communities and
agroecological regions in Sri Lanka. These could include fee for service
activities, community group responsibility for support, and cost-sharing
partnerships between local groups and public sector institutions.
Seed Policy (Base cost US$0.03 million)
2.15      The project would provide three person-months of expatriate
technical assistance and one person-month of local technical assistance to
facilitate preparation of a national seed policy and plant quarantine
regulations. These would define the role of the private and public sectors so
as to strengthen the farmer seed producer-sellers to meet the national demand
for improved seeds. The seed policy should promote a conducive environment
for greater participation of the private sector including small scale seed
producers. It should provide for establishment of a National Seed Board
comprising members from both private and public sectors and encourage free in
and outflow of germplasm, subject only to customary quarantine regulations,
thereby ensuring that the Sri Lankan farmers access to high-quality seed of
the best suited varieties developed anywhere in the world. Private seed firms
should be encouraged to conduct plant breeding research. The regulation of
varietal testing and registration should be simplified and they should cater
to the needs of private firms and public institutions. Varieties should be
approved by the Board or one of its committees on its merits, irrespective of
its origin from private firms or public institutions, and after the variety is
registered, the farmer should be free to use the best one. The project would
also review existing plant regulations and recommended necessary amendments to
facilitate the exchange of germplasm and facilities that may be required for
its implementation.    Durint negotiations agreements were reached with GOSL
that a national seed Rolicv. satisfactory to IDA. would be formulated by June
30. 1993. and that measures satisfactory to the Association would be adopted
to implement such policy by June 30. 1994 (para 6.1 (a)).
Proiect Management Unit (Base cost US$0.30 million)
2.16      Responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Secretary, MADR, assisted by a project management unit (PNU) headed by a
project manager. The project would establish the PMU -- consisting of a
project manager, adviser, civil engineer, procurement officer, training
coordinator, account officer, and support staff -- and would finance
incremental operating costs. A similar PHU established under the ARP is
performing well. The responsibilities of the PHU include day-to-day
implementation of the project and monitoring and evaluating project progress
through an annual review mechanism and studies (paras 4.5 and 4.23-4.26). An
architectural firm would assist the PMU to implement the civil works program
(paras 3.4 and 4.5). The PNU would be a temporary feature and would function
for the duration of the project.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.1       The total cost of the proposed project over its six-year
implementation period is estimated at Rs 874.54 million (US$18.32 million
equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$9.45 million or 51.9% of
total cost (Table 3.1 and Annex 5). The cost estimates are in July 1991
prices and include physical contingencies of 5%. The project cost includes Rs
120.8 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) in taxes and duties. The following
inflation values have been used in calculating price contingencies for local
expenditures: 9.4% for 1992, 7.5% for 1993. 6.5% for 1994, 6.0% for 1995, and
5.0% for 1996 and thereafter for foreign expenditures 3.9% was used for all
yearslW . The exchange rates used for FY93 through FY98 are Rs 46.0, 47.1,
48.1, 48.6, 49.1 and 49.6, respectively, to the US dollar.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Sumnary
Rs (Million)               US$ (Million)       S Total
I Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total  Exchanie  Costs
Extension Servioes         326.97  365.33  692.30     7.41  8.18   15.59    52.77    98.0
Seed Policy                  -      1.16    1.16      0.00  0.03    0.03   100.00    0.2
Project MHnagement Unit     10.76    2.57   13.33     0.24  0.06    0.30    19.72    1.9
Total Baseline Costs       337.74  369.05  706.79     7.65 8.27   15.92    51.94   100.0
Physical Contingencies      11.75   16.68   28.43     0.26  0.38    0.64    58.89    4.0
Price Contingenoies        76.36   62.96  139.32      0.96 0.80    1.76    45.20    11.1
Total Contingencies         88.11   79.64  167.75     1.22  1.18    2.40
Total Projects Coats       425.85  448.69  874.54     8.87  9.45   18.32    51.53   115.1
B. Project Financing
3.2       The IDA credit of SDR 10.5 million (US$14.34 million equivalent),
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, would cover about 78.3% of
total project cost, excluding taxes and duties. IDA would finance the cost of
new and rehabilitated civil works, vehicles, motorcycle equipment and
supplies, technical assistance, farmer/client training, and a declining
portion of the project incremental staff, operations, and maintenance costs.
The Government of Sri Lanka would contribute an amount equivalent to US$3.79
million, including about US$2.5 million of taxes and duties. Farmers would
contribute an amount equivalent to US$0.19 million. Table 3.2 summarizes the
project financing plan by component.
W    Asia Country Department I.  Memo of July 23, 1991



- 17
Table 3.2 Financlng Plan
(US$ mIllion)
IDA     GOSL  FARKKES      Total
Estension Services          14.07    3.68   0.19          17.94
Seed Policy                  0.03    0.00    -             0.03
Project Management Unlt     I0M                            I=1-3
Total Costs                 14.34    3.79   0.19          18.32
3.3       In order to ensure an early start of the project, retroactlve
financing of SDR 185,000 (about US$250,000) would be made available for
expenditures Incurred between May 1, 1992 and credlt signing for establishiag
PHU, hlrlng an archltectural flrm, recrultlng technical asslstance, and to
moet the cost of fev foreign fellowshlps.
C. Prog=ement
3.4       Civil Uork.  Project clvil works (about US$2.2 million) would
consist mainly of co-struction of houses and some offices, fencing, provision
of water supply, and land leveling. Work would be scattered throughout the
country and would be Implemented over the project period.  Slnce designs would
be simple and constructLon techniques labor intensive, the contracts would not
be suitable for International bidding. Instead, they would be let through
local competitlve biddLng procedures acceptable to IDA with foreign bidders
allowed to partlcipate. An architectural/engineering firm vould be hired to
refine existing designs and estLmates, prepare bidding documents, and
supervLse constructlon (para 4.5). Sultable local construction flrms exlst In
sufficient numbers to ensure adequate competltion.
3.5       Vehicles. Equipment. Trainina. Consultants, and Contract Services.
Procurement of vehicles and equlgment (about US$4.0 million) would be bulked
to the extent possible In homogeneous packages. VehLeles, sclentiflc
equipment, computers, and farm equipment and machinery would be procured
through international competitlve bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. A preference limlted to 15X of the c.i.f prlce of imported goods
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Contract packages estlmated to cost
less than US$100,000 each and totaling approximately US$1.0 million would be
procured under local competitive bidding. Small, off-the-shelf items
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 for each contract, up to an aggregate of
US$0.5 million, would be procured through prudent local shopping. Contracts
for vehicles, farm machinery, and equipment would require the supplier to
maintain an adequate after-sales inventory of spare parts. Overseas and local
SXalnJng (US$5.1 million), consultants for technical assistance (US$0.2
mallion), grivate gilot extension orograms (US$1.1 million), and studies
(US$0.1 aillion) would be procured in accordance vlth the World Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants." Contracts for mass media services
(US$1.6 million) such as print media material and radio and televisLon
production would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA; prudent shopping could be used for small contracts valued
at less than US$50,000 each. Incremental staff salaries and ogeratine cost
(US$4.0 million) would be handled following normal Government practices and
would not involve procurement. All the above figures include contingencies,
which amount to US$2.4 million.



- 18 -
3.6       Contract Review. About 100 bidding packages are anticipated under
the project, most of them for cLvil works, vehicles, scientiflc equlpment and
farm equlpment. For civll works contracts of US$150,000 equivalent or more
and for machlnery, equipment, vehicles, and other goods costing US$75,000
equivalent or more, procurement documentation would be submitted to IDA for
prior review and concurrence would be sought before contracts are awarded.
About 20X of contracts, covering 50X of the total value of contracts, would be
subject to such prior review. From the ongoing ARP (Cr. 1776-CE), the MADR is
familiar with IDA's requLrements for the preparatlon of bidding documents and
procedures for bid evaluation and disbursement, and its performance has been
satisfactory. The procurement arrangements for all project elements are given
in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)a
Procurement Method            Total
Project Element                          ICB      LCB    Other           Cost
1.   Civil Works
1.1 Building                                 2.2                    2.2
(1.9)                 (1.9)
2. Goods
2.1  Equipment, Transportation       1.6      .75     .25           2.6
Equipment, Agrlculture           .4    .1       .1              .6
Equipment, Data Prccessing       .4    .1       .1              .6
Equipment, Educational           .1    .05       .05            .2
(1.5)   (.5)   ( .3)          (2.3)
3.   Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance                              .2             .2
(.2)          ( .2)
4.   Training
4.1  Fellovships                                    4.8             4.8
4.2  Local Training                                   .3             .3
(5.*1)         (5.*1)
5.   Contract Services
5.1 Mass Media                              1.2       .4            1.6
5.2  Prlvate Pilot Extension                        1.1b           1.1
5.3  Studles                                          .1             .1
(1.0)   (1.2)          (2.2)
6.  Miscellaneous
6.1  Inc. Salaries & Operating Costs                4.0             4.0
(2.5)          (2.5)
Total                                   2.5     4.4    11.4             18.3
(1.5)   (3.4)    (9.4)         (14.3)
a/ Includes taxes, duties and contingencies. Flgures in parentheses are the
amounts financed by IDA.
b/ Farmers would contribute an amount equLvalent to US$0.2 million.



- 19 -
D. Disbursements
3.7       Disbursement of the IDA credit would extend over eight and a half
years (1993-2001) in accordance with the disbursement profile for agriculture
in the Asia Region. It would cover the following:
(a) 85% of expenditures on civil works, including constructlon
materials, architect fees, and supervision costs;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported materials,
vehicles, equipment, and supplies; 100% of ex-factory expenditures
for locally manufactured goods; and 70% of expenditures on goods
procured locally;
(c) 100% of foreign and local training, and 100% of technical
assistance;
(d) 90% of incremental staff salaries, allowances, and operation and
maintenance cost until December 31, 1993, 70% until December 31,
1996, and 50% of expenditures incurred thereafter;
(e) 80% of expenditures for contract services for pilot extension
programs; and
(f) 80% of contract services for the production of media and studies.
3.8       Disbursements of less than US$75,000 equivalent under all contracts
for civil works, vehicles, scientific equipment, farm equipment, and pilot
extension programs under para 3.7 (a)-(c), and disbursements of US$10,000
equivalent under para 3.7 (f) would be supported by certified statements of
expenditures. PMU would retain supporting documents for these expenditures,
which would be made available to IDA representatives on request.
Disbursements under para 3.7 (d) above would be supported in the same way.
Full documentation would be required for items under para 3.7 (c). Documents
for disbursements covered by statements of expenditures would be audited
annually at the concerned institution by auditors acceptable to IDA, and the
documents would be retained by the PNU. An estimated disbursement schedule is
presented in Annex 6. The closing date would be June 30, 1999.
3.9       To facilitate project execution, the Government of Sri Lanka would
establish a Special Account in U.S. dollars with the Central Bank in Colombo.
This account would be operated by the MADR. An initial advance of US$600,000
equivalent would be authorized, covering about four months of eligible
expenditures. The special account would be replenished through periodlc
reimbursement, either monthly or whenever the balance of the authorized
allocation falls below 40%, whichever comes first.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Coordination
4.1       A Project Coordination Committee would be established in the NADR
to ensure coordinated implementation of project activities. It would be
chaired by the Secretary of the MADR, and members would include the
Secretaries of concerned ministries (or their designated representatives),



- 20 -
Provincial Secretaries of Agriculture, representatives of the National
Planning and Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance, and the Central
Environment Authority. The project manager would act as a member-secretary of
the committee. The committee would meet at least once every six months to
review progress and resolve delays. During negotiations agreement was reached
with GOSL that the Project Coordination Committee with membership.
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA would be established by
December 31. 1992 and maintained thereafter (gara 6.1 (b)).
4.2       Because the project's integrated extension service will provide
services to foodcrop and livestock farmers, for which responsibility has been
devolved to the Provinces (PMOA), and to minor export crop (DEA) and coconut
smallholders (Coconut Cultivation Board), which remain the responsibility of
central Government agencies, sharing and coordination of resources need to be
monitored at the national level. Policy also remains a national mandate, even
with the devolution of extension responsibility to the provinces. Thus formal
mechanisms are needed to ensure accountability in the planning, coordination,
and implementation of extension programs, whether of national or provincial
origin. Four committees or working groups will provide these mechanisms:
(a) The Agricultural Extension Committee (AEC). The Council of
Agricultural Research Policy would appoint a standing Agricultural
Extension Committee to advise it on policy matters regarding: (a)
agricultural extension and training; (b) organization,
coordination, planning, execution, and funding of agricultural
extension services and extension pilot programs and training; and
(c) research-extension-farmer linkages. Committee membership would
include representatives from the DOA, DEA, DAPH, and the Coconut
Cultivation Board;representatives of tea, rubber, cashew, forestry,
and fishery units; and two representatives of the private sector.
Funds would be provided under the project for committee operating
expenditures. During negotiations asreement was reached with GOSL
that the Agricultural Extension Committee with membership.
resoonsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA would be
established and maintained (Rara 6.1 (c). The establishment of the
Agricultural Extension Committee with membershiR. responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit (para 6.2 (a))
(b)  The National Agricultural Extension Working Group (NAEWG).  This
working group would be strengthened to ensure adequate
representation of the private and public sectors and of all
subsectors of agriculture, fisheries, and forests. During
negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL that the NAEWG with
membership. responsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA
would be maintained (Rara 6.1(d)). The working group would act as
a channel for transmitting policy guidelines to the extension
services and provincial councils and for exchanging information
between extension agencies. The working group would continue to
meet every quarter. Funds for operating expenditures would be
provided under the project.
(c)  The Regional Technical Working Groups.  These work-ng groups would
continue to meet before the two main cropping seasons each year to
discuss field problems and research results, plan future research



- 21 -
programs, and decide on extension recommendations. The work of
these groups would be guided by information from three sets of
complementary data: Status Review Reports (para 1.27), diagnostic
team reviews (para 1.28) and the ranked problems identified at
problem census meetings (para 4.8).
(d) The Divisional Coordination Committee. The committee would be the
cornerstone of the organizational structure proposed under the
project. This committee would process the synthesized lists of
ranked farm household problems obtained through problem census
meetings. Problems unrelated to agriculture would be transmitted
to the relevant ministries, through the planning division of the
DS/AGA office, while agriculture related problems would go to the
Divisional Agricultural Committee. Problems that could be handled
immediately by extension agents would be acted upon. The others
would be passed on to the District Preparatory Committee in the
PMOA, which would formulate a priority list of subjects, including
those identified in the problem census, to be considered by the
Provincial Technical Working Group.
B. pivision of Responsibilities.
4.3       At IDA's request the Government of Sri Lanka has submitted
proposals for the division of responsibilities between the center (MADR) and
the provinces (PNOA) on issues relating to the agricultural sector (para
1.21), and between the PMOA and the provincial administration for the
provision of agricultural extension services. Responsibility for extension
services is clearly divided according to: (a) administrative and financial
control, which is assigned to the DS/AGA (MPAPCHA); and (b) techr,ical control,
supervision, guidance, and support which is assigned to Assistant Directors of
Agriculture and Veterinary Surgeons (PMOA). The DS/AGA would maintain the
personnel files of agricultural instructors and livestock development
instructors paying their salaries and other claims, coordinating their work
with that of other related divisional officials and organizations (the DEA,
the Coconut Cultivation Board, and the Cashew Corporation), and approving
their seasonal and monthly work programs for implementation of the divisional
plan. Thia Assistant Director of Agriculture and the Veterinary Surgeons would
offer technical guidance, supervise the work program of the instructors, and
provide training. This arrangement, which provides both technical and
administrative guidance to the agricultural instructors and the livestock
development instructors, is acceptable to IDA (Annex 1, Chart 2 and Annex 8).
As a condition of project effectiveness. responsibilities satisfactorv to IDA
would be in effect with regard to the agriculture sector between the center
(NADR) and the Provincial Councils. and with retard to agriculture extension
between the PMOA and the Provincial Administrations (para 6.2 (b).
C. Implementation
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
4.4       The project would be implemented by the MADR.  Overall
responsibility for project management and implementation would rest with the
Secretary, NADR. Project components and activities would be implemented by



- 22 -
the following agencies: (a) the DOA, DEA, and DAPH for agricultural extension
services; (b) the ABC for human resources development and pilot extension
program; and (c) the DOA for seed policy and plant protection and pesticide
management. At the provincial level, responsibility would rest with the Chief
Secretary.
4.5       Prolect Management Unit.  The PNU would be responsible for day-to-
day implementation and operations of the project and would be assisted by
corresponding units at the provincial level comprising the provincial
Secretary of Agriculture, the provincial Director of Agriculture and the
Deputy Director of Extensiou,. The PHU would perform the following functions:
(a) Handle project funds and allocate them to concerned institutions on
the basis of approved plan and budget provisions.
(b) Prepare master site plan for each institution showing the location
of civil works and other proposed improvements.
(c) Finish designs, cost estimates, and bidding documents for civil
works; evaluate bids; award contracts; and supervise construction.
(d) Procure equipment and vehicles.
(e) Help the AEC award the fellowships.
(f) Maintain separ-ate project accounts and make sure other institutions
also maintain separate accounts.
(g) Review statements of expenditures of different institutions to
ensure authenticity and eligibility, claim reimbursement from IDA,
and review annual status of accounts.
(h) Monitor and evaluate project progress and furnish reports to IDA
(paras 4.23 - 4.27).
During negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL that the PMU with staff.
resRonsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA would be established and
maintained (para 6.1 (e)). As a condition of credit effectiveness, the GOSL
would have (a) established the PMU: (b) appointed the groiect manaer, civil
engineer. and account officer: and (c) employed the architects (para 6.2(c)).
Extension Program
4.6       Farmer-Centered Farming System.  A farmer-centered farming system
approach is proposed to gradually improve the cost-offectlveness of the
extension service. Central to this system is the consideration of farm family
goals, their relation to the adoption of agricultural technology, and the
consequent need for close contact between extension agents and household
members within the village community and on the farm. This extension approach
encourages the participation of farm households in activities and decision-
making that affect their future and emphasizes the close interaction of
various agronomic and livestock subsystems typifying subsistence and
commercial farm operations. Such an approach is locality-specific and depends
upon: (a) the identification and use of existing farmer groups with similar
resources and technological requirements (reference groups) for extension



- 23 -
activities; (b) the use of the problem census technique to identify extension
activities that meet farmers' needs; and (c) applying a holistic approach to
extension (details in Annex 3). The emphasis on groups and agreed-on group
actions makes lt more likely that extension services will benefit farmers than
under the intensive and uniform services provided to all farmers in all areas
under the AEARP.
4.7       Reference Groups.    Techniques have been developed for identifying
reference groups and for obtaining a preliminary notion of production
constralnts and problems as group members perceive them. Rapid rural
appraisal techniquesI1 would be used to identify reference groups since
detailed surveys would be impractical and costly. The benefits of using the
reference group as the contact polnt for extension services are substantial:
(a) Members are at ease with each other and are generally willing to
express their concerns and opinions freely; thls approach avoids
the frequently observed dominance by traditional or official
leaders of larger groups or communities and encourages the
participation of women as household heads or active members of the
agricultural household.
(b) Since members are generally in similar socioeconomic circumstances,
they tend to share the same farming constraints and opportunities,
making a particular mix of technologies relevant to most group
members. Discussion of the applicability of a technology by the
group, with intervention and demonstration by the extension agent
as appropriate, promotes reaching a common conclusion about its
zelevance.
(c) The group is a naturally occurring entity and tends to be cohesive,
so it can reliably enter into agreements to undertake specific,
mutually beneficial activities, including commitments with their
extension agent.
4.8       Problem Census.  The reference group approach is most effective in
technology transfer if interaction with the extension agent is based on a
problem census (usually conducted annually), and a mutually agreed action
program for addressing the constraints identified by the group. The
methodology for conducting problem census meetings is well documented as is
its success.4W  Essentially, the extension agent acts a as facilitator; the
group splits into subgroups of five to ten people, to discuss and rank
problems; the subgroups then provide a carefully considered analysis of the
serious constraints they face in their farming system.5W  Next, the
extension agent and the farmers dlscuss and agree on the factors behind these
IV   Rapid Rural Appraisal Handbooks, No. 1, 1991, International
Institute for Environment and Development, London.
11/  Social Development Series NO 31. Rome 1984. Training for
Agricultural Rural Development 1983, (pp. 27-38).
IW   Farmers are encouraged not to restrict their analysis to cropping
issues, but to cover any factor they consider to be limiting their
productivity.



- 24 -
constraints and ways to alleviate them or on measures that need to be further
tested in the local situation. Aspects that are beyond the domain of
agricultural extension are referred to relevant agencies, with the extension
agent prepared to maximize cooperation and follow-up with these agencies. The
outcome of this process is an agreed on action plan and scheduled
visit/assistance program. The problem census is a completely farmer-centered
approach: any proposed technology or intervention is analyzed according to
benefit-resource cost, the amount of risk involved in using additional
resources (especially in production response and market price), and how well
it meets the expressed concerns of the farmers in the group.
4.9       Each extension agent would be responsible for about 20 to 30 farmer
groups. The extension agent would maintaln a regular schedule of group visits
to ensure that the major problems cited by each group are addressed and
solved. Allowing for routine office duties and programmed divisional and
district meetings as well as meetings with the 20 to 30 farmer groups, an
extension agent would revisit each group no more than once a month, in the
peak of the season. After the outcomes of all problem census meetings in a
district have been classified, district-level staff from the PMOA, DEA, and
the Coconut Cultivation Board, together witl subject matter specialists, would
schedule the problems for handling during the next 12 months. For problems
identified as common to all or most divisions within a district, subject
matter specialists would provide in-service training to ensure that all
extension agents, from all organizations, receive the same advice and
recommendations. No more than two training sessions a month are envisaged.
Problems of higher priority, but of narrower relevance (to one or only a few
divisions) would be followed up by extension agents, after brief consultation
wlth a subject matter specialist, as needed, before returning to the farm
household groups concerned (Annex 3). Problems significant at the district
level would be incorporated into annual in-service training courses until the
farming community indicates that the problem has been solved to its
satisfaction.
4.10      Two issues require special consideration. First, the planning of
regular group meetings must take into account the ongoing commitments of the
livestock development instructor (DAPH), extension officer (DEA), and coconut
development officer (Coconut Cultivation Board) to their clients. If these
commitments are allowed to take precedence over the issues identified by the
farming community to be of major importance, the efforts of extension agents
to gain genuine, open participation of farm family members would be wasted and
integrated extension service would not be achieved. Second, problems
identified during problem census meetings that are not strictly agricultural
in origin--issues of human health and nutrition, the role of women in the
community, education, social welfare or the environment--cannot simply be
transmitted to the appropriate sector ministry. Ad hoc studies would need to
be conducted to ensure that the ministries take action and that the
reliability of extension agents is not compromised (para 4.26). It is the
extension agents that the community will hold accountable for any apparent
inaction since it is they who initiate problem census meetings and establish
the lists of problems.
4.11      The review of problems and the scheduling of programs to resolve
them would be completed by January 31, each year, to ensure that items



- 25 -
requiring funding are included in budget estimates in time to meet Treasury
deadlines. IV
4.12      Holistic Approach.  The holistic approach to extension requires the
coordination of existing physical, financial, and human resources available to
the extension service operating within agriculture and livestock in PMOA, DEA,
and Coconut Cultivation Board. Such an approach implies a need to treat the
productive activities of the whole farm as a system and to view the extension
agent as a general practitioner responsive to the variability in farming
systems within the locality. Where extension is represented in a division by
more than one organization, the extension agent responsible for the major
commodity would have coordinating responsibilities.
4.13      Sunervisign.   The division would be the focal point of extension
activities. Overall supervision of the field extension agents would rest with
the line agencies: Assistant Director of Agriculture, Veterinary Surgeon,
Assistant Regional Manager within the Coconut Cultivation Board, and Assistant
District Director within DEA. This supervision is particularly critical for
the annual round of problem census meetings. Prioritized lists of problems
from each village meeting are categorized by technical areas (agriculture,
health, education, environment), and by their breadth of applicability--to a
village only, to several divisions, or to the whole district. The segment or
district level supervlsors should consolidate these lists for presentation to
the Divisional Coordination Committee and then to the District Preparatory
Committee within the PMOA.
4.14      The extension agent, together with supporting supervisory and
technical staff, would draw up a plan and a schedule for addressing perceived
technical problems and for presenting available technology to the community to
help resolve them. The focus becomes, "Which problems should we work through
with the groups in a particular month so that they come to understand the
applicability of known technology?" rather than "Which technology do we
recommend for particular crops at a particular time?". The program schedule
would be presented to groups or group representatives beginning with the
sequence of agreed problems, the discussion of factors associated with the
problem, and ways of addressing the problems. The group would then discuss
who would undertake a small demonstration trial to test the proposed solutlon,
the extent to which the technology should be adopted, and the requirements for
adoption.
4.15      The principle of programming extension visits would be maintained,
but with less emphasis on purely information transfer, their frequency could
be reduced. Visits for a season would be adjusted to the needs of the program
agreed with the group, based on technologies or actions considered approprlate
for easing constraints. Instead of measuring the extensLon agent's
performance against a standard schedule, supervisors could assess
effectiveness more reliably from the responses of the agent's groups. This
method would increase the accountability of extension agents to their farmer
clients and that of their supervisors as well, whose own assessment would
reflect the performance of extension agents under their supervision. The
IW   The Treasury requires recurrent cost figures by about March 31, and
capital cost items by about April 30.



- 26 -
emphasis on dealing with groups and obtaining agreed group action would also
require fewer extension agents to reach the same number of farmers.
4.16      Mass Media. The DOA, DAPH, and DEA would use private contract
services for about 65X of the aggregate cost of contracts for project's mass
media requirements. During negotiations agreement to this effect was reached
with GOSL (para 6.1(f)). To be effective mass media must reach a broad
segment of its target audience and that audience must be convinced that the
material is relevant to its circumstances. An extension service with a
farmer-centered emphasis in technology development and transfer and programmed
interaction with all types of farmers should enable the design of mass media
programs that are relevant to the situation of the clientele. The potential
impact of mass media programs is also increased as the media becomes more
localized.
4.17      Method Demonstrations and Field Days.  Demonstrations and field
days are important since the extension message depends to a large extent on
the client seeing how the technique works. The reference group approach and
the agreed on program of interaction with members would facilitate the design
of small demonstrations or test plots to suit local requirements and concerns
and that would become part of the action plan agreed on with the group.
Because the group's active decision-making about establishment of the plot,
groups are more likely to view the plot and its output as their own. The
number, occurrence, and distribution of demonstrations or field days would
not be determined before project inception but would be established according
to the issues identified during problem census meetings, the solutions that
are best demonstrated In the field, and the results of adaptive research work.
4.18      Training.  The AEC vould coordinate physical and human training
resources, facilitles, and programs, drawn from national and provincial
training institutions. The AEC would also approve fellowships. All
fellowships and training opportunities would be advertised, and awards would
be based on written recommendations from the implementing agencies. Local
training would be approved by the respective institution. The AEC would
prepare and furnish to IDA by March 31, 1993, a preliminary human resources
development plan (foreign training) for review and comment. During
negotiations agreement to this effect was reached with GOSL (nara 6.1 (g)).
4.19      The reference group/problem census system could be implemented only
at the rate at which staff could be trained. This training would be developed
by the internationally recruited extension specialist (para 4.29), in
cooperation with senior extension officers of the PNOA, DEA, and Coconut
Cultivation Board, who would also set the related monitorable criteria. Early
experience with the problem census and discussions with the reference group
about constraints and possible solutions would provide case study material for
further training.
4.20      At the inception of the project, subject matter specialists would
be involved in training extension agents in problem census techniques.
Afterward, each specialist would be based in a specific district. It is
anticipated that at least 50% of the specialist's working time would be spent
in the field, providing an essential link between extension and research
officers stationed in Regional Research Centers, offering subject matter
support and field training to extension officers, assisting in field



- 27 -
demonstrations of research findings, and visiting the village community with
extenslon officers.
4.21      Private Sector Pilot Extension Program.  Under the project, the AEC
would prepare a plan of action for the introduction of the pllot program.
Funds would be provided under the project for experienced professional
consultants (three person-months of expatriate technical assistance and six
person-months of local technical assistance) and for operating expenditures to
assLst the AEC in these tasks. A plan of action, satisfactory to IDA, would
be provided by June 30, 1993. It would be implemented under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA including, inter alia, provision relating to contribution
by the beneficiaries of the extension services rendered by private sector
entities under such program, such contribution to gradually increase over a
period of three years to a level of at least 20X of the cost of such services.
During negotiations agreements to this effect were obtained from GOSL (2ara
6.1 (h)).
Extension Action Plan
4.22      Durin2 negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL on a plan of
action for imnrovima agricultural extension services. including a timetable.
satisfactorX to IDA (Table 4.1). It was also agreed that the plan would be
nDlemented in accordance with such timetable (pta  6.1 Mi).
Table 4.1  EXTENSION ACTION PLAN
ELEMENT                        ACTION                        DATE
Extension           About 300 Grama Niladharis with two-     By June 30,
coverage            year diploma in agriculture would be     1993
transferred from MPAPCHA to Provincial
Councils and appointed as agricultural
instructors.
Extension agent positions would be re-   By December
allocated in each province according     31, 1992
to a geographical distribution
governed by equitable work loads.
Extension           Extension agents would be used           Immediate
actlvities          exclusively for field-level
agricultural extension work.
Subject matter specialists would be      By June 30,
placed appropriately to service the      1993
earmarked divlsions.
Training            The DOA, DEA, and DAPH would provide     Completed by
appropriate training to their            June 30, 1993
extension agents so that basic issues
could be handled by all extension
agents.



- 28 -
Incremental         Incremental specialist staff would be    20X per year
specialist staff   recruited for the Plant Protection and   commencing
Seed Certification and the Registrar      January 1994
of Pesticides subdivisions of the DOA.
MADR\Coconut        A memorandum of understanding between    By March 31,
Cultivation Board  MADR and Coconut Cultivation Board          1993
responsibilities    defining responsibilities and linkages
in extension and related training
activities would be prepared by the
AEC and transmitted to IDA for review.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.23      Monitoring.  The PMU would be responsible for monitoring physical
execution of the project.
4.24      PHU staff would monitor physical activities in the field according
to a regular action program. Each implementing agency would send the
following reports to the PMU:
(a)  Annual work program indicating proposed targets for staffing, civil
vorks, equipment, and training by March 15.
(b)  Quarterly physical progress reports on staffing, civil works,
equipment, and training.
(c)  Monthly expenditure reports in a format prescribed by the PMU.
4.25      The PHU would furnish to IDA, in an agreed format, a semi-annual
progress report (July and January) on the physical implementation of the
project. The PMU would also by June 30, 1993 and by each June 30 thereafter,
furnish to IDA for comments, a program of activities related to the project
for the following year. During negotiations agreement to this effect was
reached with GOSL (Rara 6.1 (JY.
4.26      Evaluation.  The impact of project components would be evaluated
through an annual review mechanism established under the project, that
mechanism to include an annual review by concerned agencies, including a
review at the decision-making level. The agencies would be provided with
computing facilities and operating funds in accordance with the increased
workload. Ad hoc studies would also be conducted on particular topics as the
need arises. Summary findings would be produced and circulated within about
one month of study completion so that the findings can serve as a source of
feedback and a management tool.
4.27      The PMU would commission a mid-term review of all activities funded
under the project. The focus of the review should be to explicitly reexamine
the project as appraised, and consider any mid-course corrections needed to
bring the project back on track. This review should be the main opportunity
for project restructuring. The review would be carried out by each province
jointly with the MADR no later than June 30, 1995, and the findings discussed
with IDA by September 30, 1995. The review would assess progress in the



- 29 -
physical Lmplemontatlon of the project, and in the achievements of the
institutional objectives in particular with respect to: (a) the adequacy of
division of responsibilities between the center (NADR) and the provinces
(PNOA) on issues relating to the agricultural sector, and between the PNOA and
the provincial administration for the provision of agricultural extension
services; (b) the adequacy of division of responsibilities between the MADR
and the Coconut Cultivation Board; (c) the adequacy of staff for satisfactory
implementation of the project; (d) extension performance and its quality;
(e) the progress of the Private Sector Pilot Extension Program; (f) the
effectiveness of the Seed Policy including plant quarantine regulations; and
(g) the timely and appropriate financing of extension agencies' approved
activities. During neoQtiations aureement was reached with GOSL that a
comprehensivp mid-term review would be conducted with IDA by June 30. 1995
(para 6.1 (1A.
E. Project Supervision Plan
4.28      Table 4.2 details the mix of specialists and the frequency and
duration of missions likely to be needed to ensure adequate project
supervision.
Table 4.2 Mix of Specialists and Estimated Frequency and Duration of Missions
Mission    Time          S2ecialty (Duration in weeks)        Total
No.   Mo dX=          A- E£   Inst   6    ZZ  Env    Staff   Weeks
la        9/92         1    1      1         1   -        4         4
2        12/92          1    -     1    1    -   -         3        8
3         5/93          1    1     -         -   -         2        6
4        11/93          1    -     1         -   -         2        4
5         5/94          1    1     -         -   -         2        6
6        11/94          1    -     -         -   -         1        3
7b        5/95         1    1      1         1   1         5       10
8        11/95          1    -     -         -   -         1        3
9         5/96          1    1     -         -   -         2        5
10        11/96          1    -     1         -   -         2        5
11         5/97          1    1     -         -   -         2        6
12        11/97          1    -     1         -   -         2        5
13         5/98          1    1     -         -   -         2        5
140       11/98        a1   _  _            -  __          X         3
14    7     6    1    2   1        31       73
Note   A - Agriculturalist                    ES - Extension specialist
PR  - Procurement specialist           SS - Seed speclalist
Inst.- Institution specialist          ENV - Envlronmental specialist
a. - Project launching seminar
b. - Nid-term review mission
c. - Final review mission and initiatLon of PCR process



- 30 -
The supervision missions would include an institutional specialist to ensure
that appropriate arrangements are being made to implement the formal
coordination mechanisms (para 4.2), following the recent devolution of
authority to the provinces (para 1.21).
F. Technical Assistance
4.29      Project implementation support would include 18 person-months  of
highly specialized internationally recruited consultants (organizational
development specialist, 6 person-months; extension specialist, 6 person-
months; extension/sociologist, 3 person-months; and seed specialist, 3 person
months). The organizational specialist would ensure that mechanisms are in
place for effective coordination (para 4.2). The extension specialist would
train extension agents in technique for working with reference groups and
problem census technique (paras 4.7, 4.8 and Annex 3). The
extension/sociologist would assist the Agriculture Extension Committee to
develop, implement, and monitor the pilot extension program (paras 2.11 and
4.21 and Annex 8). The seed specialist would assist DOA to draft the seed
legislation (para 2.15). During negotiations agreements were reached with
GOSL that the extension specialist and the organizational development
aRecialist would be employed by December 31. 1992 (para 6.1 (lu.
C. Environmental Impact
4.30      No significant negative environmental impact is anticipated. The
definition of problems as they are perceived by the community is a key element
ln the extension approach supported by the project. In this bottom-up
process, identification of problems and needs and basic planning would
originate at the village level as the basis for extension activities that
would safeguard the equilibrium of agro-systems and minimize health hazards.
There would be close liaison with the adaptive/on-farm research programs
supported by ARP. The component for strengthening the capacity of the Seed
Certification Service and Plant Protection subdivision to control pesticides
would streamline pesticide regulatory functions. It would also increase the
competence of pesticide dealers and applicators in using pesticides safely
thereby reducing misuse and overuse, which cause environmental damage, reduced
effectiveness, heavy residues in harvested crops, and resistance problems and
poisonings accidents. Project-funded training activities would cover
sustainable production issues and biomass fuel conservation measures. To
ensure strong linkages between environmental problems identified in the Sri
Lanka Environmental Action Plan and the job of the extension service, specific
training in environmental planning and protection would also be included in
the personnel development plan submitted by the AEC.



- 31 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Gen2ral
5.1       Previous IDA investments in agricultural extension have shown that
attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
problematic. Distinguishing the benefits due to project activitles from those
due to additional purchased inputs and other factors is not possible. In
practice, it is a combination of factors that brings about the desired
benefits, with extension services as the catalyst. Therefore, no attempt has
been made to quantify the economic rate of return ex ante.
B. Project Benefits
5.2       The project would help sustain and improve farmers' incomes and
develop a more streamlined, cost effective and client-oriented extension
service. The project would also help the central government explore the
possibilities of gradually divesting itself of extension activities through a
prLvate sector pilot extension program. Through the establishment of a
vational seed policy the project would contribute to privatization of the seed
industry, thereby improving farmers' access to a complete range of imported
improved crop varieties. The project would also help reduce the misuse and
overuse of pesticides by improving pesticide legislation and registration,
strengthening enforcement, and educating growers and dealers about safe
pesticides use.
5.3       Cost Effectiveness.  To respond efficiently to farmers' needs for
extension services within the framework of the new farmer-centered, farming
system approach to be introduced under the project, particularly with respect
to some of the never high value export crops, the extension service must be
equipped with a high calibre staff, backed up with adequate transport and mass
media communication facilities and relevant messages from the research system.
With up to 85X of expenditures on extension in recent years going for
personnel costs, less than 5X allocated for travelling expenses and virtually
no resources for mass media communications with which to contact Sri Lanka's
relatively highly educated farming population, the existing extension service
has been handicapped by too many under-qualified staff and a lack of access to
farmers. The proposed project would better identify extension activities to
meet farmers' needs, and restore the balance between personnel related
expenditures and operational support required to make the extension system
cost effective in the Sri Lankan context through: (a) the identification and
use of existing farmer groups with similar resources and technological
requirements and the use of the problem census technique; and (b) improved
training for a smaller, but better qualified cadre of extension agents, an
addltional operating cost support and the introduction of mass media
communications,
C. Prolect RLsks
5.4       The project faces two main risks.  First, coordination of
physical, financial, and human resources in agricultural extension services
may be strained by the rapid devolution of authority to the provinces.



- 32 -
Pragmatic organizational arrangements have been proposed under the project to
safeguard against this risk, including establishment of the Agricultural
Extension Committee and the Project Coordination Committee, and the
strengthening of the National Agriculture Extension Working Group. Second,
there may be some delay in getting all. the provinces adequately staffed to
undertake all project-related tasks assigned to them. To minimize this risk,
the level of provincial support would be reviewed each year by the PMU and IDA
(para 4.25), and steps would be taken to bring this support up to the
appropriate level.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       Agreements have been reached with GOSL that:
(a) A national seed policy, satisfactory to IDA, would be formulated by
June 30, 1993, and measures satisfactory to IDA would be adopted to
implement such policy by June 30, 1994 (para 2.15).
(b) A Project Coordination Committee with membership, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to IDA would be established by December
31, 1992 and maintained thereafter (para 4.1).
(c) The Agricultural Extension Committee with membership,
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA, would be
established and maintained (para 4.2 (a)).
(d) The National Agricultural Extension Working Group with membership,
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA would be
maintained (para 4.2 (b)).
(e) The PMU with staff, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to
IDA, would be established and maintained (para 4.5).
(f) The DOA, DAPH, and DEA would use private contract services for
about 65X of the aggregate cost of contracts for the project's mass
media requirements (para 4.16).
(g) A preliminary human resources development plan for agricultural
extension would be submitted to IDA for review and comments by
March 31, 1993 (para 4.18).
(h) A plan of action for the introduction of the private sector pilot
extension program, satisfactory to IDA, would be submitted by June
30, 1993. It would be implemented under arrangements satisfactory
to IDA including, inter alia, provision relating to contribution by
the beneficiaries of the extension services rendered by private
sector entities under such program, such contribution to gradually
increase over a period of three years to a level of at least 20X of
the cost of such services (para 4.21).
(i) A plan of action including a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for
improving agricultural extension services, would be formulated, and
implemented in accordance with such timetable (para 4.22).



- 33 -
(j) A program of activlties related to the project for the following
year would be submitted to IDA for comments by June 30, 1993, and
by each June 30, thereafter (para 4.25).
(k) A comprehensive mid-term review would be conducted with IDA by June
30, 1995 (para 4.27).
(1) The extension specialist and the organizational development
specialist would be appointed by December 31, 1992 (para 4.29).
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) The Agricultural Extension Committee with membership,
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to IDA, has been
established (para 4.2 (a)).
(b) Responsibilities satisfactory to IDA are in effect with regard to
the agriculture sector between the center (MADR) and the Provincial
Councils, and with regard to agricultural extension between the
PMOA and the Provincial Administrations (para 4.3).
(c) The PMU has been established, the project manager, civil engineer,
and account officer of the PMU have been appointed; and the
architects have been employed (pera 4.5).
6.3       Disbursement against expenditures in the northern and eastern
provinces would be conditional upon completion of an on-site appraisal
satisfactory to IDA of all relevant parts of the project, and formulation of
implementation arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para 2.3).
6.4       With the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 10.5 million (US$14.34 million equivalent) on
standard terms, with a maturity of 40 years. The Borrower would be the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 34 -               ANNEX 1
Chart 1
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iN           ,:4 a w 
.~~~~~ i                             Ii >
k  w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------
| ;d    W X    ' ~~~IJ F' iii
U!  I iPX
I



SRi LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Within the Province
Over                     P
DkecUo                                                                              __
Contro
09=                 Direct"- Dtctor
XL                   ConlW               AP&H            AgdcAulue
;   ..11.     11 .    ...    ...   ... .... ..      ..     ..    .. .. .. .. .. .. .
Divisional    j..i                                      C                                   E   
Swponf  .      ~VS              AGR             ReinlRegbnl                          Dtwc             DSfAGA       .w
Co-orlinator                                           Ma                Manager            Offcer:
2
Z,                                              - -1 -I- -  -   -1 i   - - -- D- --    :                  --
DIvIsond                               Al             Coou                                 EA
Dev Officer ' !                      Officer
-               .._. . .- _  ..._..-...-.
!                                'Farring Population
Adminira narca Co
TS gco SupeAsn guklance and uffo                                                                                                             X
cakWSO269E



SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
Departnent of AgricuRure
Technology Transfer Division
Education, Trainhg and Inhonnation Sectons
____________ DDDa                                                       I
Sdioolci       sdwol c        Sdhool c           AuiVlua        Fan M&
i~~~7~~ThzI~~~lY Fransfr 
=Wrlcuft u.                                          , AlleAI I WC  TaCenter
SS   ~~~~~~"I              I EAblbnv     Enfom  I   B0k
Iu             I                   I                                        W-ar
ISTIIRTC da     ISWoRTC           ISTVRTC lb)
AWele   Pe Ganmnnon"       :     Candunbtoe
I          I              i                   I                                          nl
tocflrn         Inva           easter           Noalm Cet      NOW
ISTURTCla      ISTVTC              ISTURTC           ML Na I
am4cd         owm"w          Babwetam          NMOVPnnr        Ntonh  tWese
|               I £  T~~~~W C   Il  I   S U T      STVR CI        r   I T/ T            I 
I      E l    _ I             I              I              I                                            aI  I  I
,_ Suern          Nodhlemn         Uva          Weslemn         Cent-i       NoithCentral  NoaUmWester       Easern      S      _bsprsw
DATC (c)          DAg        |                  [       11 X TC DAI  DADTC DAT  DATC |AT                    |A   DAK
WiKa lnochoal  I    9bIt    Ii         Walpa   KI                     NlWadyaIIImkamKIe
LTa*baw       lOddusudani   SHoragannyL2weL
()ISTURTC: k  FS Takiq tesTfedglW TrgktCerdew"
OATC: 0d Agdcu1tun Trang Centers. 
Pdestrocdn: operanal
Destroye



SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
Department of Export Agriculture
Ifrecfr
|Resha     |                                         |Dlt  |               §             | N 
Assr  t                        Aseia reor         Assistat DreClDr        Extesiotnt.lec
Direcbr     AssMmt DiroMr           Subskly.           coono~~~~~~~~~lantPoetion.
(MClr  )                        EcPOo oslc                        Education &
Evaluat nMULftn      PRaN=M;Wr.           T=aWn*                           a3      
Gammaduwa~~~~~~~~~~~~ I(Ina                                  IPbnn-
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U _"  Kunoa
bmbe   (Car)    C;A
Fam &~ ~ ~~~~~~
Sdd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI
D-sbic Direcbr  Asas1W Oko
(14)  Publicity.s



SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
Deparbment of Animal Production and Health
Directo|s Diraers                                   D|ecWms
&1_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Affca   eta  I                                    kietm SIe
(lonltodng)                         AmAe AeMlaal
Dl Drseaseecbrs                                                              olesmaR
Pronwom                         Trawm troControl
Traising SHuoan: AyimLC  anWr P
eAnuraudiapura (NCP)   wee wP)   *GaUnura        S'GSama)
_9Bud 1asa
-    Kuel



SRI LANKA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
State Ministry ot Coconut Industries and Crop DiversIficatIon          |    U    d
Stme Ltriwy Of*1 
*~~~~~~~4m I S9."sbYof a
Oebp_"
I~ ~ ~ ~~I
coco0n "I   I    I -o
PubficHy                          ~~~~~~~~~~AssistL Repnal Mgr.  A   Regional LMgr.
Otfficer                                           A bgraln               Extnso
RUm                                                                  CocmtDevk_w
ProWil.l                                                                   Oftier (168)
I      
ICoconul       I  bl
Cak_OC os F~



- 40 -
Table 1
SECOND AGRICUL ERl RTEN SION PROJECT
STAFFING      FOR  XTENS ION
DISTRIBUTION Of DOA EXTES ION AGENT  BY LOCATION
LOCATION                  -NS       SO1            All/      GUW   TOTAL
DlstrietsV                 68EV      123          4101V     265       866
HE Provinces
(7 districts)                       55           66        41       162
Inter-provlncial
projects (Ampara)                   13           25        26        64
Headquarters                           8           19         0        27
TOTAL                68                     19 *IV WJLin
Source: Technology Tranufew DlvLsLon, DOA
S/ Subject Matter Offlcer.
2V Agrlcultural Instructors employed by the Techonlogy Transfer
DivsLsLon, DOA.
°V  Grams Niladarl (Two-year Diploma of Agriculture graduates only).
hi Seventeen dLstrLcts.  (North East ProvLnce not lncluded).
3/ Calculated on the basLs of four 1S(S (on average) In each of 17
DLstrLets. The basic compoaLtLon shall be: farm women (1), rlce (1)
and plant protectlon (1). Obvlously, land use shall determine the
subject matter emphasis of the fourth posLtLon: not all dLstricts
emphaslsLng the same comodLtLes.
IV Details In Annex 2 Table 2.
Z°  Calculated on 501 fleld staff plus 19 AIs In TTD Headquarters.
8V 332 Oraka NladarL, whiLch the NADR has requested to be released from
present duties by the MPAPCHA and appoLnted as AIs. Of these, 265
should be avaLlable for partLeLpatLon In the project.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
S]ZhVU PL/UI PCR UISICII
___^-~~~EEM1 FROMWT
cunum  A~TUAL mm im ANDrSTmIDc
lzeu             DA.lotit  Inmtuotor
Currenet Adtioal   Total Ad/
North Conral     Aradhapuza      aS       23       As   A
North Western    Puttalm         17       16       33   3
YAunegala       52       86      128   7
Weatein          Colobo           13        7      20   2
g0.ba           26       33       59   A
Kalutara        20       22       42   3
Cumtral          Kandy            40      10       50   5
"atale          21       21       42
3kwaxa BIUy&    19       22       41   3
Ubazenswa        Resalle         16       19       35   3
Ratnepura       26        0       37   3
Southern         Gallo           83        10      AS   A
Hllntota         7       12       19   4
atazre          10       20       39   A
ulv              Badulla         25       11       36   2
onaresala       13       20       33   2
luter-pzaviucial    Polounazuwa   a        14      22
Aiureapura      10       23       33
Kaudy            A        a       12
3mbuatota        8       10      is
MNnaragala       6       16      2Z
TOZiL                            410      412     822w  so
North East Province not Included.  On-site appraisal by an IDA
mission and review of arrangements proposed for implementation would
be a condition of disbursement agalnst expenditures for operation In
North East Province.
The Agricultural Officer (AO) is also known as the Segment Assistant
Director of Agriculture (Segment ADA).
I An extension service based solely on Als would require 822 to
operationalisx that servLce ln 17 distrLets, including Polannaruwa
Inter-provlncial project, allowing for about 1,200 farm households
per Al. These households would generate some 20 to 30 contact farmer
groups, the number whLch an extensLon agent can conservatively handle
both for conductiug the problem census and for more regular famer
discussion and problem solving meetlngs. There are currently 798
Extension Agents available IncludinF ROs, A as and ON. (Table 1);
however, It is conceivable that there are divlstons which normally
would be covered by DEA, DAPM or CCb and no additional recruitment
would be required.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
FARMING SYSTEM APPROACH TO EXTENSION
PHILOSOH
1.        Generally, technology transfer through the T&V system set up under the
AEARP relled on a top-down approach to extension. As a consequence, research was
not normally shaped by communlty consultation, and farmers dld not always view
the subsequent recommendations as relevant to their operations. In contrast, a
farming-system approach to extension emphasizes the close interaction of the
various agronomic and livestock subsystems typifying subsistence and commercial
farm operations.
2.        Central to the farming-system component of the farmer-centered farming
system approach to extension is a consideration of farm family goals and how they
affect adoption of agricultural technology. There is a consequent need for
extension agents to have close and frequent contact with farm household members
vithin the village community and on their farms.
3.        The extension service thus needs to integrate the extension activities
required to implement national agricultural policy with those required to solve
the problems or capitalize on the opportunities identified by the farming
community - both a top-down and a bottom-up approach.
4.        Such an approach is locality-specific in that It is concerned with
technologies relevant to particular groups of farmers.  For that reason the
farming-system approach depends upon identifying and involving contact farmer
groups rather than individual farmers as active participants in adaptive research
and extension. It is also a holistic approach to extension:
(a) The productive activities of the whole farm are treated as a system.
(b) The extension agent is more a general practitioner rather than a
commodity-specific expert, and so ls more responsive to variability
ln farming systems.
(c) Extension goals have a wide reach that encompasses all organizations
vith a role in extension.
(d) Adaptive research actlvities and extension are closely linked.
(e) The collective and individual needs of farm family members are
considered, rather than only those of the farmer as the traditional
household head.
5.        This  farmer-centered  approach  to  extension  is  essentially  an
educational process by which farm family members are guided in the achievement
of their goals by extension agents, who help household members develop their
abilities to identify, analyze, and solve problems. For an extension service to



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
be effective using this approach, several interrelated and interdependent
elements are important.
(a) Farmer groups must be the contact points in the village community.
(b) By working with these groups, the extension agent can encourage their
participation and involvement so that they achieve consensus and take
action on matters of concern to farm families.
(c) The problem census technique is used to actively involve farmers in
identifying and ranking their problems.
(d) To guide farmer groups to identify and rank their problems, the
extension agent needs intensive training in the problem census
technique and its underlying behavioral principles, and the
development and reinforcement of related diagnostic and problem-
solving skills.
(e) The problem census technique ensures accountability of farmers, who
share in decisions about problems and their relative importance, and
the accountability of extension workers who use the problem census
data in their local extension program.
(f) Problem census data are integrated and coordinated from divisional to
provincial levels, and they form the basis for agricultural extension
and research objectives, and for planning allied operational programs
on a seasonal and annual basis to achieve these objectives.
(g) Physical, financial, and human resources available to the extension
service operating within agriculture and livestock (in PMOA, DEA, and
Coconut Cultivation Board) need to be coordinated, an effort that must
extend to the office of the DS/AGA, and its coordination function.
(h) Annual problem census meetings should be initiated no later than
January 1 each year to allow sufficient time for information to be
synthesized and activities included in budget submissions. National
budget submissions are normally due by March 31 for recurrent costs
and by April 30 for capital equipment. Provincial submissions are
normally due by the end of November.
PROBLEM CENSUS TRAINING PROCEDURES AND SCHEDULE
6.        Subject matter specialist and Agricultural Officer Vorkshops.  The
Internationally recruited en'tension specialist should hold a workshop in each of
the seven provinces, to explain and explore the problem census technique. The
Provincial Director, Assistant Directors of Agriculture, and all subject matter
specialLsts and Agricultural Officer should attend.   Grama Niladaris and
Divislonal Secretaries also should attend. The problem census technique would
be used by the subject matter specialists and Agricultural Officer to list and
rank their perceived problems in being extension trainers. This vorkshop also
would ezpose them to the underlying concepts and process of the problem census.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
7.        All participants in each workshop should discuss the details of the
procedures applied to synthesize ranked lists of problems from all village- level
problem census meetings for dlscusslon and presentation at the district level.
S.        Subject Matter Officer and Eztension Agent WorkshoRs.  The extension
specLalist should hold a workshop ln each of the seven provlnces for all subject
matter specialLsts, Agrlcultural Offlcer, and subject matter offlcers and
eztendion agents. Subject matter speclallsts and Agrlcultural Offlcer should
have observer status only. The problem census technique would be used to allow
subject matter offlcer and extensLon agent to explore thelr ldeas about their
potentlal role and responaLbilitLes ln collecting data and ranklng problems
identified by farm households at problem census meetings.  The workshop also
would expose participants to the underlying concepts and process of the problem
census.
9.        All partLclpants in each workshop should discuss the details of the
procedures applled to syntheslie ranked lists of problems from all village-level
problem census meetings for presentation and discussion initially at the
divLsional agrlcultural committee.
10.       Training the Trainers. After the provincial workshops, the extension
specLalLst should traln all subject matter speclalists, AgrLcultural Officor in
each dLstrict before moving on to the next provlnce. A sample schedule for this
trainig is provlded below. One to four subject matter specialist would need to
be trained ln each province. The same training module would be used in each
province, commencing with a problem census demonstration, moving on to the
trainLng of extension trainers, and concluding with an evaluation of the training
by the extensLon trainers.
11.       A brief summary of the itlnerary of the extension speciallst follows:
Week           Activlty
1            Introduction to Srl Lanka.  Meeting with Technology
Transfer Division  staff  in  DOA.   Preparation  of
itinerary.
2            Province   1:   workshops   for   subject   matter
speclallsts/Agricultural Officer and subject matter
offLcers/extension agents.
3            Trainlng of subject matter specialists ln problem
census technique and the processing of problems from
seven vlllages.  All workshops must be in vlllages
selected in each provlnce.
4            Evaluation of subject matter specialists  training
Agricultural Officer in the problem census and
processlng data. All workshops must be in vlllages
selected ln each provlnce.
5-22         Proavlnce 2 to Province 7: repeat weeks 2-4 above, in
blocks of 3 weeks per province.



- 45 -
ANNES 3
Page 4 of 5
23-24         Meetings with extension trainers in each of the 16
districts and in the interprovincial project areas of
the seven provinces to evaluate each extension
trainer's application of the problem census technique
*nd selected extension agents' application of the
problem census, as well as their ability to work with
farm household groups.    Demonstrating of how  to
organize problem census information from all village
meetings to form a basic plan.
25-26         During  the  meetings  with  extension  trainers  the
*etension   specialist   should   collect   detailed
liformation for preparation of a field manual. The
Mnual would include basic principles of group
dynamics, the steps involved in the problem census
technique, and detailed guidelines based on the
experiences of the extension specialist and extension
trainers. The extension specialist and subject matter
specialists should prepare a draft field manual for
conducting a problem census.   The draft would be
circulated to Agricultural Officer and field extension
agents for comment and then returned to the subject
matter specialist for final editing.
12.       After  training,  each  Agricultural  Officer  and  subject  matter
specialist would begin to train about 20 subject matter officers/extension
agents. All 56 Agricultural Officers and 18 subject matter specialists should
serve as extension trainers, which would give a trainee to trainer ratio of about
20 to 1. It is also proposed that any available subject matter specialists from
the DEA, DAPH, and Coconut Cultivation Board and any senior extension personnel
from these same organizations and the DOA also provide training. Problem census
training would enable subject matter specialists stationed at Regional Training
Institutes to work with extension officers at the village level for a significant
period of time.
13.       At the end of six person-months, the extension specialist will have
trained extension agents in the following:
(a) principles of identifying and working with small groups;
(b) using the problem census technique;
(c) collating and ordering ranked lists of problems;
(d) refining the procedures by which each District Agricultural Working
Group proeosses this information and prepares the village-level
extension plans for consideration by the Provincial Technical Working
Group.



- 46 -
Pag. 5 of 5
14.       Outcome of Problem Census Neetinas.  After the problem census meeting
with a village group, the participant-ranked listing of problems can be used as
the basia of future farmer-centered problem solving meetlngs.  Problems that
could be solved by immediate extension inltiatives would be grouped together lnto
annual (and perhaps seasonal) extension objectives and priorities, based on farm
household needs, thus defining a large part of each extension agent's annual work
program. The agent would then determine the approprlateness of various extensLon
activitles -- meetings, fleld days and demonstrations, electronic and print media
--and plan the appropriate medla mix.  Other problems would be channeled to
Regional Research Centers to form part of the next season's adaptlve research
program. Such topLes lend themselves to contract research. Still other would
be channeled to RegLonal Research Centers and constltute part of each research
center's annual research program.
15.       Not all problems listed by farm households will be related to
agriculture. Some might concern human health and nutrition, educatlon, rural
development, or social welfare, to name a few.   This information would be
processed by extension agents with the assistance of Grama Nlladarls, who would
convey the information to Dlvisional Secretarles; as provincial coordlnators,
they would then pass it on to the appropriate ministry. This flow of information
between ministries helps to develop more formal coordination mechanlsms between
them and so contributes to the planning and development program of each province.
16.       OngoLnE Farmer Group Meetin8s.  Having established informal farmer
groups in each village, the subject matter officers/extension agents should
continue to use the groups as effective and highly motivated human resources.
How often the group will meet and for what purpose can be mutually decided. Some
possibilities:
(a) To serve as a source of market intelligence, providing a clearing
house for crop and farm information.
(b) To monitor the progress of their prioritized 1Lst of problems as it
makes its way into the annual plan for extension activities. This
ensures the accountabllity of the extension agent and the extension
organization.
(c) To advise subject matter officer, extension agents, and research
officers working on adaptive research of the most suitable sites for
demonstration or applied research trials, and to arrange field days,
farm tours, and the like.
17.       The problem  census  technlque  enables  extension programs  to be
sustained beyond the llfe of the project because it depends on the involement
of the farm households rather than on a sLgnificant increase in the civil service
bureaucracy. Farmer participation also helps to ensure the accountability of
field extension agents and those higher in the hierarchy.



- 47 -
RISAM
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
HUNAI RESOURCES DIVELOPIENT
Person Nonths
D3ZRPT                                         LONG TERM  *       SHORTTERM
Agrlc. Icon. and Plalnnig Dlvislon                    96              30
Technology Trans.                                    576             140
Agri. Research Div.                                  192              30
Control of Pesticides                                 58              16
Dept. of Export Agriculture                           96              30
Dept of Animal Pro. & Health                          48              24
Seed Certification                                   120              20
Plant Protection                                      72              20
TOTAL P/N                                1258              310
* For PhD split program only; fifty percent of the long term taining in the Asia
Region.



-48 -                                                              ANNEX 5
wd WIrlStet extlen PsoJion                                         Page  1  of  16
Table 1. DO. o  wrgetturo * TeOnsl   True. Sivielon- SAtenlon
Onttlttd Co t T  to
_|mit                  Un{t Cost                                so" Co 
unit   199   1       1WS 96-96  Tatat    1993           1993       199       1995      199        19?       1996      Total
.............. .....................  ......   ........................ ... .. *. ....... . ..   . *@wzo..................
1. IWVSSTRIUT COSTS
a. civil llork
Staff QArtora Qr.iv-Pro -cs Me.         0      5     2      0      r        7?6       0.00   3919.69   1567.96        0.00      0.00      0.00   5487.
stoff Owrts ar.1tl-Pr@   No.            0      *     a      0      r        5s0       O.-O    2751.51   1100.60       0.00      0.00      O.OO   rsu2.
Fi trlg. Or.-.Oearws       No.          0      1     0      0      1        245       0.00    24.60        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    244.60
Architects to" 4l No.                  *0.00 6*6.78    20.69                                                          0.00      0.00      0.00 9o.47
0.00  7r600.99   2932.25       0.00      0.00      0.00  10533.23
CamorafACCoOeioe - PRO                 17      0      0     0    I?          39      661.79      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    661.79
Portable Projector         llo.         0    I7       0     0    I?          11       0.00     178.66      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    178.66
Bnic flsid Lab-Olat.                    0    1f       0     0    17         tOS       0.00    17686.63     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   I6S.63
Sub-Tm                                                                              j661.79   1967.49       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00  2z9.28
C. Trainlint oipent 43
Refri W store (6.5)        No.          I      0      0     0      I         26       26.30      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      26.30
Battle Sasler                           1      0     0      0      I          5       5.26       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       S.Z6
Potytn   ,001.4                         I      0     0      0      1          2       2.10       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       2.10
Olenusr                                 I      0      0     0      1          1        1.05      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.05
Sticers-VIftabte                        1      0      0     0      1         53      52.61       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      12.61
Table Balance                           I      0      0     0      1        105      105.21      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    105.21
aChcatl SBlauce                         2      0      0     0      a          1       2.10       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       2.10
Ref rtomterRlt 60.-0                    1      0      0     0      1         48       48.40      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      48.40
Thermomter RO- 0S330                    1      0     0      0      1        105      105.21      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    105.21
Kidul Mator                              1     0      0     0      1         53      52.61       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      52.61
NIni*-loc. Ornder                        1     0      0     0      I         53       52.61      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.61
8?&OWN                                                                              453.47       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00    453.47
O. Office Cqulpant/Lt4real
Furniture.Oatr.                         a      a      1     0    17          53     420.65    420.65      52.61       0.00      0.00      0.00    694.31
fen mchineProv.                        r      0     0      a      7         63 a     1.90       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    441.90
fax Nechineh It.                        I      0      0     0      1         63      63.13       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      63.13
Sc        (Noart. 1)                    1      0      0     0      1             66t  6.39       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      66.39
COat r (Pro. 7; Not. I)                 a      0      0     0      a        105    981.71        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   961.71
Pield dawnat. ajWpies 4v.              17    17T        17 I    102          63    10o5.1    1073.1    1073.1    1073.16       n. 1073.16 0316   639.05
d299.15                                                                                                                      1073.18   107t.r1    8748.48
I. Vehitlee
-- af r Ca  , a C Pro.     so.          4      3      0     0      7        6U2    3366.82   2525.12        0.00      P.00      0.00      0.00  S5I.94
PaegrC Core -   t.         No.          2      0      0     0      2        6"2    166.41        0.00       0o.o      0.00      0.00      0o.0   1605.41
2 W0 COsMto Cab.Oft. 4b    No.          10     7      0     0    1r         631    6312.30   4416.96        0.00      0.0        0.00    o0.    1o073.n
2 oM Cob   Noet.           IN.          0      4      0     0      4        631        0.00   2525.12       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   255.12
F. Nawotoroye
etrso90eAl-No/F                 3o    1so      0      0   51o          47   170t4.55    7101.00      0.90      0.00      0.00.      0.90   24146.45
N=terco-so Gco   Al 4.,                30    20       0     0    so          37    1106.r4    736.49        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   161.25
Motorcyclye -10 co-So                  30    20       0     0    so          47    1420.36    946.92       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   236r.30
m_                                                            tos6s~~~~~~~~~~~~~15.67   6785.31  0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   2054.96
II. RSCUT mOS
...............
A. Opwration mid Miimntem
Civlt works '5                          -     .      -                                00        76.23    105.6     105.64    105.64    105.U4    496.70
fPold &upmnt e6                                      .                               69.63    2.6.64    276."6    276.6       276.64    276.6    1432.80
'amning uquipmet 4.-                                .     .                         47.71     47.71      47.71     47.71     47.71     47.71    2m.2?
oHfice Squipan '6                                                            .      36.00    463.27    561.72    694.63    80.54    92.46   377.71
Vfabiola 34P7"                                                                     IM 19.31   3287.74   327.74   326.74   326.74   326.74  16232.01
Xtfcf"t="**~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                        *.*.*.*....  ... ...  .....m.6.n .......     .......     ..........or4 2t 2
&Al.-Tow                                                                           2216.73   4151.59    42W.44   "412.36   455.27   408.16  24243.5?
S. Trewttirg Uxpo9wee 4n.o
AIlcuUorOf All             lump as    M9   M9       M     7M   476            9    7162.00   7182.00   7162.00   7162.00   7162.00   7`162.00  4309.00
AllowancAes Oft                        is    78    is    is   446             9     702.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    702.00    702.00   4212.00
Allosmien Aft 51                       i      so    so    so   348           28   1624.00   1624.00   1624.00   1624.00   1624.00   1624.00   9744.00
Atisscee P0/ADs                        23    23    23    23   136            11    253.0      25.0       230        5.0      25.0       230       560
GA-TOm                                                                             9761.00   9761.00   9761.00   9761.00   9761.00   9761.00  58566.00
C. Office Rental
Al Offices                             53    13    53       0   159           6    316.00    318.00    316.00        0.00      0.00       0.00    954.00
.nitoring                                                                             2.00    200.00    200.00    200.00    200.00    200.00   1200.00
47452.96  4r47.59  1666.4?  15446.53  15559."4  15672.36 15115.24
T4  Pro * Povincial lteve    t-  otion  level, ofit. ofietrct tevt.
4. Euipment for 16 districts. fnutuilfi o ne for ettt n. (itewr. PrOV.
4. fP. one Agr. SxtionlfAppreOrigt Teneloy Catwor (PAU).
44& huorpwat. furarrfm wai mnd N eW  Pfrer ativlties.
4.  atlautlted St a ret of Is of teiawvsmt eten.
.6 Calculated at a rate of 10s ef the fnvtmnt oAts.
.r Calteuloted at a rate of 15X Of dse fmftmoet eoets.
4. Irot. As*eetwnco  tratl ned fhal atllmme for dmterei .1.
UiMt Cost Stcaed by 1000.0  2/V/19M2  11:32



SRI LANKA
Second Agricultural Extension Project
TA  2. Department of Export Agri. - Extension Progra_
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
Quantity            Unit Cost                   Base Costs
Unit  1993  1994 95-98 Total      1993-98         1993      1994   1995-98     Total
........... ..................................  .........  ---------------........---------------------.-.............
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. EquipYent
Overhead Projector         No.    8      2     0    10          32       252.51     63.13      0.00    315.64
Slide Projector            No.    8      2     0    10          42       336.68    84.17       0.00    420.85
TV/VCR                     No.    8      2     0    10          42       336.68    84.17       0.00   420.85
Computer/Accessories       No.    3      0     0     3         132       394.55      0.00      0.00    394.55
AC for Computer Room       No.     3     0     0     3          42       126.26      0.00       0.00    126.26
Sub-Total                                                                1446.68    231.47      0.00   1678.15
B. Vehicles
2 WD Twin Cabs             No.     3     0     0     3         631      1893.84      0.00      0.00   1893.84                           1
C. Motorcycles                                                                                                                               Z
Motorcycles - 90 cc              100     0     0   100          47      4734.60      0.00      0.00  4734.60                           %0
D. Contract Services
Tele-dra_                          1     1    0      2         509       508.69    508.69      0.00   1017.38                           1
TV Docu entary                     2     0     0     2         102       203.48      0.00      0.00    203.48
Print Media MateriaL              -     -     -                 -       2034.76   2034.76   2034.76  12208.53
Sub-Total                                                                2746.92   2543.44   2034.76  13429.38
Total IIMSTMENT COSTS                                                          10822.04   2774.91   2034.76 21735.97
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Operation & Maintenance
Equipment Q2,              No.    -        -     -     -                 152.21    176.56    176.56   1035.03
Vehicles '3)               No.    -     -     -     -           -        298.89    298.89    298.89   1793.31
Sub-Total                                                                 451.10    475.45    475.45   2828.34
8. Travwl llowance              No.   150   150   150   900           4       540.00    540.00    540.00   3240.00
C. Nonitoring                   No.           --         -           -        150.00    150.00    150.00   900.00
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                           1141.10   1165.45   1165.45   6968.34                        p
3=S===.==  ======= --- ----    =__=== -o
Total                                                                       11963.13   3940.36   3200.20  28704.31
================      ===== ===-2____=__=____-= == -====u=s====*= --=-----------:                                                   >
<1> 2.500 sq. ft.                                                                                                                            o 9
<2> Calculated at a rate of 102 of the investment costs.                                                                                     -h r.4
'3> Calculated at a rate of 15X of the investment costs.                                                                                       >
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - values scaled by 1000.0  2/27/1992  11:40                                                                         un



SRI LANKA
Second Agricultural Extension Project
TabW3 Aninal Production and Health Dep.
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
Quantity              Unit Cost                   Base Costs
Unit   1993   1994  95-98  Total      1993-98         1993      1994   1995-98    Total
.....................  ....... .................... .............  ......... .................. .................................. ........ .
1. INVESTMIENT COSTS
................
A. Equipnent
Coqputer + Printer      No.           1      0      0      1         210       210.43      0.00      0.00    210.43
TV/VCR onitor           No.           7      0      0      7          42       294.60      0.00      0.00    294.60
Overhead ProJector      No.           7      0      0      7          37       257.77      0.00      0.00    257.77
SubrTotal                                                                       762.80      0.00      0.00    762.80                          1
S. Vehicles
Motor cycles 90 cc      No.         100     50      0    150          47      4734.60   2367.30      0.00   7101.90                          0
C. Contract Services
Radio                   lup sum          -      -         -           -        854.60   854.60    854.60   5127.58
Television Time         lup sum      -      -      -      -           -       1424.33   1424.33   1424.33   8545.97
Print edia              lunp si      -  -       -      -              -       1627.80   1627.80   1627.80   9766.82
Exhibition Units        No.           0      7      0      7        1628         0.00  11394.63      0.00  11394.63
Sub-Total                                                                      3906.73  15301.36   3906M73 34835.01
.........    ............. .........    ............. ...................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                9404.12  17668.66  3906.73  42699.70
J1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Travelling Expenses
LDI                     No.          50    150    200   1000           4       180.00   540.00    720.00  3600.00
B. Operations & Maintenance
Equipment               No.          -      -      -      -           -          7.95      7.95      7.95     47.68
C. Monitoring                No.          -             -      -           -        150.00    150.00    150.00    900.00
,............  .............. .........  .............. ..
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                  337.95   697.95    877.95   4547.68
3==3===-s _-=c=__ 33===--
Total                                                                              9742.07  18366.60   4784.68 47247.38                         w
=== ===--==-=====-----==------                                                         o                                                             z
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  2/27/1992  11:41                                                                            I.1><



SRI LANKA
Secod Agricultural Extemion Project
TOW4. Dep. of Agriculture -Tech. Tran. Div.-M   Mdia Ccnaic.
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
Quantity               Unit Cost                             Be# Costs
Unit  1993 1994 1995 1996 97-98 Total    1993-98       1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    1996    Total
.................. .................................................. ......... .............  ......................................................................
1. IVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Civil Works
Sta f  uartes gr. Iv      No.    0    2    0    0    0    2          910       0.00  1820.85     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  1820.85
Staff Quarters gr. III    No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          60r       0.00   606.95     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   606.95
Far. Broating Can.-Ron.   No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          506       0.00   505.79     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   505.79
store-Stationary/Print    No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          506       0.00   505.79     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   505.79
Cmntications Unit         No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          506        0.00   505.79    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   505.79
Architects Fee 01)        No.   -    -    -    -    -                 -         0.00   394.52    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   394.52
Sub-Total                                                                       0.00  4339.70     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  4339.70
B. Office Equlepnt
Tape Recorders            No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           42       64.17    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    84.17
N_apn                     No.    2    0    0    0    0    2            6       12.63     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    12.63
Type Writers-Engltih      No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           32       63.13    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    63.13
Type Writers - Sinhala    No.    2    2    0    0    0    4           16       31.56    31.56    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    63.13
Duplicator                No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           42       84.17    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    84.17
Scaer-Laser               No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           68      136.78    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   136.78
Coaputer /Accessories.    No.    3    0    0    0    0    3          210      631.28    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   631.28
Node.                     No.    3    0    0    0    0    3           16       47.35    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    47.35
Fax Ichine                No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           63      126.26    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   126.26      H
Desk Top Pubtiher         No.    0    2    0    0    0    2          295        0.00   58.19     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   58.19
Binding Machine           No.    0    1    0    1    0    2          210        0.00   210.43    0.00   210.43     0.00     0.00   420.85
Plate Maker               No.    1    0    0    0    0    1          105      105.21    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   105.21
Paper Folding Machine     No.    1    0    0    0    0    1         2104     2104.27    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  2104.27
ENG Color TV Camera Acc.   No.    P    1    0    0    0    1         579        0.00   578.67    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   578.67
U-Natic 3/40 VCR          No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          105        0.00   105.21     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   105.21
U-Natic High Band Record.   No.    0    1    0    0    0    1        105        0.00   105.21    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   105.21
Color Monitor             No.    0    1    0    0    0    1           16        0.00    15.78    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    15.78
Cera/Accessories          No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           32       63.13    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    63.13
AC for Coiruter Roc.      No.    3    0    0    0    0    3           42      126.26    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   126.26
Laer Printer              No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           42       84.17    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    84.17
Slide Projector -C     Mrosel   No.    1    0    0    0    0    1     42       42.09    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    42.09
Printer Dot Matrix        No.    3    0    0    0    0    3           U       126.26     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   126.26
Photocopier               No.    2    0    0    0    0    2          lI5      210.43    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   210.43
Sub-Total                                                                     4079.12  1636.07    0.00   210.43     0.00     0.00  5925.61
C. Training Equipnent
Lighting EqIulpmnt - Mat.   No.    0    1    0    0    0    1        316        0.00   315.64    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   315.64     '
Nigh lbnd Editing System    No.    0    0    1    0    0    1       2104        0.00    0.00  2104.27     0.00     0.00     0.00  2104.27
Video Titling Typewriter    No.    0    2    0    0    0    2         53        0.00   105.21     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   105.21    °
Special Effects Generator   No.    0    0    1    0    0    1        210        0.00    0.00   210.43     0.00     0.00     0.00   210.43
Videographic Geneator     No.    0    1    0    0    0    1          210        0.00   210.43    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   210.43
Traparency Market         No.    1    0    0    0    0    1           63       63.13    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    63.13
Silk Screen Printing Tabt   No.    1    0    0    0    0    1        210      210.43    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   210.43
Slide Draw                No.    2    0    0    0    0    2           21       42.09    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    42.09    ,.X
Mp Cabinet                No.    3    0    0    0    0    3           16       47.35     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    47.35    Q%IU1
Audio Mixer               No.    0    1    0    0    0    1           21        0.00    21.04    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    21.04
Voltage Stabilizr 1.5 IV   No.    3    0    0    0    0    3          16       47.35    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    47.35



Seb-Total                                                                        410.33   652.32  2314.69     0.00     0.00      0.00  3377.35
D. Vehicles
Station Ibpon             No.    0    1    0    0    0    1            631        0.00   631.28     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   631.2S
2 W  Twin Cabin 2         No.    0    3    0    0    0    3            631        0.00  1893.84     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  1893.6
Sub-Totsl                                                                          0.00  2525.12     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00  2525.12
E. Motorccles                  No.    2    0    0    0    0    2            47       94.69      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    94.69
F. Contract Servicm
Print Nedia-Prckjc. Value   lo.   -      -    -    -         -          -        76.30   117.00    91.56   111.91   134.29   152.61   683.68
Print Mdia-Print. Value    lo.         -    -       -    -              -       478.17  1017.38   712.16   854.60  1017.38  1220.85  U300.S4
Radio Proeect.* Air Time    No.   10   10   10   10   10   60            8       61.39    81.39    81.39    81.39    81.39    81.39   488.34
Television Production     No.    2    2    2    2    2   12            366      732.51   732.51   732.51   732.51   732.51   732.51  4395.07
Miscetllueo                No.   -    -    -    -    -    -             -       122.09   122.09   122.09   122.09   122.09   122.09   732.51
SubTotsl                                                                        1490.46  2070.36  1739.72  1902.50  2087.66  2309.45 11600.14
Total IN_TNEUT COSTS                                                                 6074.60 11223.57  4054.41  2112.92  2067.66  2309.45 27J62.61
11. PtECIT COSTS
...............
A. Opeation ad Naintence
Civi I oas O          - -    - -                                                  0.00    43.52    43.52    43.52    43.52    43.52   217.61
Equipnt                          -       -    -        -                -       429.18   601.31   601.31   623.45   623.45   623.45  3502.16
Vehicles 4                       -    -    -    -    -    -             -         0.00   398.51   398.51   398.51   398.51   396.51  1992.57
Sub-Total                                                                        429.18  1043.35  1043.35  1065.49  1065.49  1065.49  5712.35
Total REORYINT COSTS                                                                   429.18  1043.35  1043.35  1065.49  1065.49  1065.49  5712.35        I
mmzaguum IMaM              inzmza inuuM          mm
Total                                                                              6503.78 12266.92  5097.76  3178.41  3153.15  3374.94 33574.95
I
'1) Catleuted at a rate of 10 of the lnvestent costs.
'2> Cnr each to Prlnter ed 3 regional broadcating unit.
3v3  Caiculated at a rate of 1X of the Iawest fw t costs.
'4o Calculated at a rate of 101 of th invest ent costs.
4zS Calculated at a rate of 1S% of thc invrtent costs.
Unit Costa Sc led by 1000.0 - Vlues scated by 1000.0 2/27/1992 11:39
so
0



SRI LAUW
Second Agricultural Extensmin Project
Tafbs . D.p, of Agriculture - SCPP Plant Protection Sub-Division
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
ouantity                 Unit Coot                            Bsae Costs
Unit   1993  1994  1995  1996 97-96 Total    1993-96         1993     1994      1995      1996  1997-96    Total
1. INtfSTNET COSTS
................
A. Civil Vorks
46 quarters                 No.             5    2    0    0    0    7             910      4552.13  1820.85       0.00     0.00      0.00  6372.99
36 Quarters                 No.             5    2    0    0    0    7             607      3034.76  1213.90       0.00     0.00      0.00  4246.66
2B quarters                 No.             2    0    0    0    0    2             303       606.95      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   606.95
lnact Proof Nesh Nous       No.             0    2    2    0    0    4             253         0.00   505.79   505.79       0.00      0.00  1011.59
Plant Shed/Soll Foligat.    No.             0     1    0    0    0    1             20         0.00    20.23       0.00     0.00      0.00    20.23
Plant Scre.n ouse           No.             0    2    0    0    0    2             253         0.00   505.79       0.00     0.00      0.00   505.79
Insect rearing cages        No.             0    5    5    0    0    10              1         0.00      5.06     5.06      0.00      0.00    10.12
Lob Office Renowation       No.             0     1    1    0    0    2             51         0.00    50.58    50.58       0.00      0.00   101.16
Screen houee-rmaow tions   No.             1    0    0    0    0         1         25        25.29      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    25.29
Architects Fe s6>           No.            -    -    -    -    -    -               -        820.47   411.24    55.57        0.00     0.00  1287.25
SukbTotal                                                                                    9039.59  4533.45   617.00       0.00      0.00 14190.05
O. Office Equipemnt
Fax _achine                 No.             0     1    0    0    0       1          63         0.00    63.13      0.00      0.00      0.00    63.13
Type writer - Englieh       No.             2    0    2    0    0    4              42        84.17      0.00    8K.17      0.00      0.00   168.34
Type writer - Sircbla       No.             2    0    0    0    0    2              21        42.09      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    42.09        in
Roneo Nchine                No.             1    0    0    0    0         1         26        26.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    26.30
Sewnr Laser                 No.             1    0    0    0    0         1         47        47.35      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    47.35
Coquter w Printer           No.             0     1    0    0    0        1        263         0.00   263.03       0.00      0.00     0.00   263.03
Computer Softwre            No.             0     1    0    0    0    1            105         0.00   105.21       0.00      0.00     0.00   105.21
Steel Cabinets              No.             2    3    0    0    0    5               7        14.73    22.09       0.00     0.00      0.00    36.62
Fotocopy uchfno             No.             1    0    0    0    0    1              79        78.91      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    7s.9
Computer Furniture          No.             0     1    0    0    0    1             11         0.00    10.52       0.00     0.00      0.00    10.52
Sub-Total                                                                                     293.55   463.99    84.17        0.00     0.00   641.71
C. Laboratory Equip-mnt
Oven                        Ii.             1    0    0    0    0    1             156       157.82      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   157.82
Ultra violet ltop           Nd.             1    0    0    0    0    1              11        10.52      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    10.52
Popr cutter                 No.             1    0    0    0    0    1               3         3.16      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      3.16
Sprayers, bnpswck           No.             2    0    0    0    0    2               3         6.31      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      6.31
Spryvers hand               No.             2    3    0    0    0    5               0         0.86      1.26      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.10
Slide Projector             No.             1    0    0    0    0    1              32        31.56      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    31.56
Glasswre                    lump sua             -                                            5 -    -  -  52.61    S2.61    52.61    52.61    S2.61   31S.64
Polythese eeler             No.             2    0    0    0    0    2               2         4.21      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      4.21      8V
Gardn hose                  No.             1    0    0    0    0         1          2         2.10      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.10      b
Terpentinw  hoot            No.             2    0    0    0    0    2               2         4.21      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      4.21     *
Irncinr tor                 No.             1    0    0    0    0        1          53        52.61      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    52.61
Plastic pots                ljurp e        -    -    -         u         -          -         26.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    26.30       °
Refrigerator                No.             2    0    0    0    0    2              21        42.09      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    42.09       O
Chemicals                   lmtpaeu        -    -    -    -    -    -               -         52.61      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    52.61      "i
Sub-Total                                                                                     446.95    53.67    52.61    S2.61    52.61   711.24         0
D. Equip. Post Control Unit
Air conditioner             No.             2    0    0    0    0    2              S3       105.21      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   105.21
Refrigerator 8 cu. ft.      go.             2    0    0    0    L    2              26        52.61      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    52.61
Cabinets for m*CsC  ei    No.               S    5    0    0    0   13              11        84.17    52.61       0.00     0.00      0.00   136.78
Light traps                 No.             6    6    12    0    0   24              3        18.94    18.94    37.88       0.00      0.00    75.75



Tarpentins C24'ic24')      No.            2    2    0    0    0    4             5       10.52    10.52      0.00     0.00.    0.00    21.04
TVIVCI                     No.            1    0    0    0    0    1            53       52.61      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    52.61
Cm_a                       No.            1    0    0    0    0    1            21       21.04      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    21.04
Slide Projector            No.            1    0    0    0    0    1            42       42.09      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    42.09
niwe.lnoua 42              tlp  -swm                                                     52.61    52.61    52.61    52.61    52.61   315.64
Sub-Total                                                                                439.79   134.67    90.48    52.61    52.61   822.77
E. Vehictes
Pase r car                 no.            1    0    0    0    0    1           842      841.71      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00 81.71
2W Picku.p                 No.            0    4    3    0    0    7           631        0.00  2525.12  1893.84      0.00      0.00  418.96
4 WD -  ird tep            NO.            0    1    0    0    0    1           736        0.00 736.49        0.00     0.00      0.00   736.49
Sub-Total                                                                                841.71  3261.61  1893.84      0.00     0.00  5997.16
f. Notorcycles
Notorcycles 90 cc          No.            0    5    4    0    0    9            47        0.00   236.73   189.38      0.00      0.00   426.11
Total IVESTNENT COSTS                                                                         11061.58  8684.33  2927.49   105.21   105.21 22989.04
I. RECURIET COSTS
...............
A. Incremental Staff
Technical - R.0. 4         Person Year    0    1    2    0    0    3            20        0.00    20.00    40.00      0.00      0.00    60.00
Technical A.0. '4          Person Year    2    3    2    2    0    9            20       40.00    60.00    40.00    40.00       0.00   180.00
Tecnical A.I.              Person Year    2    3    2    2    0    9            18       36.00    54.00    36.00    36.00      0.00   162.00
K.V.S.I. <42               Person Year    2    3    2    2    0    9            16       32.00    48.00    32.00    32.00       0.00   14.00
Support Staff              Person Year    4    6    4    4    0   18            14       S6.00    84.00    56.00    56.00       0.00   252.00
Sub-Total                                                                                 164.00   266.00   204.00   164.00      0.00   798.MO
B. Operation A Naintenance
Civil Works *5>            No.           -         -     -     -     -          -        90.63   136.08   142.27   142.27   142.27   795.80
EQufpint cl No.                                -    -    -    -    -            -        30.58    78.91    87.68    87.68    87.68   460.22
Vehicles 47                No.           -    -    -    -    -                           131.52   641.17   937.09   937.09   937.09  4521.05
Sb-bTotal                                                                                252.73   856.16  1167.04  1167.04  1167.04  5777.07
C. Travelling Expenses
Technical R.0.             No.            0    1    2    0    0    3             9        0.00     9.00    18.00      0.00      0.00    27.00
Technical A.0.             No.            2    3    2    2    0    9             9        18.00    27.00    18.00    18.00      0.00    81.00
Technical Ad1.             No.            2    3    2    2    0    9             6        12.00    18.00    12.00    12.00      0.00    54.00
K.V.S.N.                   No.            2    3    2    2    0    9             2        4.00      6.00     4.00     4.00      0.00    18.00
Sub-Total                                                                                 34.00    60.00    52.00    34.00        .00O  180.00
Total REC_RENT COSTS                                                                            450.73  1182.16  1423.04  1365.04  1167.04  6755.07
Total                                                                                      11512.32  9866.49  4350.S3  1470.26  122.26 29744.10
*1 Pathology (1); Entomology (10); Weeds (2).
42> Protective clothing, olasssre and chemicals.
3  Airport (2); O (1).
4< Ni (2); Regional (7). This distribution applies to AO, KVS, ad Al.
45 Calculated at a rate of 1S of the Inetmnt costs.
'6  Caleulated at a rate of 10X of the invntm_nt costs.
73 Calculated at a rate of 15S of the investnt costs. 
Utnit Costs Scaed by 1000.0  Values scaled by 1000.0 2271992  11:45
n



AwedDsicuAwal Oxtauicnl  Projet
Waitlled Cost Teds
ma
amtity                   emnit coat                       ies" Cost
Uiket  IM9  19094 19M  1996 199? 199 Total    im199.9    199      M99      19       19116    190?    1999    Ttall
A. Cvii Usuh,
Office uwatlu io           N.            1    0    0    a    0    0    1           51    0.51     0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00     0.06    3.56
4 o06atrs cm)              No.           a    0       0    0    0 0    2           i  11101 U0.00  0.061 0.00 .              0.00     0.00  11020.46
20artarIS cm)             80.            I    0    0    0    0    0    1          30  33.40       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   3013.48
Architact has 4b           06.                                                     . 215.02       9.00     0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00   215462
VA-TOM                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~2390.53  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00     0.00  239.53
U. lqap as ow stic. l.*
M. am. we 4b00.                   I    0    0    0    0    0    1          042  961.71      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   961.71
corinsogr. platssono.      go.           1    0    0    0    0    0    1          2a3  263.03     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    03.05
Studsr 43,                 00.           I    0    0    0    0    0    1            5    5.39     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.06     5.39
00q-pp  -cuttw rmAer 46   06.            1    0    0    0    0    0    1            a    B0.2     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     L42
Orludor4p                  so.           I    0    0    0    0    0    1            5    5.39     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     5.39
bsfrlgwsratrcu.ft.         06.           I    0    0    0    0    0    1           39   26.30     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    39.30
6selum  4,                 ID.           I    0    0    0    0    0    1          14 610.34       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0."011014.34
Shoe.vsnrclet rotation    no.           1    0    0    0    0    0    I          I5O  157.62     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.001  11.02
Cacultorm (Statistical)   06.            2    0    0    0    0    0    a            1    2.10     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     R.16
Uhecelluu.a "Aimmont 01. o.              1    0    0    0    0    0    1           16   15.76     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    13.
Caimlcos                   ND.           I    1    1    0    1    0    4          59  526.07  5SU.0    526.07       0.00   539.0?     0.00  210.2?
C. 114hickes
PommewCa                  0 g.           I    0    0    0    0    0    I          6129S1.M        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.400961.21
asp-jep                   go.            I    0    0    0    0    0    1          631 631.20      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.200031.211
*,%.Taw                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1412.9191    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.001  1472.99
0. Offic W. 5pm"~
!)Imwite06.                            2    0          0    0    2          39    0.0     77.s      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    77.06
Ppleroi                   06.            0    12    0         0     0                    00      75.91     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    70.91
A kneoNiim                06.            0    1    0    0    0    0    1           39    0.00    39.30     0.00     0.00     0.00     00        93"
Co -ar06Illprintar1l* 06.            0     1    0    0    0    0    I         308    0.00   368.25      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00N    00O   3 "
Compter Furniturt         No.            0    1    0    0    0    0    1           ii    0.00    10.5      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.52'
SetCabldinatit            06.            0    3    0    0    0    0    3            7    0.00    22.090    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    22.09
FOR sclimu               to.            0    1    0    0    0    0    1           43    0.00    43.13     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    83.13
lntatCom Tsqnell .*r      06n N.         0    1    0    0    0    0    1           79    0.00    78.91     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    IL.9
OAWTON    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~.0    7.9                      000      0.00    0.00     0.00   72.97
Tqw  cam   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~56.61  1232.01   539.07                             0.00   526.07    0.00  51617.39
Hi. REuaMmu cmi
A. Inicrasasta staff
Snessch Offlcsr            Person yew    0    2    I    0    0    0    3           20    0.00    40.00    20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    00.00
Assist. Esgistrwr          Pam Vonw      0    1    0    0    0    0    1            0    00       000      0.0      0.0      0.0      000    10.00
Cematsr Progmsr            PsrsmnYea     0    1    0    0    0    0    11          16    0.0 0    16.0     0.00,    0.00     0.00     0.00    16.0
0AVIrt Staff              PerSMowis      0    4    2    2    2    2   12           14    0.00    56.00    211.001   28.00    20.00    20.00  1U6.00
CivilwatarnS 4, PtiSel  W.   23.97    23.97    23.97    23.97    23.97    23.9?   103.81
wpmt 49~~~~~,  Plirm TOW ~~~~~.  210.43   265.24   3210.01   320.04   374.86   374.86  109.41
Vokictes -clol.  persm TOW  ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     .230.16   230.16   230.16   230.16   230.16   230.16  1300.90
StopTOW                                                                               464.56   519.37   574.17   574.17   628.97   423.97  339.20
Towe a    canm                                                                          46.6 41.?   4J.1    0.17 65.7 4.9 36.2
idd                                                              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~316.18  1903.40  1148.23   002.17  11M.03   656.97 11811.96
43, lIncludest softusr.
'2' G". Chropotograiia.  a01 coIltA  t=. programale w/ datactoma £intour.
4,c, wance blerodar. sxiplosiue proof 1.spew d  tiii u ,r Jar size I Lit.                                                                            O
c4p' Nbawt cotte sizer or atitrlvalent.a
4S, Equipip. for reducing aWIs to 20 mob peaticlclee.                                                                                                C
'6' Electronic top loading digital (rum  0.400'S).
a?'. Syrins. miclro-pipettas a glsasamna. 
41t Calculated at a rats of IS of the inveslotcosts.
49,o Calculatad at a rats of 1OX of thap investwas costs.
,1t3s Calcultetd at a rate of 1S% of ties lewetanIt costs.



U1 LAWCA
Swcond Agriculturat Extensmin Project
T1e7. Dep. of Agriculture -Technology Tram. Division - Training
Detailed Cost Table
Oumntity              Unit Cost                                Rrse Costs
_ -
Unit  1993  199  1994 I 96-9 Totat    193-9f          1993     1994      199S     1996      1997      1995    Totat
1. IWESNWT COCTS
........................... 
A. Civil Works
PTI Training CoqAe x d1,    No.             0    1    0    0    1           6070        0.00  6069.51      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  6069.51
lmnoatiomns -RTI            lup-                       -          -           -         0.00  4248.66  3034.76       0.00      0.00     0.00  7283.41
Staff  wrters gr. iv        No.             0    3    0    0    3            724        0.00  2351.94      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  251.94
Staff  wrters gr. III       No.             0    2    0    0    2            550        0.00  1100.60      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  1100.60
Netel Extmns.-Cunnorums '2  No.                  -        -    -              -         0.00  2023.17  2023.17  2023.17  2023.17  2023.17 10115.85
DATC Renevation             No.                  -        -       -           -         0.00   809.27   89.27   809.27   809.27   809.27  4846.34
Water Pump SystWNoausing   No.              0    2    0    0    2            514        0.00  1028.16      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  1028.9f
Architects/Ens. Fe r3       No.                  -           -    -                     0.00  1745.54   581.51   200.73        0.00     0.00  2607.75
..... ..........  ......  ......... ...... ......... ........ ......... ......  ........... .........  ............. .........
Sub-Totnl                                                                                0.00 19377.65  6448.71   3113.17  2832.44  282.44 34604.40
S. Field Equipment
Negaphonee-Eat.             No.             0    2    0    0    2              6         0.00    12.63      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    12.63
Negphones-Pro.              No.             0    15    0    0   15             6         0.00    94.69      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    94.69
Tep Recorders-Nat.          No.             0    2    0    0    2             42        0.00    84.17       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    54.17
Tape Recorders- Pro.        No.             0    3    0    0    3             42        0.00   126.26       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   126.26    1
Spray Units/Water Pu pft    no.             0    4    0    0    4             18        0.00    71.55       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    71.55    us
Spray Units/Water PuW-Pr   No.              0   17    0    0   17             i8         0.00   304.07      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   305.07    01
Sub-Totat                                                                                0.00   693.36       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   693.36
C. Training Equipeet/S2ppt.
VIVCR-Nat.                  No.             0    2    0    0    2             42        0.00    84.17       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    t4.17
TV/VCR-Pro.                 No.             0    5    0    0    5             42         0.00   210.43      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   210.43
Cmra accessories-Nat.       No.             2    0    0    0    2             32        63.13     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    63.13
Camra accessories-Pro.      No.             3    0    0    0    3             32        94.69     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    94.69
PA System - at.             No.             0    2    0    0    2             32         0.00    63.13      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    63.13
PA System - Pro.            No.             0    3    0    0    3             32         0.00    94.69      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    94.69
Conf. Rooo Audlo Unit-Nat   No.             0    0    1    0    1            210         0.00     0.00   210.43      0.00      0.00      0.00   210.43
Conf.Room Audio Unit-Pro.   No.             0    1    0    0    1            210         0.00   210.43      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   210.43
Laser Scanners-Nat.         No.             0    1    0    0    1             68         0.00    68.39      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    68.39
Laser Scmers-Pro.           No.             0    2    0    0    2             68        0.00   136.78       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   136.75
Duplicator - Not.           No.             2    0    0    0    2             53       105.21     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   105.21
Dupticator - Pro.           No.             3    0    0    0    3             53       157.82     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   157.J2
Digitel Dupticator          No.             1    0    0    0    1            631       631.28     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   631.28
Coqputer-Nat.               No.             2    0    0    0    2            126       252.51     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    52.51
Ccuter-Pro.                 No.             0    S    0    0    5            126        0.00   631.28       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   631.28
Printer Dot Natrix          No.             0    5    0    0    5             32        0.00   157.82      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   157.82
Printer KLO                 No.             2    0    0    0    2             42       84.17      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    84.17  "
Computer Room AC - Nat.     No.             2    0    0    0    2             42       84.17      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    84.17  00
Computer Roae AC - Pro.    No.              3    0    0    0    3             42       126.26     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   126.26  0
Node                        No.             4    3    0    0    7             16       63.13    47.35       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   110.47 'DI O
Slide Projector - Nat.      No.             2    0    0    0    2             42       84.17      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    84.17  cI§
Slide Projector-Pro.        No.             3    0    0    0    3             42       126.26     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   126.26  '. ,j
Overhead ProJector - Nat.   No.             2    0    0    0    2             16       31.56      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    31.56  1e
Photocopiers - nat.         No.             2    0    0    0    2             63       126.26     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   126.26   Clun
Photocopier - Pro.          No.             2    0    0    0    2             63       126.26     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   126.26
Overhead Projector-Pro      No.             5    0    0    0    5             16        78.91     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    78.91
Teaching Naterials          No.            -    -    -    -    -              -        105.21    105.21   105.21    105.21    105.21   105.21   631.28



Sub-Total                                                                        2341.0   1809.67   315.64   105.21   105.21   105.21  47ai.94
0. OffSce EJIpm*t
NmUul Typewritr-Nat.     No.             2    0    0    0    2           16       31.56    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    31.56
auoml Typewriter-Pro.     no.            8    7    0    0   1s           16      126.26   110.47    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   236.73
Air Conditioners - at.    No.            2    0    0    0    2           42       84.17    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    84.17
Office Supplies            o            -    -    -                -              42.09    42.09    42.09    42.09    42.09    42.09   252.SI
Sub-Total                                                                        284.08   152.56    U.09    42.09    42.09    42.09   6c4.96
E. Othr Equipment
eavy Duty Fl. Polls. Nat   N.            0    2    0    0    2           16       0.00    31.56     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    31.S6
Heavy Outy Fl. Pot. Pro.    No.          0    1    0    0    1           16       0.00    15.78     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    15.78
Vaccua Cltean  - Nat.     No.            2    0    0    0    2           32      63.13     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    63.13
crassMOW   - Not.         NO.            2    0    0    0    2           37        .6s     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    73.65
Orss* Nlr - Pro.          NO.            2    0    0    0    2           37      73.65     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    73.6S
Sub-Total                                                                        210.43              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   257.77
f . Vehicles
ZUD Twin Cob - fot.       No.            0    2    0    0    2          631       0.00  1262.S6     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  1262.56
2aD Twin Cob - Pro.       No.            S    2    0    0    7          631     3156.40  1262.56    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  4418.96
Sutb-Total                                                                       31S6.40  2525.12    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  5681.52
C. Motorcycles
Motorcycls s0 cc Nt.                     S    0    0    0    5           47      236.73    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   236.73
Notorcycles 90 cc-Pro                    9    9    0    0   18           47      426.11   426.11    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   852.23
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......... ......... I. ..... .........  .........  ............. .........  .............  ... .......__......  ...
SUb-Total                                                                        662.84   426.11     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  1066.96
. furniture
os tel  I A tTI                         -    -    -    -    -            -       150.00   400.00   300.00    0.00     0.00     0.00  850.00   u
DATC                                    -    -    -    -    -            -        60.00   250.00   250.00    65.00    0.00     0.00   625.00  -.
Sub-Total                                                                         210.00   650.00   S50.00    65.00    0.00     0.00  1415.00
1. ate(l Eqai.ubnt
Dep freewr - Nt.          No.            2    0    0    0    2           31       62.43    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    62.43
O ep Frezer - Pro.        No.            5    5    0    0   10           31      156.00   156.00    0.00     0.00     O.00     0.00   312.16
Refrigerator - Pro.       No.           10    0    0    0   10           26      260.14    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   260.14
efrigerator - Nat.        No.            2    0    0    0    2           26       52.03    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    52.03
Gas Stoe & Acces. - Nat.   No.           2    0    0    0    2           62      124.87    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   124.8
Oas Stow & Acces. - Pro.   No.           5   10    0    0   15           62      312.16   624.33    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   936.49
lTI - N" vDutyNixer       No.            6    0    0    0    6           31      187.30    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   187.30
NIl- FoodPressor          No.            5    0    0    0    S           31      156.0t    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     6.0
RTIiIATC-Food Processor   No.           10    5    0    0   1S           31      312.16   156.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   466.25
RTI/DATC-Noew Duty Mixer   No.          10    5    0    0   1S           31      312.16   156.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   468.25
Crockery/Pantry Utensis 4> IuWl   s     -    -    -    -    -            -      S20.27     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   520.27
oas Cylindrs - Nat.       No.            2    0    0    0    2           5        10.41    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.41
a sCylind" rPro.          Uo.           10    S    0    0   1S           S       52.03    26.01     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    75.01
5Ub-Totai                                                                       2518.13  1118.59     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  3636.71
J. Technical Asiste
Ext. Ipwcilstst (Foreign)   Person Month    6    0    0    0    6       379     2M.61      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  2272.61
Org. Dev. 5pec.(Foreign)    Person onth    6    0    0    0    6        379    2272.61     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  2272.61   'd
Sub-Toutl                                                                        454S.21    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  4545.21
Total IWESTIET CCSTS                                                                 ;13  .0i 26800.40  i356.43  3325.47  2i9.74  2979.74 573  69
11. i ECUT CS                                                                                                                                          p I
........... ....
A. Opwrotiom & Noint nmne
Civil wrks 45                              -    -    -    -        -              0.00   196.02   261.26   292.75   321.40   350.05  1421.48
field Equdpmnt 4b                       -    -    -    -    -            -        0.00    72.95    72.95    72.95    72.95 n2.95   364.75
Training Equipment 4J                   -    -    -    -    -            -      246.30   436.70   469.91   480.96   492.05   503.12  Z629.09



Office Equipment c6-                                                -          -         29.89    45.94    50.37    54.80    59.22    63.65   303.87
Vehicles c-    -    -                                               -          -        498.U    896.66   896.66   896.66   896.66   896.66  4981.42
Sub-Total                                                                                774.33   1648.27   1751.14  1798.13  1842.28  1886.43  9700.61
B. Travelling Expenses
OATC-AOs                    Person Month   22   22   22   22  132               9       198.00   198.00   198.00   198.00    198.00   198.00  1188.00
DATC-Als                    Person Month   44   44   44   44  264               6       264.00   264.00   264.00   264.00   264.00   264.00  1584.00
DATC KVSs                   Person Month  110  110  110  110  660               2       220.00   220.00   220.00   220.00   220.00   220.00  1320.00
RTI ADs                     Person Month    8    8       8    8   48            9        72.00    72.00    72.00    72.00    72.00    72.00   432.00
RTI S9Ss                    Person Month   28   28   28   28  168               8       224.00   224.00   224.00   224.00   224.00   224.00  1344.00
RTI Als                     Person Month   14   14   14   14   84               6        84.00    84.00    84.00    84.00    84.00    84.00   504.00
RTI KVSs                    Person Month   21   21   21   21  126               2        42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00   252.00
UTI SYS                     Person Nonth    4    4    4        4   24           8        32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00   192.00
NTI Ala                     Person Month    4    4    4    4   24               6        24.00    24.00    24.00    24.00    24.00    24.00   144.00
Sut-Total                                                                               1160.00  1160.00  1160.00  1160.00  1160.00  1160.00  6960.00
...... ......... ...... ............  ................  ........... ...  ........... ......... ............. ....
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                          1934.33  2808.27  2911.14  2958.13  3002.28  3046.43  16660.61
Total                                                                                      15862.41  29608.67  10267.57  6283.60  5962.02  6026.17 74030.45
d1> Inct. 15-room hostel, admin. block, dining and kitchen facilities. S'ag.
<2 Addition of 15-ro  hostel.
43b Calculated at a rate of 10  of the investmrnt costs.
WW- Inct. coconut scrapers, sprintopper uch., crockery * cutlery. etc.
65> Calculated at a rate of 1X of the Investment costs.
46& Calculated at a rate of 10X of th investment costs.
03, Calculated at a rate of l5X of the investment costs.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 2/271992  11:36
on
o
0 



381 UJK
lamd  gricuttwat  cxtensin Preject
Tebte S. mumn evm Dowel0ewtoI
Detailed Cot Tabtl
Oumtity                       unit Cat                                  Se cot
unit  l1        1994  1995  1996  1997  1996 Tot       1993-96         1          1994      1995      1996       199?      196      Total
1. INWSIiUuT COSTS
a. FeLtch.4 Taw.*Long Ter
AG.Econ. & Ptavang Div. .1>  Person Month    24    24    24    21       0     0    96          66       2070.60   2070.60   2070.60   2070.60       0.00      0.00   6239
Agri. Remrch Dlv. 4b        Peson Month    48    48    48    48         0     0   192          86       4141.19   4141.19   4141.19   4141.19       0.00      0.00  16564.7S
Tech. Irwie- Extension 433,   Perso  Month    12    72    96    48      0     0   228          86       1035.30   6211.7?   628.39   4141.19        0.00      0.00  19670.6?
Tech, Tram.. Training 43>  PFe.sn  MoNth    36    60    48    24        0     0   168          66      3105.90   5176.49   4141.19   2070.60        0.00      0.00  14D94.16
Tech. Trans.-Mme  edia 4>3  Peron Month    24    48    60    48         0     0   180          86      2070.60   4141.19   5176.49   4141.19        0.00      0.00   15529.48
Ocp. of Export Agr.-Ext. 4<  Person Mnth    24    24    24    24        0     0    96          w6      2070.60   2070.60   207D.60   2070.60        0.00      0.00   623239
Animel P.nductIon           Parson Month    24    24      0      0      0     0    48          66       207.60   207.60        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00   4141.19
Controt of Pesticides       person Mnwth    24    24    10       0      0     0    Ss          86       207.60   ZVOo.60    862.75       o.oo       0.00      0.00   500.94
Seed Certification          Person Month    30    30    30    30       0      0   120          86      258.25   2588.25   2588.25   2588.25         0.00      0.00  10352.99
Ptant Protection            Persm Month    16    16    16    18         0     0    72          86       1552.95   1552.95   1552.95   1552.95       0.00      0.00   6211.79
at                                                                                          .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... .............. ..........
9. Follows.&    % Short-Tom                                                                                22776.57  32094.26  30686.41  22776.57       0.00      0.00  1065.80
Ag. Econ.  Pluming Div.    Person Month      5      5    10    10       0     0    30         174       S68.01    t68.01    1736.02   1736.02       0.00      0.00   5208.06
Aort. Reseech Olvision      Person Month    12    12      6      0      0     0    30         174       2083.22   2083.22   1041.61      0.00       0.00      0.00   520S.06
Tech. Trens.-Mess Media 45;  Parso  MNwth    6     2      0      0     0      0    10         174       13858.2    347.20      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00   1736.02
Tech. Trme. - Trafning S   perso  Monthd   10    10    10        0     0      0    30         174       1736.02   1736.02   1736.02      0.00       0.00      0.00   5208.06
Tec. Tref   .-Extenslon 45>   Peon  Month    20    20    24    24    12       0   100         174      3472.60    3472.04   4166.45   4166.45   2083.22       0.00  17360.19
Dep. af Export Ag. -Ext.    Person Month    10    10    10       0      0     0    30         174       1736.02   1736.02   1736.02      0.00       0.00      0.00   5208.06
Anifl Prod.& Neetth Dep.    Persn Mth        0    12    12       0      0     0    24         174         0.00   2083.22   2003.22       0.00       0.00      0.00   4166.45
Control of Pesteldes        Pe son Month     6     6      4      0      0     0    16         174       1041.61   1041.61    694.41      0.00       0.00      0.00   2777.63
Seed Certification          Person Mont     30    30    30    30        0     0   120         174       5208.06   5208.06   5206.06   5206.06       0.00      0.00  2032.23
Plant Protection            Person Month   l    1s    IS    la         0     0    72         174      3124.3   3124.83   3124.03   3124.03         0.00      0.00  12499.36
C. Lcal Training                                                                                          20658.63  217.00.24  21526.61  1423536   20e3.22        0.00    0S0.0
Famwer Trainng-Extan. 443   tuwp ear m                                                                    0.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00   1125.00
Training of EO,LOI, etc. 4   Mo.           1S50 150   150   150   150   150   900              4       600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00   3600.00
Frwr Trainino Ctase  .  7> No.             500   5C0   500   500   soO   5W   3000              1        500.00    500.00    soo.00    500.00    5w.00    500.00   3000.00
Farmr/Deattrs/MmIAg. 0l No.                  2     5      5      S     3      0    20          26        52.00    130.00    130.00    130.00       78.00      0.00    520.00
Farmer Develogment 9a       tau  u VA                                                                    80.00      80.00     80.00     80.00      80.00     80.00    480.00
Pant Priotection training   No.             so   100   100   100   100   10   550               2        100.00    200.00    20.00    200.00    200.00    20.00   1100.00
D. Field Dnatrations 4>                                                                                     1332.00   1735.00   1735.00   1735.00   1683.00   1605.00   965.00
Sloping Agr. Taciatoeg      no.             10    10    10    tO       0      0    40          14        140.00    140.00    140.00    140.00      0.00       0.00    560.00
Soil Conervation            lo.             IS    15    1s    is    10    10    8O              6        90.00      90.00     90.00     90.00      60.00     60.00    480.00
Mixed Cropping with SAC     No.             10    10    10    10        0     0    40          16        160.00    160.00    160.00    160.00       0.00      0.00    610.00
Intercp. Coconut & SAC      No.             10    10    10    10       0      0    40          1s       150.00    150.00    150.00    150.00       0.00       0.00    600.00
Sub-Total                                                                                         .....        ..........           ..........          ..........
540.00    540.00    540.00    540.00      60.00     60.00   2280.00
.......... .......... .......... .......... .................................................. ....................
4307.19  56069.49  S4688.04  39s26.92  3S26.22   1665.00 200642.68
Tot,ti                                                                                                                                                   m     i i
45307.19  56069.49  54686.04  39286.92   3626.22   1665.00 200S62.38
41> 48-sanths of PhM. Degr  ad 48-ont  %A l.30. Degree.
42* 192-mhntx of Ph.D. (Adaptive k Ae'h)
4& For Technotgy Trn. Div. 192-a s of PatO. ad 34-mnths of l.Se.                                                                                                                     A
e5 She  of 140 menth of sort-tem training. N
<6> Farmer training in 6 RTils a  FNTC, A'pr.a
7> Loecal Training for Dcp. of Export Aer. - Extimn Programme.
d> Local Training for thoe Dp. of A4r. Control of Pesticas SuboDivison.
494 Farmer training for the Anfit Proadction 0 Nealth Dep.                                                                                                                       0
410o Field Do_ntratfm org. by the Dap. of Exp. Ar.-Ext. Progrm.
Unit Cots Scated by 1000.0 4/2711M92 16:05



SRI LAWA
Second Agricultural Extesion Projet
_Sbe. Pilot Extawlon Progrm
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
Quantity        Unit Cost                 Base Costs
Unit 93-95 96-98 Total    1993-96      1993-94     1995  1996-9      Total
..... ....... ......  .........  ....... .............. .... .........
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Pilot Activities         lt          -    -    -                   6894.14  6893.13  6893.13 41360.80
B. Tehnical Assistance
Ext.Socfo.Spec.(For*imn) lup s_     1    0    3          364      363.75   363.75      0.00  1091.26
Ext. Soaio. Spec. (Localulwp sum    2    0    6           20       40.42    40.42      0.00   121.25
Sub-Total                                                          404.17   404.17      0.00  1212.51
Total INESTENIT COSTS                                                    7298.31   7297.30  6893.13  42573.31
-                     -s- _  # 
Total                                                                 7296.31   7297.30  6893.13 42573.31
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 2/27/1992  11:42
00
0
o
0l b



SRI LANKA
Second Agricultural Extension Project
Table 10. Natfonal Seed Policy Developuent
Detaoled Cost Table
RS
Quantity        Unit Cost           Base Costs           Base Costs in USS
=        _     _       = -        e=                =
Unit  1993 94-98 Total      1M93-98      1993 1994-98  Total      1993 94-98 Total
...........................  .........  ........... . ..... . .... ....   ------------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Technical Assistance n1
Seed Specialist (Foreign)   Person Month    3       0    3          379     1136.3    0.0  1136.3    25.6  0.0 25.6
Seed Specialist (Local)      Person Month     1    0      1          21      21.0    0.0   21.0        0.5  0.0  0.5
Sub-Total                                                                      157.3    0.0  1157.3    26.1  0.0 26.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              1157.3    0.0  1157.3    26.1   0.0 26.1
=  = == 
Total                                                                            1157.3    0.0  1157.3    26.1  0.0 26.1
1- Consultants to assist In drafting of the Seed Legislation.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/27/1992 11:49
.e >.
3a 



SRI LANMA
Second Agricultural Extension Project
Tabte 11. Project Manaement Unit
Detailed Cost Table
RS
Quantity           Unit Cost                Sase Costs
_m          mmm.zmmmmmm-
Unit  1993  1994 95-98 Total    1993-98        1993    1994  1995-98   Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Vehictes 
PA esier car                              0     1    0    1          642         0.0   841.7      0.0   841.7
2 WD Tuin Cob                             0    1    0    1           631         0.0   631.3      0.0   631.3
Sub-Total                                                                         0.0  1473.0      0.0  1473.0
B. EquIpment
Nicro Cowputer             No.            0    2    0    2           210         0.0   420.9      0.0   420.9
Printer Dot Matrix         No.            0     1    0    1           126        0.0   126.3      0.0   126.3
Sib-Total                                                                         0.0   54i        0.0   547.1
C. Contract Services
Studies                                     -        -    -            -         0.0   407.0   407.0  2034.8
... .....,.... ............ ................    ......... 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                   0.0  2427.0   407.0  4054.8
0%
11 RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Operations & Maintenance
Equipment 2>                              -    -    -    -             -         0.0    54.7    54.7   273.6
Vehicles c3,                              -    -    -                  -         0.0   230.2   230.2  1150.8
Sub-Total                                                                         0.0   284.9   284.9  1424.4
B. Operating Expenses
Ag.Ext.Com./Ag.Ex.Group <4'                          -    -            -       160.0   160.0   160.0   960.0
C. Rent of Office                             -    -    -    -             -        800.0   800.0   800.0  4800.0
0. Incremental Staff
Project Manager            Person Year    1    1    1    6            50        50.0    50.0    50.0   300.0
Project Adviser            Person Year    1    1    1    6            50        50.0    50.0    50.0   300.0
Procurement Officer        Person Year    1    1    1    6            45        45.0    45.0    45.0   270.0
Civil Engineer             Person Year    1    1    1    6            45        45.0    45.0    45.0   270.0
Training Coordinator       Person Year    1    1    1    6            45        45.0    45.0    45.0   270.0
Accounts Officer           Person Year    1    1    1    6            45        45.0    45.0    45.0   270.0
Other Support Staff        Person Year    3    3    3    18           23        69.0    69.0    69.0   414.0
Sub-Total                                                                       349.0   349.0   349.0  2094.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                 1309 .0  1593 .9  1593 .9  9278 4
zmmz  xmama  =mm
Total                                                                              1309.0  4020.9  2000.8  13333.2
<1) Funds for Monitoring and Evaluation and Specific Studies.
420 Calculated at a rate of 10X of the Investment costs.                                                                            o
'3o Calculated at a rate of 15X of the investment costs.                                                                            I.h
4> Operating expenditures.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 4/27/1992  11:51



SRI LANKA
Second AgriculturaL Extension Project
TabLe 12. NORTH AND EASTERN PROVICES
Detailed Cost Table
Rs
Quantity      Unit Cost                        Base Costs
_3      =            3Z33      _      : _        _     _     _      _     _
tint 93-98 Total      1993-98      1993-95      1996      1997      1998     Total
.... ... ... --- --- -  . ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...........
1. INVESThENT COSTS
................
A. Cviv L orks               No.       -              -          0.00  6718.95   6069.51   6069.51  18857.97
B. Equilpant                        -     -           -          0.00   3240.57  3240.57  3240.57  9721.71
C. Vehicles                         -     -           -          0.00   7575.36   7575.36   7575.36 22726.07
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              0.00  17534.87  16885.43  16885.43  51305.74
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Operations & Maintenance         -     -           -          0.00   5376.21   5376.21   5169.43  15921.85                             C
........ ............... ... .... .... ...... ......... .................. ......... .................. .........
Total ECURRENT COSTS                                                0.00   5376.21   5376.21   5169.43  15921.85
Total                                                            0.00  22911.08 22261.64  22054.87 67227.59
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaLed by 1000.0 2/27/1992 11:55
OQ
(D
0
oAlL



SRI LANKA
Secord Agricultural Extension Project
Financing Plan by Project Components
US,
IDA            Farmers         Goverrnment          Total                 Local
...........     ------..   ----.-----------------------------------. For.    (Exct.  Duties                           C%
AmDont     X      Amount     %     Amount      X    Amount       X      Exch.   Taxes)  & Tax.                        X-
A. Extension Services             14.07   78.45     0.18      1.02    3.68    20.53    17.93   97.90    9.34       6.09    2.50
B. Seed Legislation               0.03   100.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.03    0.15      0.03     0.00    0.00
C. Project Nanagement Unit        0.24   67.81      0.00    0.00    0.11    32.19    0.36    1.95         0.07    0.26    0.03
Total Disbursement                 14.34    78.28    0.18     1.00    3.80    20.73    18.32   100.00    9.44       6.35    2.53
........ ................. . ._. .. . ._. .. . .. ._. . . .. , .. . .. _ ___ .._____. _ . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 4/28/1992 11:56
3Q 
0
(D )



- 65 -                                             ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
SRI LANKA
Scnd Agricultural Extenfon Project
Sury  Account by Project Component
NS
Physical           Price
Project                 Continencis         Cantingmncies
zzeioo    Seed                               Ma _nt...................
Sorce    PoUYe          Unit     Total         X      Aauwt       2   AmX mt
1. tNWSiTEUT COSTS
....................
A. Civilt Works (Buildings)
1. Tech. Trwn. -Extension             10.53       0.00       0.00     10.53       5.00       0.53   16.17       1.70
2. Tech. Tran. - Training             34.60       0.00       0.00     34.60       5.00       1.73   21.14       7.32
3. Tech. Trae. 11  Ned-Com              4.34      0.00       0.00       4.34      5.00      .o22   13.90        0.60
4. Control of Postic..                  2.39      0.00       0.00       2.39      5.00       0.12    s.14       0.12
5. Plan Protection Sub-Div.           14.19       0.00       0.00      14.19      5.00       0.71    8.68       1.23
6. North & Eastem  Provicos            18.86      0.00       0.00      18.86      S.00       0.94   36.45       6.87
..................................................................................
Sub-totat                             84.92       0.00       0.00     84.92       5.00       4.25   21.02      17.85
1. Equipment
1. Tech. Tranf. - Extenion            11.83       0.00       0.00      11.83      5.00       0.59   16.n        1.98
2. Tech. Tranf.-Trafning              11.45       0.00       0.00      11.45      4.58       0.52   11.09       1.27
3. Tech. Tran. Naa-Commn.              9.30       0.00       0.00       9.30      5.00       0.47   11.67       1.09
4. Oept. of Exp. Aor.- Ext.             1.68      0.00       0.00       1.68      S.00       0.08    6.88       0.12
5. Plant Protection                    5.97       0.00       0.00       5.97      5.00       0.30   12.92       0.77
6. Control of Pesticides               0.73       0.00       0.00       0.73      S.00       0.04   12.99       0.09
T. Project Management Unit             0.00       0.00       O.SS       0.55      S.00       0.03   12.99       0.07
8. Animl Prod.4 Health Cop.            0.76       0.00       0.00       0.76      5.00       0.04    5.91       0.05
9. North 4 Eastem  Provices            9.72       0.00       0.00       9.72      5.00       0.49   33.06       3.21
............................................................... .  .- --  .  ..  .  .. .-  -  .. 
Sub-total                             51.4S       0.00       0.55     51.99       4.91       2.5S   16.63       8.6"
C. Vehicles
1. Tech. Traf. - Extanion             49.19       0.00       0.00     49.19       S.00       2.4     853        4.20
2. Tech. Trnsf.-Troining               6.77       0.00       0.00       6.77      5.00       0.34    8.99       0.61
3. Tech. Trans. Nasa-Comm.             2.62       0.00       0.00       2.62      5.00       0.13   12.73       0.33
4. Control of Psticidfe                 1.47      0.00       0.00       1.47      2.86       0.04    5.78       0.09
5. Plant Protection                    6.42       0.00       0.00      6.42       5.00       0.32   14.39       0.92
6. Project Management Unit             0.00       0.00       1.47       1.47      S.00       0.07   12.99       0.19
7. Dop. of Export Agr.                 6.63       0.00       0.00      6.63       5.00       0.33    5.91       0.39
8.  niml Prod.& Health Cop.             7.10      0.00       0.00       7.10      5.00       0.36    8.27       0.59
9. North & Entern Provfces            22.73       0.00       0.00     22.73       5.00       1.14   33.06       7.51
......................  ..... ............................     .    . .. .. .      . .......  -   -.........- --   - ... 
Sub-totel                            102.93       0.00       1.47    104.40       4.97       5.19   14.21      14.83
0. T.A. (Proj.Iopl.support)
1. Toch.Trow. Div.-Training            4.55       0.00       0.00      4.55       5.00       0.23    5.91       0.27
2. Pilot Extlenon Progrm                1.21      0.00       0.00       1.21      5.00       0.06   13.69       0.17
3. Seed Logistation                    0.00       1.16        ).00      1.16      5.00       0.06    5.91       0.07
........................... .................................................. .---........... S--.-@e.--.........        
Subtotal                               5.76       1.16       0.00      6.92       5.00       0.35    7.27       0.50
E. Fetlosihips   Training
1. Tech. Trof. - Extesion             37.03       0.00       0.00     37.03       5.00       1.85   18.68       6.92
2. Tech. Trwaf.-Trainfng              20.83       0.00       0.00     20.83       5.00       1.04   15.63       3.25
3. Tech. Tram. Ms-Comm.               17.27       0.00       0.00      17.27      5.00       0.86   16.9f       2.93
4. Dept. of Exp. Agr.- Ext.           22.37       0.00       0.00      22.37      S.00       1.12   18.68       4.18
5. Control Pestfeidis                  9.40       0.00       0.00      9.40       5.00       0.47   14.11       1.33
6. Agr. Resarch Division              21.77       0.00       0.00      21.77      5.00       1.09   15.23       3.32
7. Agr. Economic ad  Pltailg          13.49       0.00       0.00      13.49      5.00       0.67   17.27       2.33
8. Animl  Prod.& Health DGp.            8.79      0.00       0.00       8.79      5.00       0.44   13.73       1.21
9. Seed CertificatIon                  31.19      0.00       0.00      31.19      S.00       1.56   16.38       5.11
10. Plant Protection                    18.71      0.00       0.00      18.71      5.00       0.94   16.38       3.06
...................... ........................................ ....................
Sub-total                            200.84       0.00       0.00    200.84       5.00      10.04   16.74      33.63
F. Contract Servfces
1. TTD-m     t Media Comnic.           11.60      0.00       0.00      11.60      S.00       0.58   26.27       3.05
2. Dop. of Exp. Ag. - Exton.           13.43      0.00       0.00      13.43      5.00       0.67   23.41       3.14
3. Animl Product.   N Health           34.84      0.00       0.00      34.84      5.00       1.74   21.24       7.40
4. Project NInegement Unit              0.00      0.00       2.03       2.03      5.00       0.10   28.79       0.59
.............................. ...................................................... ..............
Iub-total                             s9.86       0.00       2.03     61.90       5.00       3.09   22.90      14.18
0. Pilot Extanfon                      41.36       0.00       0.00     41.36       5.00       2.07   25.25      10.44
............................................... .............................................................................................
Total INVSTMENT COSTS                 547.12       1.16       4.05    552.33       4.99      27.54   18.12    100.08
It. RECRRENT COSTS
...................
A. Inc. *tf. Sal. and  01t             14.23       0.00       9.28    153.51       0.58       0.89   25.48      39.11
S. Contract ServIes                      0.95      0.00       0.00       O.95      0.00       0.00   13.21       0.13
............................................................. ...................................................................... .....
Total RECMINT COSTS                    145.18      0.00       9.28    154.46       0.58       0.89   25.40      39.24
Total  AELINE COSTS                   692.30       1.16      13.33    706.79       4.02      28.43   19.71    139.32
Phsical Contingenci                  27.78       0.06       0.60     28.43
Price Continncisn                    136.00      0.07       3.25    139.32       3.58       4.98
Total PROECT COSTS                    856.08       1.28      17.18    874.54       3.82      33.41   15.93    139.32
Tae                                 119.37       0.00       1.47    120.83       3.71       4.48
Foreign Exchange                    44.23        1.28       3.18    448.70       4.29      19.25
................................................................................................................
Values  caltd by 1000000.0  4/28/1i2  11:55



- 66 -
ASNMM 6
Page 3 of 3
SRI  AK
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year          Semester          DPsbursemp=s               DLburwments
.____ ___ ------US$ -------------------
1993                  I                     0.0                       0.0
II                     0.4                       0.4
1994                  I                     0.4                       0.8
II                     0.6                       1.4
1995                  I                      1.1                      2.5
II                     1.2                       3.7
1996                  I                      1.1                      4.8
-I                     1.2                       6.0
1997                  I                      1.1                      7.1
II                     1.2                       8.3
1998                  I                      1.1                      9.4
II                     1.2                      10.6
1999                  I                      1.1                     11.7
II                     1.2                      12.9
2000                  I                      1.4                     14.3



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
SRI  AK
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimate Armual Contractual and Other Payments
Pro1ect Year              Total
Project Element    Pre-Project      1      2    3    4    5    6    Payment Remarks
Loan Timing
Works
Building                             .3   .9   .3   .3   .2  .2         2.2   LCB
Goods
Equipment, Transportation          1.2  .8  .1  .2   .2   .1            2.6   ICB/LCL/Other
Agriculture (tractors & Lab)         .2  .2   .1   .1                    .6
Data Processing (Computers)          .2   .2   .1   .1                   .6
Educational Training Material             .1   .1                        .2
Consultancies
Technical Assistance                 .2                                  .2   Other
Training
Fellowships (Overseas)             1.0  1.5  1.5    4   *4              4.8   Other
Local Training                            .15  .15                        .3  Other
Contract Services
Mass Media                           .2  .5   .3   .3   .3              1.6   LCB/Other
Private Pilot Extension              .2   .2   .2   .2  .2   .1         1.1  Other
Studies                                        .1                        .1  Other
Miscellaneous
Inc. Staff Salaries & Oper. Cost   .4   .6   .6   .8   .8   .8          4.0   Other
Totals                             3.9  5.1  3.6  2.4  2.1  1.2        18.3
(IDA-Financed)                     3.1  4.0  2.8  1.9  1.6  0.9        14.3



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
SRILAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION FOR THE
INTRODUCTION OF THE PILOT EXTENSION PROGRAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE CONSULTANTS
1.    Obiective
The consultants would assist the Agricultural Extension Committee
in identifying practical organizational and institutional arrangements
and support for agricultural extension in Sri Lanka. While the emphasis
is on alternatives, i.e., alternatives to the "normative" governmental
MADR/DOA arrangements, these alternatives should be viewed as options
that can be complementary and symbiotic vis-a-vis the extension function
currently resting with the GOSL.
2.    Background
Regular civil servants depend on their length of service and the
views of their superiors with respect to their careers, i.e., their
promotions and postings. That is true the world over and it is true
for extension cadre in Sri Lanka. Under those circumstances, there is
very little linkage between the performance and quality of service
provided by agricultural extension officers and their clients (the
farmers in the area of their responsibility). The Plan of Action will
identify practical ways, based on Sri Lankan traditions and practices,
but not bounded by them either, in which alternative institutional and
organizational arrangements can better link the well being of extension
cadre, their performance and the views of the clients. In short, to
improve the accountability linkage between extension and farmers.
Government budgets are always stretched. The budget for
agricultural extension in Sri Lanka is no exception with most of the
available resources going to pay salaries. Consequently, there is
little left to meet the needs of extension agents for travel, materials
and supplies for demonstrations, etc. The Plan of Action will seek to
identify ways in which the farmer resources can, in conjunction with
GOSL resources, be mobilized for support of extension.



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
Agriculture is Sri Lanka is extremely heterogeneous as are the Sri
Lankan farmers. Agro-ecological niches are varied, complex and many, as
are the varied and many needs of farmers. Agricultural extension is
essentially a service that expands the knowledge and skills of farmers,
which in turn empowers them to better deal with their problems or meet
new opportunities. In that context and because of the heterogeneity of
agriculture and farmers, centrally administered extension has an extreme
difficulty in being relevant and responsive to the varied needs of
farmers. The Plan of Action will aim at identifying institutional and
organizational arrangements that promote and/or enhance a more demand-
driven extension service.
Agricultural extension has been "provided to" farmers as something
not so much demanded by them, but "given to them" by the government.
For good reasons, but an out growth of this approach is that there is a
lack of "ownership" by the clients in the service that is suppose to be
for their benefit. The Plan of Action will seek arrangements that
promote sense of "ownership" in extension and empower clients with
"drawing rights" on extension because instead of a "government provided"
service, it is their service.
3.    ScQp of Wok
(a)   The Plan of Action would identify alternatives for agricultural
extension that:
(i)   Link performance and the well-being of extension agents to
the view of clients;
(ii)  Mobilize farmer support for agricultural extension;
(iii) Are demand driven, i.e., extension that is relevant and
responsive to the needs of farmers as they define their
needs for new knowledge and skills (activities within the
realm of what extension can reasonably do); and
(iv)  Give ownership and drawing rights to the clients of
extension, the farmer.
(b)   The Plan of Action would review and build on various experiences
in rural Sri Lanka, as well as from outside that are deemed
workable with appropriate "adjustments." These experiences should
include government and non government, public and private sectors
as well as local, informal community based organizations.



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
(c)   The Plan of Action should identify:
(i)   Center/local cost-sharing partnerships.  For example,
extension agents might be hired by a local governmental unit
or farmer group/association, but the center would reimburse
the local group for a proportion of the costs.
(ii) Contracting arrangements by/with professional "advisory"
services such as those supported by the Bank in Chile/ to
provide a specified area, or to a specified kind of farmer
and/or a specific commodity. These arrangements might be
made by the MADR itself and/or by local level units of
government or farmer organizations/associations.
(iii) Local/Center/NGO partnerships or cost-sharing arrangements.
(d)   Other
(i)   The Plan of Action should pay particular attention to, but
not be limited to work done by the Agrarian Services and
Training Institute and the Post Graduate Institute of
Agriculture.
(ii) Valuable lessons can be learned from traditional village
irrigation systems in which village level arrangements have
for long periods of time handled the management, operation
and upkeep of irrigation tanks/systems. These arrangements
should be reviewed for relevancy. Traditional credit
societies, burial societies, etc., to the extent they may be
relevant, may be other kinds of arrangements that should be
used as reference experiences.
4. The ReRort
(a)   The report would provide a description of relevant experiences in
Sri Lanka and abroad as appropriate.
(b)   The report should identify alternative options for pilot
implementation, recognizing that there is not likely to be "one"
answer. The report must lay out the details of organizational and
institutional arrangements, identifying who is responsible for
what and identifying particular bodies, individuals and/or
officials who would need to take action.
.1/   "Second Agricultural Credit Project:  Project Performance Audlt Report"
(No. 7302). Chile. June 22, 1988.



- 71 -
ANNE9 a
Page 4 of 4
(c)   The report should identify areas in which pilot testing should
take place, the breath of the pilot area and length of time
(years) pilot testing should be run.
(d)   The report, including the Plan of Action satisfactory to IDA,
would be completed by June 30, 1993.
5.    Consultants Required
Senior Consultant (3 Person-Months)
The senior consultant should have a broad range of international
experience, particularly with farmers, and demand driven agricultural
services at the village level. Preferably the person should have had
prior experience in Sri Lanka and working knowledge in Sinhala would be
extremely helpful.
The consultant should have agricultural, agricultural economics,
anthropology and/or rural sociology background with preferably a Ph.D.
in one of those areas. The consultant should have 10 to 15 years of
fairly broad-based experience in agriculture in developing countries,
particularly with respect to institutional arrangements concerning
agricultural extension and research.
The three person-months of consultancies should be split into two
separate trips. Five weeks at an early stage and overlapping with local
consultants, and seven weeks at the end.
Local Consultant (6 Person-Months)
The local consultant should have at least 10 to 15 years of
experience with rural Sri Lanka via research, community organizing,
farmer organization, and/or agricultural extension.
The consultant should have a Ph.D. in extension, sociology,
anthropology, and/or agricultural economics.



- 72 -
ANNE 9
SRI   NK
SECOND AGRICULTURAL E$TENSION PROJECT
Related Documents in Proiect File
1.        Sri Lanka, Integrated Agricultural Support Services Project,
Initial Preparation Report, FAO, February 1990.
2.        Sri Lanka, Agricultural Support Services Project, Preparation
Report, FAO, February 1991.
3.        Agricultural Extension Rationalization Study, Draft Final Report,
ULG, June 1991.
4.        Sri Lanka, Agricultural Extension, Division of Responsibilities
between the Center and the Provinces and the Relevant Sector Ministries and
the Provincial Administration regarding the Provision of Support Services,
NADR, October 31, 1991
5.        Sri Lanka, Census of Agriculture, 1982.  Small Holding Sector.
6.        Sri Lanka, Census of Agriculture, 1982.  Estate Sector.
7.        Sri Lanka, Department of Agriculture, Peradenya - 1990.  Crop
Recommendations for Adoption in Gram Niladari Divisions of Sri Lanka.
Agrotechnical Information.



IBRD 23349R
z- 02 ~~~~~~~~SRI LNKAi
9            X~~~SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
/  ()   o    >   >  >X4>                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
|     /   JA FF 2A;a:ebn!>/t*<                        {>  ~~~~~~~~RESEARCH STATIONS
'  &_ i 1 .[> ] . 1,. C1 r;! _/  X                    < ,1 ~~RESEARCH STATIONS AND
\, d r~~~~~~~~~~~~ J s ~~~~~~ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
\ / r! ~~~M UL LA IT I VU                           ,                ..... ;..\.*ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
| __ > f Ct\ @~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
, < / NgO R Br  f iR H             E  Al.- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
91            *- VAVUNIYA  r                               ,--PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   .
t  MANNAR  j   <-     %       '>       - -~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
,)  r--~~~~~~~~ .     .      \ ~~~~~~~'Di6t ict Boun tJies azre those
%e,s,, ,,,, 4 \ . , , 2 E \ ~~~~~~~~~~~used'in 1981 dcensus.
r'S_,{       o                              NCOMA,1
\ J  z    N OR rE                r           NA~~~~~~ C~
1 j   t       ~ANURADHAPURA                                     Hu TRNOAE  f a,c
KalpitlyaR       C.                               E' Nu~ rr  _. AV ISl
l PUTTALAM                                   POLONNARU|WA
\ N  ORrH                                 ^-               BATTICALOAX
\ / KURUNEGALA \-Ir-.      
(    'E SrE RN    jMATALE                            E A SR N 
G                                       .j .........
CGAMPAHA       KEJ L     . '                                       AMPARAI  8ele 
\'   Y   } KEGA>LLAt  >    $      BADULLA                                   7 *_ 
J cCt>> Q fm "^ NUWARA':   ..^C;'.'>g. 
\    >°Ft'n''9ee/g-t ELIYA            .,d  ,..      F* 
f   t.,\  C    ;        2   %    }    ~MONERAGALA     
KALUTARA   : RAT NAPU RA          /       vtt
Kolu  F-I X]                       
elentoto5  _    5                         I.S                      , 
9    ALLE  °C     d f          -.-HAMBANTOTA_/-     
9bN8--'s iMATARAR3 tj 2;;) ^_ ' ~~INDIA 9
6-  0    10   20   30 MLEs.O?.aSs, _n-6 Whdf- >sc  
O 020  30 40  30 KILOP1ETERS e J,iL
~~ <                                  81-  schumdr_.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 199; 



SRI LANKA
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL REGIONS                                                           1_D  _4076R2
W0~                                                                               82'        __________________                                       DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
X  3P 9   o,4h wael  1-                                         c|    AGR0 - ECOLOGICAL |IMONTHLY HISTOGRAMS   75% EXPECTANCY
- ALo t9 A g..sEcMqJaI R~I... Boom                                  z       AGRC - -ECOLOICAL             OF 75%             VALUE OF                753 EXPECTANCY
DIWo lso.Wl.                                                                                                 OF ~~~~~~~         ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRYNESS  MAJOR 50. OROJPJ  TERiRAIN.
DiewA, h~~~~~~~~~,e.s..                     C~~~~~~~  REGION &SYMBOL         RAINFALL PROBARILITY      ANNUAL             FOR PARTICULAR MONTHS
1-  . 1 i1nt.,o.sa ,@                                                                              FOR RESPECTIVE REGIONS    RA NFALL i- 
I,..      O~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 60                       L~~~~~~~~~~AN  FEE MAl MAI JU AULGL SEPI
tWu,                 J                                >125FFLOLLLoo.,o,0ou.'
06 
EL                                                                                                                              '6BO S > ~  WM  2 3 O 1  >  55  JS F WS @  0  + |  X  a  h ar°a-v YL*IOK; C  w  BrODr  SlSec G  SwcEec. r W I
N-  ~~~~~~~LLL  ~~~~~~~~F'~~~~~F~~~~FJS.,                                                                                                                                                                                    ML~~~~~~~-  M
i5WM 3         1, J        L ... L 0            >              L  F           O   0LF '          L Lom l . a      , Y, i c M Lr,
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                                f      L .         .       ,            MI Yo, FLOO0,MAILS ',00" ' 0LLLLOL.LI
|1  W t  w (   / t   4   °   }0   2r0   30   40   50  60  Z   W L  I , 7 - |   6        > 1 0 0      J "   F                S   o   w  |   re Y z -F isoL    00  60,   AL  LOL  C
KILOMETERS  -1   ~          ~         ~          ~          >5           UFOM LOLLLLOKl  OE-EL0EFLILM.L,
WL                     A> 75 F_ Y. _-
W 2   tf  9   ]   (   //  |  Z  W  L 3 &4       > 6 ¢  T  >   50 Jw4-K'M .                         PlM   F           1      ELL    n_LqL        ;
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LE,FFY 0OMLLF - -F~L L.L '-t~t_      
..L0EOEFERS              M.                                                     ATOD         jL,. -                              :    0:.   'oooo ......M......EL.>..  F ...  : 00L.Y,".FL
i U?!   /2                                                z       y    >            |               t 3  o  T > 45  j   F ws  iv i Jun JlJl AM%bp FR-Y. I.. 1-iM.o.o 16   d  A F OLLLLL'I
-    C   F   A   rN r.                                                                                  O  /  /  _   u  DLO-F  1  oL    MEl  ,   23   z F .u w 1A.A.   OL  C4_Fol'0ebnowaTio 4   DL3  F   Y.
{_S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L0                                                                        _ *U ;3~     __ =  ______            rA        -         FDLs             0         tITm LELL                         0 > 0  JF  *JA q l 1.  L'_scl oaSlda 
o                        ILG
I                                       >45            EI F      EJ             A.;I1,E -.         E-        IIC  -
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 4-                                                                              >3 87,  Ir   l_rr . - Lill.              n1f140 A.lltott~t                               OCbpE ul,-
N D  A N                                                                                z~~~~~~~~~~~~ 66MB  N  1   DL                                                                                    EM.Ill  Al0-All A
DL  ~ ~~~~L>23                                          JOp AA . F   JL J,1 A.  06 iiEIL6IiLIL0.EEOL,
_ _ _   1 FF                                            All
0 DL ,t ~   j1j1          :        -               > 4 20L                K   MF   o   Jill    A. OEW E0M,,,.MIL EU.LO                  L F , L
[6' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~9L                                                   j~.                                      3                     OMNJnLI00.                  I28LLEL.00,EooO.,
Mill w VA. U. N-i_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ArKill ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~D1~~>3                                                                                  LI       L    O  L6A  00.            ,NLLFEM4FL0L,AE  L
VA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                                                                           OEM LOFKL .JFEo,FMILL
DL2  I I      >35                   I    Mv  -      OLLE   1.M  OF2000LLFOM   6OELL2EJ0606EF0LOMM.FLLLO,I.LLEFOL TA &EP  19



