Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2380 CE
              (Second Agricultural Extension Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 17, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2380 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Special Account" means the
account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
Page  3
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2002 and ending May 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project  in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  4
            (i)   have records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts, financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Associa-
                  tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                  diture submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal con-
                  trols involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the division of responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association is in effect, with regard to the agriculture sector
between the center and the Provincial Councils, and with regard to
agricultural extension between the Provincial Ministries of
Agriculture and Provincial Administrations;
      (b)   the agricultural extension committee referred to in Part
1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established;
      (c)   the project management unit referred to in Part 2 (a) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established;
      (d)   the manager, civil engineer and account officer of the
project management unit referred to in Part 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement have been appointed; and
Page  5
      (e)   architects referred to in Part 2 (c) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement have been employed.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  SECMINFIN                  FINMIN  21409
                  Colombo                    FORAID  21232
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                        By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  6
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works               1,250,000       85%
(2)   Materials,                1,540,000       100% of foreign
      vehicles,                                 expenditures,
      equipment and                             100% of local
      supplies                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3)   Consultants'              3,520,000       100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Services under              590,000       80%
      Part A.6 of
      the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Incremental             1,690,000         90% of expendi-
      operating                                 tures incurred
      costs                                     until December 31,
                                                1993, 70% of
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred until
                                                December 31, 1996,
                                                and 50% of expen-
                                                ditures incurred
                                                thereafter
(6)   Media services             880,000        80%
(7)   Unallocated              1,030,000
           TOTAL              10,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" includes
additional staff, vehicle and office operation and maintenance
costs; and
      (d)   the term "media services" includes advertisement and
Page  7
publicity services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
       (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not to exceed SDR 185,000 may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1992; and
       (b)  in respect of expenditures in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces unless and until:
            (i)    on-site appraisal has been completed to the
                   satisfaction of the Association of all relevant
                   parts of the Project; and
            (ii)   implementation arrangements satisfactory to the
                   Association have been made.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to increase farmers' income
and agricultural production by improving farm productivity through,
inter alia, promotion of innovative technology.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Extension
1.    Integration of agricultural extension services.
2.    Improved use of mass media communications in agricultural
extension.
3.    Improvements in plant protection, quarantine and pest control.
4.    Enhancement of the safe and effective use of pesticides.
5.    Training of agricultural extension staff.
6.    Introduction of a pilot program for the provision of agri-
cultural extension services by private sector entities.
Part B:     Seed Policy
      Preparation and implementation of a national seed policy.
Part C:     Implementation
      Establishment of a unit for the carrying out of the activities
described under Parts A and B above.
                         *           *          *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
Page  8
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for media services, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,600,000, may be awarded under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association; or for contracts
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 or less each
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for goods and media services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  9
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants,
including legal consultants, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a
committee on agricultural extension with membership, responsilibi-
ties and resources satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish and thereafter maintain a project management
unit to manage and implement activities under the Project with
staff, responsibilties and resources satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;
      (b)   no later than December 31, 1992, appoint to, and
thereafter maintain in, such unit persons with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association for the positions of
manager, adviser, civil engineer, procurement officer, training
coordinator, and account officer; and
      (c)   employ in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement architects for the unit.
3.    The Borrower shall, in order to assist in implementation of
the Project, employ in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement:
      (a)   by December 31, 1992 a specialist in organizational
development; and
      (b)   by December 31, 1992 a specialist in extension.
4.    The Borrower shall by December 31, 1992 establish and
thereafter maintain a project coordination commmittee to coordinate
activities under the Project with membership, responsibilities and
resources satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall maintain the working group on national
agricultural extension with membership, responsibilities and
resources satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1993 furnish to the Associa-
tion for review a human resources development plan for agricultural
extension.
7.    The Borrower shall formulate a plan of action including a
timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for improving agricul-
tural extension services and implement such plan in accordance with
such timetable.
Page  10
8.    The Borrower shall cause about 65% of the aggregate cost of
contracts for activities under Part A.2 of the Project to be awarded
to private sector.
9.    For purposes of carrying out Part A.6 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   by June 30, 1993 provide to the Association a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Association, for the introduction of the
pilot program under such Part; and
      (b)   implement such plan in accordance with arrangements
satisfactory to the Association which shall include, inter alia,
provision relating to contribution by the beneficiaries of the
extension services rendered by private sector entities under such
program, such contribution to gradually increase over a period of
three years to a level of at least 20 percent of the cost of such
services.
10.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by June 30, 1993 formulate a national seed policy,
satisfactory to the Association, referred to in Part B of the
Project; and
      (b)   by June 30, 1994 adopt measures, satisfactory to the
Association, to implement such policy.
11.   The Borrower shall by June 30, 1993 and by each June 30
thereafter, furnish to the Association for comments a program of
activities related to the Project for the following year.
12.   The Borrower shall by June 30, 1995 conduct a comprehensive
mid-term review with the Association with regard to actions taken
pursuant to the carrying out of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Page  11
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  12
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
