Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2465-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 7, 1979
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                     January 1979
Currency Unit        =         Portuguese Escudos (Esc.)            Esc.
US1        -          43.9 Esc.                            46.7 Esc.
lEsc.       =          $0.023                               $0.021
(Floating Exchange Rate)
Exchange Rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report:    US$1 = 45.0 Esc.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CP       =        Companhia Portuguesa dos Caminhos de Ferro
(Portuguese Railways)
EC       =        European Communities
EFTA     =        European Free Trade Association
EIB      =        European Investment Bank
JAE      =       Junta Autonoma de Estradas (Highway Authority)
MPW      3        Ministry of Housing and Public Works
MTC      =        Ministry of Transport and Communications
TAP      =       Transportes Aereos Portugueses (Portuguese Airlines)
WHO      =        World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Portugal
Amount:            $40 million equivalent
Terms:             Fifteen years including 3 years grace at 7.90 percent per
annum.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would extend the pilot highway reha-
bilitation program initiated under the First Highway Project
to Portugal as a whole; a significant number of highways
have deteriorated to the point where they need recondition-
ing to make it possible to maintain them with a reasonable
amount of maintenance effort. Many of the roads are now in
such poor structural condition that even with intensive and
expensive maintenance they will break up under present
traffic loads unless rehabilitation is expeditiously carried
out. Thus, the project aims not only at lowering transport
costs throughout Portugal, but at reducing maintenance costs
and protecting investments in highway infrastructure. The
project would also include a training and fellowship compo-
nent. The benefits from the project will accrue to the
economy of Portugal as a whole. The project faces no
special project related risk.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
------- $ millions -------
Road Rehabilitation              50.9        27.0        77.9
Engineering                       1.8         0.2         2.0
Training and Fellowships          0.9         0.4         1.3
Physical Contingencies            5.4         2.7         8.1
Price Escalation                 16.4         9.0        25.4
Total                        75.4        39.3      114.7
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
…--- $ millions 
Bank Loan                         0.7        39.3        40.0
Government                       74.7          -         74.7
Total                        75.4        39.3      114.7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                              $ Millions
Disbursements:      Bank FY         1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Annual           0.5       3.5       8.3      15.7      12.0
Cumulative       0.5       4.0      12.3      28.0      40.0
Rate of Return:       Minimum of 12 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2300-PO of April 30, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of $40.0 million to help
finance a highway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 7.90 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
political and economic systems were radically transformed. The colonies were
given their independence. There was movement towards a representative politi-
cal system which became a reality in mid-1976. There was nationalization of
the banks, insurance companies, power companies, major transportation agencies
and the large industrial groups. A comprehensive land reform was carried out
in the central and southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was
legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and
restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled.
Unemployment and social security benefits were increased. This was a very
different Portugal from two years earlier. There was a new relationship
between management and labor, and at first there was lack of discipline,
absenteeism and reduced productivity. Perhaps most important of all for the
longer term, the revolution created expectations of a substantial increase in
consumption. Such an increase did indeed take place initially, financed in
large part through the substantial foreign exchange reserves which had been
accumulated before 1974. During 1976 and 1977 there was an increasing aware-
ness that such growth of consumption could not be maintained without seriously
prejudicing the country's medium-term growth. The governments which have held
office since the elections of 19i6 have had the unenviable task of persuading
the population to accept stagnant or declining levels of real consumption.
4.        In terms of the world economy and its impact on the domestic situa-
tion, the Portuguese revolution could not have found a time more likely
to complicate the adjustment and impede future growth than April 1974. The
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Modernization Loan, which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 21, 1978.



- 2 -
oil rice increase brought with it a substantial worsening of the country's
terms of trade, while the economic downturn in Western Europe meant the
slackening of demand for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and,
perhaps most serious of all, the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese
workers. The Portuguese labor force in Western Europe had risen to 745,000 by
1973. Combined with the growing colonial army this had meant very low levels
of open unemployment in Portugal. After 1974 the increase in the labor force
could no longer be absorbed by other European economies. To this was added
the once and for all impact of demobilization and the return of about 500,000
people from the colonies. At present about 350,000, or about 8 percent of the
labor force, are unemployed, although there is widespread underemployment.
5.        This is the background against which the management of the Portuguese
economy in the years since the revolution must be viewed. In trying to des-
cribe the events of that period one is faced with the problem of portraying
sequentially a series of simultaneous adjustments. One should not however
infer a chain of causality from this. The convenient starting point is the
rapid increase in money wages which took place after the revolution. Sharp
increases in money wages combined with loss of productivity in many enter-
prises as labor relations deteriorated. The take-over of industrial and
commercial enterprises and farms was often associated with an initial loss of
production. In addition demand was sluggish for enterprises producing for
export or for domestic middle and upper-middle class consumption. The conse-
querce was that a large number of firms were in severe financial difficulties
and the government, rather than risk a spate of bankruptcies with associated
unemployment, used the nationalized banking system to provide liberal credit
facilities to these firms. The fiscal system was also used to provide direct
sli-idies to public enter-rises and to subsidize basic food items.
',.       The evidence is that, by end 1977, real consumption per capita rose
by about 10 percent over the 1973 level. In the context of virtually stag-
nant CDP per capita over the period (i.e. it kept pace with the 10 percent
increase in resident population which was due to returnees from the colonies
and natural growth in population, not compensated by emigration as in the
past), the increase in consumption was at the expense of domestic savings.
The increase in demand did not have a major impact on production in the
short-run for a number of reasons. First, Portugal's structure of production
did not fit the new structure of demand, which was oriented towards items of
lower middle-class and working class consumption. Second, even in industries
operating at full capa ity, entrepreneurs were reluctant to invest when such
investment meant hiring additional labor. Third, with the increase in popula-
tion came a proportionate increase in demand for food products, most of which
had to be imported because of sluggish agricultural growth. Fourth, the
availability of foreign exchange constituted a constraint for domestic produc-
tion, as restrictions were placed on the import of certain intermediate goods
at various points in time. As a consequence of these factors, much of the
increase in demand showed up in the 23 percent per annum average rate of
inflation and/or in the increasing trade deficit.



7.         The expansion of domestic demand put severe pressure on the balance
of payments, which gradually began to loom as the dominant feature in the
economic policy mix. Portugal's export receipts (both goods and non-factor
services such as tourism earnings) fell by about 30 percent in real terms
between 1973 and 1975. There was a combination of factors which led to
this; the loss of the colonial markets, the recession in Western Europe, the
deterioration in Portugal's competitive position, lower production in some
industrial enterprises, and the diversion of some production to meet the
expansion in domestic demand. In addition there was a severe terms of trade
loss. As a consequence, the current account surplus of $348 million in 1973
turned to a deficit of $817 million in 1975, $1.25 billion in 1976 and $1.5
billion in 1977. It should be noted that it was the decline in exports and
the terms of trade loss which produced this effect, rather than any sharp in-
crease in imports which were only 6 percent above the 1973 level in real terms
by 1977. Sustaining deficits of this magnitude has meant the depletion of
Portugal's previously ample foreign currency reserves, and substantial borrow-
ing against its gold reserves.
8.        The task that successive governments in Portugal have faced is that
of reducing domestic demand and imports and increasing savings and exports.
There has been little or no disagreement on the need for such measures--the
art has lain in stabilizing at a pace which is politically realistic. It
should be recognized that the prevailing conditions in the country, especially
for the first two years after the revolution, were not conducive to achieving
quick results. However, efforts in the right direction were initiated by the
first elected government of Portugal, but conditions remained difficult--the
expectations of the population were still high, and the principal sectors of
the economy were under the lingering effects of the radical political and
social changes of 1974 and 1975 (paras. 3 and 4). Numerous measures have been
introduced to reduce consumption--higher taxes, ceilings on increases in real
wages, rise in utility prices, reduction of price subsidies and relaxation of
price controls, etc.--but governments have not found themselves able to deny
to enterprises and agricultural cooperatives access to credit at levels which
have sustained the rate of employment, and which have largely negated the cuts
in other areas. Various direct methods have been used to try to improve the
balance of payments--depreciation of the escudo (by 62 percent between end
1973 and end 1977), surcharges on imports, interest rate subsidies for exports,
etc.--but again these have had limited impact in the face of buoyant domestic
demand.  Obviously deficits at the 1977 level could not be continued.  The IMF
diagnosed the need for even more stringency, and in mid-1978, agreement was
reached on a stabilization program aimed at bringing the deficit down to $1
billion in the 12 months ending April 1979. This implied smaller GDP growth
than in the previous two years and the shaking out of the less efficient units
in the manufacturing sector as well, with some consequent increase in unemploy-
ment. The estimates for 1978 now indicate that the current account deficit
was about $940 million and the GDP growth about 3.8 percent. The measures
taken to achieve this included a 6.5 percent devaluation and the continuation
of the crawling peg depreciation of the escudo over the period, and a 3 to 4
percentage point rise in interest rates. The evidence indicates that these
measures have been particularly effective in reducing the very high rate of
expansion of stocks of imported goods in 1977 which was brought about by the
expectation of further devaluation and the substantially negative level of



- 4 -
rea  lteresL rates.  The ineasures also resulted i  a 2(C pcr-cEnt increase in
the  lstue of merchandise exports and a rise of about 40 percent in tourism
earnings and workers' remittances in 1978, as compared with 1977.
9.        The large current account deficit of the past four years are in one
sense a function of the decline in the savings rate, but can also be looked at
as a consequence of maintaining the level of investment at around 20 percent
of GDP, in spite of the savings decline. A high level of investment is cru-
cial to Portugal in the long run and ordinarily the maintenance of this level
during a difficult period such as the past four years would be a cause for
satisfaction. The composition of investment is disturbing however. Of net
fixed investment a large proportion is construction not related to industrial
expansion; some of this has been for the Sines port and new town. Much of the
rest of the investment is related to the heavy industry which is being located
at Sines.
10.       If the Portuguese economy is to support even a modest growth in
private consumption in the medium-term and come to terms with the very serious
unemployment problem, increased investment and output will be necessary in two
major areas: export-oriented manufacturing and agriculture. The restructur-
ing of the Portuguese economy requires a vast improvement in agricultural pro-
ductivity and the rapid recovery and expansion of exports. The investments
whiji- havc been undertaken in the past four years have not for the most part
cont-ributed much to the achievement of these objectives. The stabilization
progra , which ended in April 1979, will only have an impact on improving
Portugal's ling-term prospects to the extent that increased public savings can
b: built into the fiscal system, and insofar as the composition of public
i- estmnent addresses important structural problems. Through its stabilization
jram jrtugal is buyi. _ time till both private and public sectors have the
con-irence to invest in ,  capacity for export and till the institutional
clhanges have taken place vwich can improve Portugal's agricultural production.
Portugal is currently negot'ating another standby with the IMF, which will
insvolve a further year of stabilization. If the encouraging results of 1978
car be sustained in 1979, a modest beginn'ng in reflating the economy can
be made from early 1980. By that time private investment can also be expected
to gather momentum. Over the long-term (1980-85), Portugal should be able to
achieve and sustain a growth rate of about 5.5 percent per annum. The outlook
for this is encouraging, given the good economic performance in 1978.
11.       Agriculturae  growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. The problem in
agriculture is not only one of investment. It is a matter of correcting
deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the revolution, of reorganiz-
ing the ministry and strengthening its inadequate field services. Extension
is weak in terms of personnel and of the links with the research effort on the
one hand and small farmers and cooperatives on the other. Credit to the rural
sector has neither been adequate nor production-oriented. Fertilizer applica-
tion rate is low. Investment alone will achieve little without substantial
advances in these other areas as well. Measures towards improving the condi-
tions in the agricultural sector are underway.



-5-
12.       The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector in
Portugal's future growth. Here the problem is that the export of manufactures
is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest for
reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include the
general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has been
hired on a permanent basis. The government has made a substantial effort to
restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus provision has been made
for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been eased,
and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977 and
1978, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives. The
private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic growth
rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may require
further incentives and clear evidence of a government commitment to private
initiative. For the rest, it is partly a matter of time, as increasing con-
fidence develops in the stability of democratic government in Portugal, and
as a new relationship evolves between management and labor similar to that in
other Western European countries. The government could perhaps do more to
try to orient the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction
of exporting from their present capacity, and investing in new capacity for
export production.
13.       The focus of economic management in Portugal during the past four
years has understandably been on the short-term. The time is long overdue to
analyze the medium- and long-term needs. At the aggregate level, the domestic
savings rate needs to be restored to levels which permit adequate sustainable
rates of investment without crippling balance of payments deficits. At the
sectoral level, there is a need to restructure investment in a way that will
permit rapid growth overall and a slow resumption in the growth of private
consumption. A medium-term plan was prepared in 1977 but was not finalized
due to political difficulties. Government changes since that time have pre-
vented agreement being reached on the framework for a new medium-term plan;
work in that direction is continuing.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       The Bank has an important role to play in Portugal at present in
helping the government focus on the implications of short-term actions for
medium-term development, in making the government more aware of the role that
institutions play in the growth process, and in assisting the government in
evolving a set of functioning institutions. It will continue to assist the
government in its efforts to restructure the economy, and to bring about the
long overdue institutional reforms which will be necessary preconditions to
rapid and more balanced development in the future.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, the Bank of Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlement and European central banks. The short-term debt
of the Bank of Portugal and of the commercial banks amounted to about $2.1
billion at the end of 1977. In addition, the IMF has so far extended about
$340 million as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and



- 6 -
two credit tranches. The Bank has so far approved $299 million in seven loans
during FY1976-78. In addition, the EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agen-
cies have committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary
aid and for long-term projects. In 1977, Portugal received $750 million in
medium- and long-term aid commitments from 14 countries, mainly the US,
Germany and Japan, as balance of payments support, which are now being dis-
bursed. Commercial banks were relatively inactive in Portugal until May 1978,
because of the government's prolonged negotiations with the IMF and the
general uncertainty. But in August 1978, the government was able to attract
two medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Euro-currency
market for a total of $450 million at an interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR
for a term of 7 years including 4 years grace, to restructure its short-term
debt. Portugal will continue to require sizeable external inflows for the
investment necessary to restructure its economy, while it lowers its balance
of payments deficit in the future. The multilateral lenders, and in partic-
ular the EC/FIB, EFTA and the World Bank, will have to continue to play a
vital role in meeting Portgual's capital requirements.
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,304 million at end 1977, with a
debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from exports, non-factor services
and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent. Total (public and private) medium-
and long-term external debt reached about $2,230 million at end 1977 with a
debt service ratio of about 11.9 percent. There still remains a gold stock
of about 690 metric tons (June 1978) valued at about $4.8 billion, at a price
of $200 per ounce, serving as a safety net, of which about one-third is
pledged for short-term borrowings by the central bank. In the future,
Portugal's total medium- and long-term debt service ratio will be around 17
percent during the 1978-85 period. However, the government has already begun
to make efforts to restructure its short-term foreign debt so as to improve
the maturity profile (see para. 15). In the light of these facts, of the
stabilization efforts made by the government, and of the prospects for growth,
Portugal can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
try. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two
hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.
18.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing dis-
location of human resources and the transition to an open political system
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Modernization Loan, which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 21, 1978.



- 7 -
have revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual for a high-
income developing country. The recent governments in Portugal were pre-
occupied with these weaknesses; after some degree of social and political
peace and stability was achieved, they addressed themselves to restructuring
the economy and the social services, and to carrying out the wide institutional
reforms required for that purpose.  The dual task of tackling the short-term
problems and restructuring the economy over the medium-term for integration
within Europe will require far-reaching efforts from the government and the
people of Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term economic
problems and to eliminate the structural deficiencies without postponing
developmental efforts, Portugal will continue to require sizeable external
assistance, both financial and technical, in the years ahead.
19.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs both through identifica-
tion, preparation and financing of projects and through economic and sector
work. The proposed loan would finance the Bank's thirteenth project in that
country, the eighth since the resumption of lending in 1976. At that time,
demand for power had outstripped supply once again and a power project was
selected as the Bank's first new operation in this familiar sector. A loan
to finance a portion of Electricidade de Portugal's investment program for
1976-86 was approved on June 24, 1976. Six further operations followed:
a loan for a highway project, involving maintenance and construction, prepara-
tion of a transport master plan, a railway rehabilitation plan and a road
investment plan, approved on October 19, 1976; a loan to Banco de Fomento
Nacional for industrial finance was approved May 24, 1977; a loan for a water
supply project was approved on March 28, 1978; a loan for an education project
was approved on April 27, 1978; a loan for an agricultural and fisheries
credit project was approved on June 27, 1978; and a loan for a fertilizer
modernization project was approved on January 4, 1978. A loan for Small- and
Medium-Scale Industry Development will shortly be submitted to the Executive
Directors for consideration. Total Bank loans now amount to $356.5 million.
Disbursements under the initial loans (FY1976 and FY1977) are low due mainly
to the Portuguese agencies' lack of experience with Bank procedures and slow
action on procurement. These difficulties are now being overcome. Under the
FY1976 and FY1977 loans procurement is accelerating, and under the subsequent
loans it is proceeding satisfactorily. Nevertheless, as of March 31, 1979,
total Bank exposure in Portugal stood at only $41.7 million. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1979 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macro-economic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the government in reviewing policy and management
issues. The economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macro-economic level. Reviews
of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export Indus-
tries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural Survey"
(No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978.



- 8 -
The transport sector was reviewed in November          n , d  lCi '.e  eport, when com-
pleted, will be discussed with the government.
21.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the concentration areas for
Bank lending. In the industrial sector there is need for major structural
improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises and
modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced in
the fertilizer subsector, are being studied for the metal-working, pulp and
paper subsectors and are proposed for the textile subsector with Bank support
and advice. Another important constraint is insufficient financial and tech-
nical support to small and medium-size enterprises, and a project for the
development of small and medium industry (SMI) which would address this need
is to be submitted for consideration by the Executive Directors at an early
date. The importance of developing the industrial sector cannot be over-
emphasized, since this sector will be the main force in the Portuguese
economy, primarily for the urgently needed export expansion and competitive-
ness in the European common market but also for efficient import substitution.
The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural reform, export
promotion and employment creation (or preservation). In agriculture, a sector
beset with major problems, there is considerable scope for stepping up growth.
The major constraints are the still unsettled land tenure conditions, institu-
'iocal weaknesses and a shortage of trained technicians for promoting improved
technologies. The Bank has assisted the government in creating a sound agri-
cultur-lJ credit institution and future operations in this sector are likely to
foster irrigation, forestry, livestock and fisheries development. The trained
manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors would be
ad'ressed through projects in those sectors as well as through the FY78 first
-caJio.  project and a iecently appraised second education project.  The
impro-ements in transportation required to sustain the increased output of the
agricultural and industrial sectors would be addressed by the FY76 first high-
way project, the proposed project, and a third transportation project which is
in the process of being identified (paras 41 and 42).
22.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in industry and agricul-
ture, the Bank would continue its efforts aimed at:
(i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint;
(ii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and
selected import substitution;
(iii)  assisting public investment in previously neglected
social areas; and
(iv) supporting government efforts toward the institutional
and policy reforms needed to restructure the economy.
23.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is crucial if
Portugal is to deal successfully with the problems that confront its economy.



9-
It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort while providing advice
on developing the new institutions and reforming old ones, an institutional
effort which is indispensable if Portugal is to achieve its overall long-term
economic objectives.
III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
24.       Portugal's transport network (see Map) is concentrated along the
western coastal plain in a 316 km corridor between Lisbon and Oporto, reflect-
ing the country's seaward outlook and the geographic distribution of its
population. The network is much less dense in the south and east where there
is less economic activity and where the terrain is generally more difficult.
Nonetheless, it provides access to all regions, as a result of a much earlier
government road program which linked every village, down to 100 inhabitants,
to the main road network.
25.       Despite this, and because of a lack of funding in the past, rail
and road transport facilities have suffered from inadequate maintenance, and
little upgrading and modernization. No significant changes have been made
to the basic rail network during the last ten years, and the national highway
network has remained virtually the same during this period, although it
carries the bulk of Portugal's freight traffic. As a result, road and rail
standards in general are considerably lower than are now demanded by the type
of traffic utilizing them, and the volume transported by land has itself
rapidly expanded in recent years. Sea and air transport facilities are
generally satisfactory and adequate for current traffic, especially with the
reduced international traffic demand following the loss of colonies in 1974.
The government appreciates these deficiencies and imbalances between the modes
in the transport sector, and has, under the First Highway Project, initiated
an overall transport planning study and separate modal studies for railways
and highways in order to develop rational transport policies and development
plans (para. 41).
Transport Policy, Planning. Coordinations and Administration
26.       Transport policy and planning over the years have been largely on
an ad hoc basis but, more recently, the government has stressed the need for
coordinated long range transport planning as the basis for determining trans-
port policy and development priorities. Therefore, the government established
a Planning and Programming Office in the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (MTC) with formal responsibility for transport planning and coordination
at the national level. It also requested Bank assistance for this planning,
and as a result, under the First Highway Project, technical assistance is
provided to carry out planning studies (para. 41). These studies started in
1978, 18 months behind schedule, and are scheduled to be completed by early
1981.



- 10 -
27.        At the present time, the government  -is Ctle iaLional railways,
the Companhia Portuguesa dos Caminhos de Ferro (CP), the national airline,
Transportes Aereos Portugueses (TAP) and most of the merchant marine.
The government, through nationalization of the ten largest independent "public"
trucking enterprises, also owns about 10 percent of the "public" trucking
fleet and, in addition, controls considerably more of the trucking industry
through the nationalization of banks and various industries. The government
also is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the national
highway system and, with local governments, shares responsibility for local
and forest roads. CP, TAP and the merchant marine are under the direction
of MTC. The Junta Autonoma de Estradas (JAE), which is the national highways
authority, is responsible for highway planning, construction and maintenance
under the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MPW).
Railways
28.        The railways was nationalized in 1975, and although administratively
autonomous, CP is responsible to the MTC. The railway network consists of
just over 2,800 route-km of broad gauge track and just over 750 route-km of
meter-gauge track. The main line between Lisbon and Oporto and other parts
of the broad gauge network have recently been rehabilitated, but much of the
narrow gauge system is only in fair or poor condition due to the deferment of
maintenance and renewal. Likewise, much of the rolling stock is over age and
in need of replacement.
29.        The biggest problem currently facing CP is its poor financial
condition. The poor condition of physical assets, deficiencies in organiza-
tinn, planning and marketing, and the low quality of service have inhibited
At, growth of rail traffic.  Recently, CP has made determined efforts to
expand its share of the transport market but, nevertheless, freight traffic
has remnained essentially stagnant at about 4 million tons annually, though
expanding slightly in terms of ton-km from 800 million to 900 million ton-km
per year over the last decade. Freight traffic consists mainly of fertilizer,
cement and grain, much of it at rates below average costs.
30.        CP has experienced large deficits for several years with revenues
insufficient to cover even the wage bill, and currently only about equal to
the interest on short-term borrowings. The present deficit is largely the
result of increasing costs, the failure to increase tariffs sufficiently and
the retention of surplus staff and some uneconomic lines due to social con-
siderations and government policies.
Ports
31.        In spite of direct land access to Europe through Spain, the inter-
national movement of goods to and from Portugal is almost completely by sea.
Portugal has some 19 officially designated ports. However, of the approxi-
mately 25 million tons of total cargo, including 11 million tons of liquid
cargo, handled in 1977 in all the ports, the ports of Lisbon, Leixoes (the
main port of Oporto) and Setubal handled over 23 million tons in total,



- 11 -
including all the liquid cargo. Lisbon is the largest port, handling nearly
one-half of all the cargo. Initial development of a new deep water port
at Sines, 80 km south of Lisbon, is underway to cater mainly for petroleum
products. The government is reviewing the situation at Sines to find an eco-
nomic approach to its further development. The Bank is helping to determine
what studies are required for this purpose.
32.       Administratively, the ports of Portugal have considerable autonomy,
and have been able to finance current investments from their own resources.
The operational efficiency of the ports needs to be improved, and with new
investments now under way or committed, including a new container terminal
in Lisbon, the ports generally will have adequate basic capacity for traffic
in the immediate future.
Civil Aviation
33.       Mainland Portugal has three civil airports, capable of handling
modern international jet traffic, at Lisbon, Oporto and Faro. The latter
is in the Algarve region, the country's main tourist area on the southern
coast. In addition, there is a jet airport at Funchal on the island of
Madeira, an important tourist center, on the nearby island of Porto Santo,
and at Santa Maria in the Azores. With the exception of the jet airport
at Funchal, facilities are generally adequate for current traffic, although
domestic air travel has grown rapidly in recent years and some upgrading of
national airport facilities may be necessary in the near future. A study of
the Funchal airport is underway, financed by the government.
34.       Because of the small size of Portugal, the national airline, TAP,
maintains only two domestic routes in continental Portugal, between Lisbon
and Oporto and between Lisbon and Faro. TAP also regularly services the
Azores, Madeira and Porto Santo. A subsidiary of TAP provides air taxi
service and charter flights throughout Portugal, and air service among the
islands of the Azores is provided by another company.
Highways
35.       Highway traffic is growing at 8 percent per annum; in 1976 it
carried two-thirds of all land freight in ton-km, and nearly all the passenger
traffic of Portugal. For the most part, the highway network is not designed
for modern high speed motor vehicles, but it is sufficiently extensive to
serve all parts of the country including agricultural and lesser developed
regions. During the last 20 years only about 1,500 km of newly designed
roads have been constructed and the geometric characteristics and the bearing
capacity of the greater part of the network no longer meets the demands of
modern highway traffic. Out of the total highway network of just over 32,000
km, some 18,500 km are classified as national highways, the remaining 13,500
km as local roads. In addition, there are about 11,000 km of city roads and
streets and some 4,500 km of forest roads. Except for less than 100 km of
four-lane divided highway, essentially all roads of the national network are
of two-lane standard. About 90 percent of the national network has pavement
widths (between 5 and 6 m) which are too narrow for present day traffic.



- 12 -
36.       Expenditures during the decade 1Q63--'973 er( cm--struction, upgrading,
and maintenance of the network, expressed in constant e,Ludos, became progres-
sively less than that required by increasing traffic. As a consequence, and
in spite of increases in budget allocations for highway maintenance during thc
last four years, there are many roads that have not been resurfaced for over
a decade and are showing serious signs of deterioration. This lack of appro-
priate periodic maintenance (resurfacing) has been aggravated by the expansion
of land traffic in the last decade, most of which has occurred on the highways.
Traffic in terms of passenger and ton-km grew at approximately 6 percent per
annum between 1970 and 1977. Freight is now carried by generally larger and
more powerful trucks or truck and trailer combinations than was the case ten
years ago. Even with the enforcement of legal axle load limits (10 tons for
a single and 16 for a tandem axle), these units and their increasing numbers
cause increased wear on pavements which were designed to much lower standards,
and also to the shoulders of many of the narrower highways. The First Highway
Loan therefore included a pilot highway rehabilitation program in the Lisbon
region (para. 42), and the proposed project would extend this urgently needed
program to all regions of Portugal (para. 46).
Highway Administration
37.       The national highway system is under the direct administration
of JAE. The main administrative and technical departments of JAE are located
in Lisbon but, for works execution, authority has been effectively delegated
to the regional offices. Staffing is generally adequate, and JAE manages its
affairs satisfactorily. The regions have direct responsibility for right-of-
way acquisition, construction, road maintenance and mechanical services.
Under the July 1978 organizational structure, the design function will also be
centrated in the regions.
Planni ng
38.       Within JAE, the Planning and Programming Office is responsible
for overall highway planning, both for construction and maintenance. This
office is directly involved in the development of a highway master plan
and national five-year highway maintenance plan for which technical assistance
is being provided under the First Highway Project (para. 42). The Planning
and Programming Office, which has a high degree of competence, developed
the overall indicative highway rehabilitation program on which this project
is predicated, and will be responsible for the preparation of the individual
feasibility studies rczquired for each section proposed (para. 46).
Financing
39.       The government uses a general fund method of budgeting, and in the
transport sector this has led in recent years to road transport subsidizing
the general fund to about twice the amount budgeted for highways. Certain
road taxes however are earmarked for the Land Transportation Fund which sup-
ports railways, urban projects and general research and planning. In addition
to this, many revenue earning transport agencies (especially the railways)
are being subsidized by the government to meet their ever-growing deficits



- 13 -
(para. 30), notwithstanding the government's policy that public enterprises
should be self-sufficient. Highway expenditures are normally financed from
the general budget. The present exception is a toll road between the Lisbon
region and Oporto, including the bridge over the river Tagus, which is being
financed under a concession agreement. Although there are a number of direct
taxes on the highway user, such as taxes on fuel, no tax funds are directly
earmarked for highway expenditures.
40.       Taxes on motor transport are, overall, high with fuel prices among
the highest in Western Europe. Between 1970 and 1975 total direct user
charges (i.e., excluding import duties on vehicles and spare parts) totaled
almost 32 billion escudos (about $1.2 billion). During the same five-year
period road maintenance and construction expenditures on all non-urban
national, local and forest roads totaled just less than 7 billion escudos
(about $260 million). In 1977, total revenue from taxes and charges on road
transport amounted to approximately 11 billion escudos, while total expendi-
tures on national and local roads amounted to approximately 3.3 billion
escudos. Highway users as a whole thus provide revenue well in excess of the
finance provided for highways.
The Bank's Role in the Transport Sector
41.       The Bank's role in the transport sector as a whole is to help the
government develop appropriate transport policies, and the necessary institu-
tional support, and identify priority physical and organizational needs for
roads, railways, ports and coastal shipping and to assist with priority works.
The First Highway Project was the first project in the transport sector, and
its primary objectives were to help establish efficient road maintenance
procedures, to protect past highway investments through road rehabilitation,
to help improve inter-modal planning through a transport master plan, and to
improve modal planning for the railways and highways subsectors.
42.       The First Highway loan was approved by the Board in October 1976.
After initial delays, due, in particular, to lengthy legal procedures to
acquire necessary land and to substantial delays in the selection of foreign
consultants, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The project pro-
vided for a pilot road rehabilitation program, 1977-79, in the Lisbon region;
equipment for routine road maintenance for national roads and supporting
workshops in the Lisbon region; construction of a bypass around the city of
Covilha; and technical assistance and training for improving road administra-
tion and planning, railway planning, and multi-modal transport planning. The
proposed project, which would be the Bank's second loan in the transport
sector, covers the next stage of work on highway rehabilitation, extending
this critical element of protection to the existing investment throughout
Portugal, and providing transport cost savings to the country as a whole.
The elaboration of a national highway maintenance program, also included in
the first project, will not be completed until 1981, and therefore the pro-
posed project does not address itself to the improvement of highway main-
tenance. This could be a component of a possible third Bank loan in the
transport sector. However, the proposed project would reduce recurrent
expenditures for the rehabilitated roads.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
43.        The project was identified in November 1977, prepared during the
first half of 1978 and appraised in August/September 1978. Negotiations took
place in Washington in March 1979. The Portuguese delegation was led by
Dr. Lucena e Valle, of the Ministry of Finance and Planning's Office of
External Economic Cooperation and included representatives of the Treasury
Department of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and JAE. The main fea-
tures of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary. Special
conditions of the project are summarized in Annex III. A draft appraisal
report entitled "Second Highway Project, Portugal," dated April 30, 1979
(No. 2300-PO) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
44.        The demands of modern highway traffic, superimposed on an old
highway network, have created serious problems for road maintenance and
vehicle operation. Due to a lack of road maintenance and rehabilitation in
the past, vehicle operating costs are high and even with intense maintenance
there is a serious risk of losing capital invested in the network through the
total breakdown of some road sections unless they are rehabilitated so as to
make it possible to maintain them with a reasonable amount of maintenance.
Under the First Highway Project, the methodology for selecting and evaluating
roads to be rehabilitated was developed and applied on a pilot project in the
Lisbon area. Implementation of the rehabilitation works under this pilot
basis is now sufficiently advanced to verify the effectiveness of the pro-
cedures adopted. The proposed project would extend the rehabilitation pro-
gi7anu, using the knowledge gained from the First Highway Project, to the rest
of the country.
Project Description
45.        The project consists of:
(a) a three-year (1980-82) time slice of the highway rehabilita-
tion program for national roads and related supervision;
(b) engineering for these rehabilitation works; and
(c) training and fellowships programs for JAE staff.
Highway Rehabilitation
46.        JAE has prepared a five-year (1980-84) program of rehabilitation
projects for the national highway network. These projects, which are con-
sidered to have the highest priority in terms of present conditions and
traffic levels, cover a total of about 1,500 km of highway which are to
be rehabilitated by strengthening and improving the riding surface of the
pavement and by reinstating the shoulders, embankment slopes and drainage
systems. In some cases, where the original design does not meet present
traffic requirements, additional works of pavement and shoulder widening may
be necessary. The proposed project would provide for the rehabilitation of
about 1,000 km of road throughout Portugal (see map) during the first three



- 15 -
years (1980-82) of this program and would use the criteria and approach
developed under the First Highway Project for technical and economic feasi-
bility studies (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement) which
will be provided for each individual road section that is proposed for
rehabilitation. To be eligible for Bank financing, the rehabilitation of each
road section would require a minimum of 12 percent economic return over the
project implementation period (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement), although in
a number of cases, the economic rate of return for individual road sections is
expected to be well in excess of this required minimum (para. 55).
Engineering Services
47.        The proposed rehabilitation program will lead to some peaking in
the JAE engineering design load. To ensure smooth and early implementation
of the program, while avoiding the necessity of staffing-up to meet a rela-
tively short-term "peak load," JAE intends to employ the National Civil
Engineering Laboratory of MPW to carry out the necessary pavement and soil
evaluations, and consultants to prepare detailed designs and bid documents
(Section 3.02, Loan Agreement). The National Laboratory carries out materials
testing and research for public works, and is satisfactorily carrying out
similar pavement evaluation work on the rehabilitation component of the First
Highway Project. The Laboratory has the capacity to do the pavement evalua-
tion for the proposed project as well.
Training and Fellowships
48.        With the July 1978 reorganization of JAE which decentralized its
operations (para. 37), the professional and technical staff requirements of
JAE have increased. Over the next several years, JAE expects to increase
its staff from about 3,000 to 4,000 persons, and therefore requires training
programs both for technical staff and for professionals. The First Highway
Project provided for 36 man-months of fellowships abroad, and the proposed
project expands this program in view of the JAE reorganization by providing
20 fellowships for one year each (up to 240 man-months) for post graduate
studies abroad in highway and traffic engineering subjects. The proposed
loan would finance the foreign costs of these fellowships.
49.        For technical staff, the consultants to JAE under the First High-
way Project are preparing details by early 1981 for a much needed training
program particularly addressed to surveyors, works inspectors and materials
technicians. Under the proposed project, the Bank would finance the foreign
costs of the first two years of this training program, expected to be 1982-83.
These foreign costs are expected to be largely comprised of audio-visual and
other training equipment, but may also cover the foreign costs of instructors
if required.  The government has agreed to submit its proposals on the train-
ing program to the Bank by July 1, 1981, and to implement this program accord-
ing to a timetable agreed with the Bank (Section 3.02(d) of the Loan Agree-
ment).



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
50.        The total cost of the project, including physical and price contin-
gencies and taxes, is estimated at $114.7 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of about $39.3 million equivalent (or 34 percent). The
foreign exchange component has been estimated on the basis of the likely
participation of foreign and local firms in the project. Under this assess-
ment, local contractors would carry out the rehabilitation works, and consul-
tants preparing detailed design and bid documents (160 man-months) would be
75 percent local and 25 percent foreign, at an average cost of $6,875 per man
month. Local costs of the project would be increased by about $0.4 million,
excluding possible price escalations, if Portuguese consultants were to be
awarded all the detailed design work for this project. The project cost
estimate includes physical and price contingencies.  The physical contingency,
reflecting possible quantity changes, has been set at 10 percent of the base
cost estimate. The price contingency reflects possible price escalations in
local and foreign costs, the relation of the dollar to other major foreign
currencies, as well as the relation of the escudo to the dollar. The price
contingencies applied to the base cost estimate, expressed in dollar terms,
are 10 percent in 1979, 9 percent in 1980, 8 percent in 1981, and 7 percent
in 1982 and 1983. Given the Government's policy of making exchange rate
adjustments as necessitated by differences in the domestic and international
rates of inflation, it is appropriate to apply the same contingencies to local
as to foreign costs when both are expressed in dollars.
51.        The proposed loan of $40 million would finance the foreign costs of
the first three years of the rehabilitation program (including engineering),
th-reby continuing the Bank's assistance in this specific area which began
w    tF. t rtroduction of 'he pilot highway rehabilitation program in the
..s on region under the First Highway Project. It would also finance the
,urcha e of training equipment, and would provide up to 240 man-months of
P,ost-graduate fellowships for JAE technical staff. Specifically, the proposed
loan would finance the estimated foreign cost of road rehabilitation ($38.6
million and 80 percent ($1.1 million) of the cost of engineering consultants,
which represents the estimated foreign exchange component if such services
were provided by foreign consultants. To the extent that the estimate of
local consultants winning contracts is correct, the proposed loan might
finance local costs, up to a maximum of $0.7 million. The government has
undertaken to provide $74.7 million equivalent to meet the rest of the project
costs. JAE will be the beneficiary of the loan.
Project Execution
52.        JAE will have the overall responsibility for the design, execution
and supervision of the project, and will be assisted by consultants and
National Laboratory services on the design of the rehabilitation projects,
and by consultants under the First Highway project on the preparation of the
training program. The supervision of the rehabilitation contracts will be



- 17 -
carried out by JAE staff in the appropriate regional offices, under the
general guidance of the Directorate of Road Maintenance (Section 3.02, Loan
Agreement). This is the same arrangement which has worked effectively for the
rehabilitation component of the First Highway Project. The rehabilitation
works will be spread over a three-year period, beginning in 1980. Engineering
is expected to begin early in 1979.
Procurement
53.       Contracts for the road rehabilitation works will be based on unit
prices, and will be awarded in accordance with local procedures, except that,
for appropriate road sections, procurement packages of at least $2.5 million
value, with a global total estimated at about $10 million, will be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procedures,
while allowing small local contractors to bid on individual components of bid
packages (Schedule 4, Loan Agreement). Local contractors are expected to be
awarded all rehabilitation contracts. Portuguese consultants are capable of
providing the engineering services required, and there are an adequate number
of such firms to ensure competition and to carry out the work. Both appro-
priate foreign and local firms will be included on the short-lists for these
services. The participation of local firms will provide encouragement to the
local consulting industry in the expanding field of highway work. Contracts
for the procurement of training equipment will be awarded after international
competitive bidding for packages of more than $50,000 value, after local
competitive bidding for packages costing between $10,000 and $50,000, and
through local shopping for packages of less than $10,000 value, provided that
the aggregate for local shopping purchases does not exceed $100,000 (Schedule
4, B, to the Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
54.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over the five-year period, 1980-
84, on the following basis: 35 percent of the actual rehabilitation works
representing the estimated equivalent foreign exchange cost, 80 percent
of the cost of design consulting services, 100 percent of the foreign cost of
fellowships, 100 percent of the foreign or ex factory cost of training equip-
ment or, in the case of local shopping, 80 percent of the off the shelf cost
of such equipment.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
55.       A significant number of Portugal's highways have deteriorated to
the point where they need reconditioning to make it possible to maintain
them with a normal, regular amount of maintenance effort. Even with inten-
sive and expensive maintenance, some of the roads will break up under the
present traffic load unless rehabilitation is expeditiously carried out.
Benefits from such rehabilitation will include not only savings in vehicle
operating costs, but also savings in maintenance costs and, in a number of
cases, savings in reconstruction costs. A feasibility study for each indi-
vidual road, road section or highway bridge proposed for rehabilitation under
the proposed project will be submitted to the Bank for approval, and will be
required to show an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent (Section
2.02(b) and Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement). Experience under the First



- 18 -
Highway Project has shown that the 13 highway links so far analysed have
economic rates of return varying between 12 and 75 percent.
56.        The benefits from the project will accrue to the economy of Portugal
as a whole. Under present conditions, the benefits will accrue to both the
state, which owns or controls a portion of the trucking fleet, and to private
companies and individuals, who own the remainder of the trucking fleet and the
passenger vehicle fleet. The extent to which benefits to truckers will be
passed down depends on continued competition in the industry, which is now
quite strong, and government taxing and pricing policies. The benefits to
passenger vehicles cover essentially the whole spectrum of income groups,
including riders of public transport, employer-owned and private cars, reflect-
ing the diversity of traffic using the highways.
57.       The economic return for each road rehabilitation section and, there-
fore, for the project as a whole will be a minimum of 12 percent (para. 46),
and the economic rate of return for individual road sections is likely, in many
cases, to be considerably higher.
Project Risk
58.        There are no significant project related risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Portugal, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
60.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. There are no special conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
61.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1 of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RERERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AU (THOUSAND SO. KK.)                   PORTUGAL                       - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 1..
ToTAL             92.1                                                  sAM         SAM       mXT HIGHZR
AGRICULTURAL      41-7                                HDST iEiCir     GEOGCAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTInATE Lb      UCION  c  GROUP L       GROUP La
GNP PM CAPITA (US$)                  380.0       990.0    1850.0           1898.8     L796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PE CAPITA
(XILOGUMS OF COAL SQUIVALIEN)      382.0       754.0    983.0           1869.3     1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TAR
(MILLIONS)                         9.0         9.1       9.8*
*                                IURBAN POPULATIOi (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7      26.9      28.8            43.0       52.2
POPMLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       98.0        99.0     106.0            81.4        27.6        55.8
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    186.0       211.0     235.0           135.2       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PElCENT)
0-14 nRS.                         29.2        28.5      27.3            26.2        34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         62.8        61.8      62.5            63.4       56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   8.0         9.7      10.2             9.9         5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWIR RkTe (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              0.7 If      0.1 L    0.4              0.8         1.6         2.9
URBAN                              1.4         1.8       2.4             2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.0        21.1      19.2             19.2       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.8        10.4      10.5              9.0        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.6         1.5       1.5              1.3        1.9         1.6
FANILY PLANNING
ACCZPTORS, ANNUAL. (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRED  oER)    3. ..                    -            38.0        19.31
FooD AND NUTRITION
INDIx OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970100)             76.2       100.0      82.9            113.7      103.8       114.7
PtR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUTRDEENTS)                  107.0       118.0    L18.0 La          127.4      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)          77.0        85.0      85.0 LA          92.8       77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       33.0        40.0        ..             39.3       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      5.2 1h      3.4       2.2              1.6        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE ExpECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3        66.1      68.7             68.9       63.0        60.2
INANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           77.5        58.0      37.9             34.5       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERICERT OF
POPULATION)
MOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            68.3        67.7        83.0
URRAI                               ..          ..        ..             74.3       83.5       100.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             64.4       41.5        36.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             94.0       70.3        57.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             94.0       90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             93.0       38.3
POPUIATION PER PHrYSICIAN         1180.0      1120.0     900.0            686.5     1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1430.0      1090.0    870.0             339.0      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            190.0       170.0      170.0           178.0      275.4       325.8
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..            70.0      129.9       250.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           1770.0      965.9       770.0
ADMSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        10.0       12.0            15.3       18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9         3.7         *-              *-        3.9
URRAN                              4.0          ..         ..
REJAL                              3.9          ..        ..
AVERAGE NUtBER OF PERSONS PER ROaM
TOTAL                              L.1         0.8        ..              0.9        0.9
URBAN                              L.0          ..        ..              0.8        0.8
RURAL                              L.1          ..        ..              1.0        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             40.5        64.2        ..             57.5       59.2
URBAN                             88.5           ..       ..             99.0       78.0
RMRAL                             27.4          ..        ..               ..       12.5



- 20 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A'                                        Page  2  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlET
REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVEPAGES
PORTtlCAL
- HOST RECENT EST7IATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT NIGNEL
MOST REC31?       GRAPRIC      ItlORl      INGONE
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      31ION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP ja
EDU7CATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLNT RAT10
FRUIAt:    TOTAL                 131.0         96.0     116.0           106.0        97.6       104.1
rEKALE              129.0        96.0      94.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDART:  TOTAL                 20.0         57.0      49.0 Li         62.8        47.8        44.7
FUKALE               16.0        51.0         ..            63.6        42.6        46.0
VDCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SE0NDAIY) 46.0          32.0      40.0            28.2        22.7        18.7
PUPUL-TIEPAI RATIO
PnIAR                             34.0         34.0      27.0            24.9        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                         19.0         17.0      14.0            17.3        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       62.0         71.0        ..             88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.0         54.0      98.0            90.4        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TU3USAND
POPULATIC0                        95.0        142.0     174.0            1".0       201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0         40.0      66.0            132.5       97.9       108.4
NEWSPAPEIR ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION1 PER
TIOUSAND POPULATIcN                 63.0         84.0      91.0            97.1        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          3.0       4.1             6.6         4.4
E1PLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..    4100.0                **
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    ..          ..       25.5            32.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               ..           ..      32.5 Li         32.8        38.4        25.7
IIDBUSTRY (PERCENT)                 ..           ..      33.7 Li
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      44.6             39.1       33.7        40.1
MAL2                                   ..         ,.       56.4             56.7       50.8        55.8
FEMALE                                ..           ..      32.3            29.7        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                *-          ..       0.9              0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOYE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        56.1 /k.1 56.3 /k.u       31.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         79.4 .1  78.6 lk.a        59.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.2 7T   7.3  k           4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.6 /k.1 21.4 /k..        12.9       13.7
POVETY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR3AN
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..            194.9      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..         .            295.1      448.8
RURAL                               ..           ..     454.0 **         309.2      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENlT)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             18.2       23.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      20.0             24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages  for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric mean, excluding the extrem
value. of the ind1cator end the moet populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data &ad is not uniform.
/b    Unles  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Koet Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  Id   Upper Middle Inco_e (t1136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /a  High Incom   (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
/f  Due to emigration, population growth rate i  lower than rate of natural incres-e;   L&  Av. 1969-71;
/h  1965;   /i  disrupted enrollment due to political unre-t;   1I  Estimtes based oU inquiry of eploy;_nt
conducted by Institute of National Statistics;   /k   Highest 25Z and 50S and lowest 25S and 501 of households;
j/j 1968; ]m 1973-74.
*  Revised   population   figure   for  1977  is   9.7  million.                                     S.pt.embr. 1978
** This figure is for 1976.  The estimate for 1977 is $480.0



- 21-
Annex I1
DEFINITIONIS oP1 SOCIAL INDICATORS                                     Page   3   of    5
aguL&;  ih djusted grou   avrae   o ah indicato  are population-weightad gemti  m ,ecludin  the exreevaus  fthe indIctor. ova cc too
poplae  cutry in each group.  Coverage of osuetie  a"ong the Indictr  dgepends on silab1ilty o a,and to tot o-iof-    lice to lack i dat-,
grupavraeefo  Capitol ..arpiusOilExpetrter  and indicacrer of ace..a to aster end en.reta disposal, hvuetng, Income distrihbcion and povertyr
sImple population-weighted geometriC m-   without the excLusion of extrem  values.
LAND AREA  itousand. s1q. he)                                                             Ppltocthoitled-ttlura.odual-opston   toal
Totl.  - Ttota  surf ace area coprlisng lard area and inland vetere.                       orben, and cral.) dicided by their respective vomir  ti hoe.          n  hedn
haistrl- Post recent estimt   fIgtalua    are  see d temporarily                    -calable to public and prioste genra  ae:d upecinlined hosptltn -ad  n-"
or pereexextly far Cropa, pas t-re,mrker and lltohan gardexa or to                        ehilitro  catt. lsitela are naaIshcas.t Iper-annli   trted b
lie falw                                                                                  t laser one physiotex.  inrebliomean-  proeding prtnrtpaIl y.cos odial
esre are nut inolsdsd. Rural hospitals. be..en-r, ioclude healh and vedi-
ClNP PfR CAPITA (IS)) - CNP par capita eatimetes at Current market prices,                   cal centree  nor permAnetly staffed by a physician  hat, by a, x         -1ols
calculated.by  asam   cnoauoxathos as  enld Seank Arlas (1975-77 basis);                 sis.tant  vrexidxife, etc.) whicheoffer In-paiet aco dtion u_d
1960, 1970.ad 197d  pss.yricda a limited -caug f -edica.,fCIitie.
Adaisalons per hosvital be~d _ Tntal vuaher of ad'si...nn to or diuch-rgax
ENERGY CONSiI'fTION PERf CAPITA - hAx.Isicoaein  of coomrotal erergy                         frva hospitals divided hy tne somber of hsda.
Conal and ligrite, petroleum, natural gas tad hydra-, naulear and geo-
therma  electricity) to. kilogrems of Cnal  pqlasiac tocpita.                       HOUSING
Average alve if hosenbold leen  per 'household) - total, ur1ban,  -od coral -
PPLO.ATISN ANrS VITAL S      .TATISTICO                                                      A ho..cehoLd rvnm    f a  ru   f Ivdictdcsaa who uhare tiviogqatr
Total population. ad-year (nilluone)  -AcIf Isi       i  ntavilable,            and thirmanes.   A hoarder ortldgesa  or nay vot yeicadsi
overage  i teen ed-ya  asnimatcee;.Ob  197O, and  91977 data,                       the household tcr atataicai.l papss            statistical dcfiiitions of hou..e-
Urban 2pop1ltinn (perCent of Ltotl) - Eatio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tnon; differext defiitnicon  of urban areas may eiffect compaorability                 Av-rege e~sae  of permons per room - total 1.irhsn, and rornl - Average  om
of data aeeg cobrax.hr of paranna per room  in all, urban, and rurl oc cupied conventionalI
____u__t_________t_                                                                                     reepcti-eLy.  Dwellings exclude vo-permae,nth struCtcres and
Per so. km. - Mid-year populatian par square ktlo...rar .1100 hectares)                   anoccupied parts.
of totalar.                                                                            Accec  to, eleo1tric!ty (percent of d.ellinga) - cvtsl, orban, and rural  -
per so. km. agiuture Laxo - Compared as ahoy. for agrioultural land                       ConvetIonalI dwellings  iith elecric~ity in ltivig qoar tarn as yrc-ntog
only.                                                                                    of -C.1, arbee, and cora  dwellings respectively.
Pop.laLi..an se  turc (- ere nn   -Children f0-1hyas,4               vkn-g
(15-64 years), and retired(5Ypears and over) cc perCenagsof mid-                    EDUCATION
pear ..popuaton                                                                       Adluated en..ollant raCioe
popol.tlo  grouh rare(ernt -  oal   ndahn - Copeund .n-..I                               Primary uchool - taca . ad female -Total ad f-ei  enro1I"etof[uI ages
growthrrn         t-.ora   sd oron ai'd-year popltin   for150-hf,                        at the primary level as perCcnae   f               tepc Icec   riary schol-ce~g
1960-70, and 1970-75                                                                     populations; normlly iacluden children. aged6-1l vifaruthut udjiorted  c
Crude birth rate (per_cthnu-nd) - Annual lIne birtha per thb....xd of                      dfferent iogch   fp          r  educatio; frCoon..rot..Iorul  du-
mid-year; poPulation; ten-year anithmati  averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enro llment nap exceed  00 fervent since some pupils are helca 
1970 ao   ive-p ear ser age ending in 1975 for eve  r ra..st esitlet.                   ohov  the offticI school age.
Crude deat.h ro,te tor ruanld; - Annual deaths perirhou.and of mid-                      Secoodary nho -  otl.a                fml-Conlputeo  an above; Ievdrycc
year pouaion;  ten-per  rirvhostfc ysra esndtng In 1960H and 1970                        lIon requires at Ie.a  fear yearsfupprovo  primary   .IarCttov~; pro
andfiepaaarg  ending in 1975 for meet cannot estimate.                                   vlde  gecrarl  -vtxionai, or teac.her ecairiag ivtroctboax for pupils
Cros  reproductio  rate - Aversge nrsbr of daughters a anne  will bear                    ....alyp of 12 tv 17 years of age; correspondence  -ooroes urn gevera.lly
in her norma  neprnd-otl- period if  h   xeine   roetae                                   oldd
spcfictrily  a             _;usualy fiveya    evnle  endIn  in160,                 VPocatlonal  nroIen   percetovf  -ac-darv) - VocatIonal  lostituccona a-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          elude techniocal, tdsct l,r other programs w1hich aperate csdepenoeet1y
Paiyplanning -aooCavters.  .nasa1 (thousan ds) - Annual soaker of                      at an departments of  -codary instito tior.
aucenptrn of birhtib-cein  de-icee under au pices of  actanal family                  Ponll-teacner ratio- prmay,ad  -eaod-tt - Toa t-                  etorcidI
planng prga,Primacy und uccndary ie-ei  divided by nonhe- of teac.her a in coh                                                                                         re
Pse.ily    . vi nale-  sr  (Portent vi xanrled eaa       -Percentage  f                    oponding lvel.
merrved stones  f Chlld-heriag sat (15-A4 yearsf  h.e ace hirth--c rotl               Adult litnrncy rcar  loeroen) - Litaato uoltu (ablly to reed sad ante) a
dent c-  tv all menid  _oe  in Ims- age grvup.                                           a parc--ga of rtota  adult pepularins eaa lb ynars and over
PiOD AN15 PrUTRTIITTN                                                                   CONSUMIPTION
loden of feed predooton pet Capita _(I9015    nde  namber of per                        Psecenger cars (Per thous..sad ppl n)-Passenge.r earn c-prion mctr coca
capit  annua  productIonp of all, fond cnod -itis.                                     setiva lass than eight persons;.. excldes oehuianoex, hearses and eltr
per cants1t. aupply of Calories (percent of egrea)- Computed icon                        vehicle..
ene rgyyequivalent uf net food supplies avalable In Country per Cspits                Radio receiver  (or cho...and porulasiont  - All types o  rac I.iveuirrn
per day.  AvaIlable sppita  remprias dumeario production   leports less          broadiasrasc togenealpsl              h par .toosnd o-osiro;  nldr   iccn
enporca,and.changes In stock.  Nat oupp ise  enoluda animlifeed, aeeda,               -sevesincatrienao   vyarwhn rgieccailn of radio nets   ui
qa..sItine    aosd in free proce...tig, and Ioc.c. in diterrlhbcioa    Re-             af fect; date  fot recent pests- navor he c-parble since noat coun tries
qaitements were  atlatad by Pu  bsheds as physholngica,l neda for nor-                 obelished licens.ing.
mel atiotty and hasithi considering enironmeantal tamparatara.  body                  TV receivers (per thoa..axd 2oruletirn) - TV ..e.iv-co for broadcas..t.y genera
weighta, age end can distribationse of populatian. and allowing 10 par-                  yubica per thousand population; exclJudes unlicense.d TVreivs  in c-uv
cent for wasethouseahold Ice..d.                                                         criec and is peace uses registration of TV sate was Inefectt .
per Cavits suecly of procisi  (ar-ma par day)- proeins. tantea  of per                 Nesscpepr Circulation (parIh,.cas  eneation) -Sh"we the. avrage circola-
capita aet supply of mood par day.  Nan supply of iaod is defined as                     he    f'al   ese   ineet _onsasyper".dfined.as apercdl-I pabli-
above.  Rsquirtemsnts for all o-tnriec esrablishad by USDA provIde for                   cation deented primarily to recording general yan..   It  -cn-I de-d to
a  nivxo  c11-encn  of h0 gram  of nen..l proeina   per day and 20 ers_                 hr "daily'  if it appears          . tn lea r  ivo  ttasaaa..
of ueimal and pulse prortei, of which 10 greams should ha  nactal protein.            Cinema ane!Sl attendance per canita per year -BDasd onthe tomber of tickern
The.. utodA.rds are lowe.r than these of 75 gram  of total protf   ndsl -darngthe year, Including admi-ai-an  odi_-in cunems and -absie
23 groae  of animal pcrntin ae an a-rage far the waId. prepocedinbyn                     'nit..
PAO tv the Third World Pond turvy.
Per capita protein supply from animal and p01cc - Protein suppip of food               EIfLOYNIENT
deIrive   fromasaIc sd pase  i  grams  per dap.                                        Toa  ao   oc   tosno       cnaclyactive persona.  cclading  -tnd
Chl _(gs  -) nrrity rcelent thoss.and) - Annual deaths par theus-                    focsaduepyd but ...cluding  Answvu    tdnv    tc.  Deisi-
and in age group I-A pears, to Children In this age grasp.                               dos  o.aroo   co rirte  are notcoprbe
Feae(ercent) -F.emale labor force ac parcenrag           tofctal  aber -frce
HEALTH                                                                                   Agiscre (percent) - Labor fvrce in formiog, orsty,huting and flah-ag
LIeep crxy,zat brch (lyagre) - Average camber vf years of life                      a t rperrenoge vf total I labo   rtoe.
reanng  otbrc;acal  fivepa   vrgsedn   s16,17,                                    Induarry (percet   -abr frce in  ining, v-nsruac .on,  mnfacturirg and
and 1)75.                                                        elenrc~~~~~~~~~~~~icity, wtatr and gas a. percentage of total laborfre
Ifant mert.lity rter (par thousaand) - Annual deaths of infanst  under                 Parcicipatina ra"te (percent) - cotal,  "Il., and female - Total, male, and
vo   ero   ge~perrthousand live birhtc,                                           "eaelbr  oe              p rcetgs" of chect respectiv  ppluie
Accesto safewate   (prcnt of cowlatlon. - coea. u rban an  rural -Ih.se are 110s adjete  parthi Cpetion ratex ye 1 flncgag-e
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with resxbIl.eac.e.. to                       vir-eror  of the popsl.ia ra  and tong tine tred.
safe eater sapply (toxiudes treated swefarewaar  or untreated hut                     Eronneic dependency r.tiv - Satin of population order lb and hh and  -te  i
oncosnaeisated wnter suob ae that from protertad boerholas, sPr iogs                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
,and ..nitory vella:) as perr...rcges of their reepartive pepulatinna.
Is an orbantace     pblic f...nrain yr etandpest It..ared set mrac                  tINCOME DISTRIBUTION
then 200 meters free a house may be Censidered as being within ra                     Percentage of,orivate incomee (both in cas h and hind)  ..eceined.by richest S
sonabhe aco... of that h.u"..  Ox rural areas reaa...able accees woud                    perrent.t  hoeac20percent. poorest 20prcet, ud p                   trn  40 peroant
i.ply that the housewife or cmbers of the hb.a..bald do net have to                      vf hou..ebeids.
spend a disPrpcprtienste part of the day is ferohiag the familyp
wateroneede                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A....s t0 exc rete disposal pecnofupain)-talurban, cod                                   Estimated absolute poverty Income leyal (US$ per capita) - urban and r-rl 
rural - Nfuber of people (total, urban, and cural) ser,ad by eacreta                        Abenluc e pavrty incmeleeli  thatincom  leve  helow uhich a staina
dixprasa  as percencagac of their respectiva populations.  Excrete                          t       aoriinay aeuaediet plu  escentil con-fond reqoi-r...ncsiuv-c
dispecal may include tha -11-eties and dieposal, with or without                          afodbe
creatsnc  of humanIs exrete and wsete-water by rater-borne system                     E timtd relative poverty isovee IeceI (US$ per capita) - i-ban and crol-
or the use  of pit Priisen   iilrSeclaloaearive povrty invose level is that icovee level less than on-third
population per physician - population divided by amber of practicing                        prcpit  pesoa   inunse of the Country.
Popalation per cursingperson - Papulstien divided by somber of                       percent of papolution (urban and rural)IuSe ore either "ubslI.r. poor' 
practicing male and female graduate nurase, practical nurses, and"rltv  poor"obbve   is greater.
fonoload Socia  lIatu  liuo
foEC.. to OAsalyeis and P-oincitunt Trporcnv-



2 22 -
A.nex I
Po1e 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVEL,OPMEN0T DATA
(Anonet- to Millions of US holis-)
1973         1974          1975         1976          1977          197          1974      1975    1976    1977    1978           1973    1975   1977   1978
NATIONAL AC-COIINTIs                               (Ms)Nt   c  95Pie  an   ahao   ae    0 Eech!2555)                                          Axos _Groth tate                          Ax Peren  of T
Gros  ixeli   onat15,233                                       15,340        14.773       16,117        17,020        17.667         1.7    -3.7        9.1      5.6      3.6        96.0  100.0  100.4  100.0
ococfr    ens  OTrd                                  506          383           -            -04            477         -137                                                             2     -         4         
Gros  D-.eltc~ I-cve                             15,739        15,725        14.773       16,013        16,933        17-.530       40.1     -6.1       8.4      1.9      3.4       100.0  100.0  100O.0  100.5
leports (cxi.1  lIFS)                             6,170         6,464        4.738         5,567         6,296        6,195         -4.9   -26.~7    17.5       13.:1    -1I.6       39.2   32.01   37.1   31.
conocl  (c       F iS)                            3.96 2       3_340         2.899         3,038         3,245        3 505        -1.7   -17.         4.8       .8       8.0        2 5.1   19.4    19.1   20.0 
Resn. rn  GaCp                                    2,208         3,124         1.839        2,529         3,051         2,690                                                         14.1   12.5   18.6   15.3
-      cPi.     p-oditoron-                12,723       1402          14,203       1553          16,021        161.331.2                         91       3.3      2.6         80.9   96.1   94.5   93.7
Eoeroofpetditor   (tori. NStrks)            4.719         4,452        2.409         3,143        4,050         3,924         -(.1    -5.7    305        28.8    -3.1          50.0   16.5   23.1    22.4
Oo,srxttt saoxsgn6,                  ~~~~~~      ~ ~~2,110  1,6308  5701         614          99          1.234   ~ 47.9   -58.4           7.7    6:2.7    23.5          15.9    5.9      5.9     7.0
No.ttoa   stg                                     4,055         2,620         1.93         1465          2034            .         -37.6   -39.       -80      4.2.                  258   100       12.
9tR_CHANDI1 TSE                                                     Ansul Data at _Csrr-   Pro_ox                                                                                        As  eeoo  of Total
Gaptrol gondo                                      621          061           565          607           693           .20.5   14.5   14.0
I-tnndixogod,                                   1.7 69        7,635        2,199         2,491         3,043         ..58.4   56.1   61.3
Fools sod  _rlat.d stlox193                                     575           621          696           743         ..6.0   16.0   15.0                                                                    ..
coox,e,etixo condo                   ~~~~          ~~~~~458  677  522          595          485          ..                                                            15 1   13.4      9.7   __
Total Norh. lP-ots (c 6 f 7                     3,031         4,6446        3,893        4,329         4,964        5,300                                                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
AgritaltOal prodort..                             340           369           524          512           334          ..16.0   16.0   16.5
Wnod ood Cork Prodo_                               775          366           306          551           364          ..14.8   15.6   17.9
T-otilo-, clothioig & f-oor-                       560          684           577          533           602                                                                       3       98 2~
m ohi-tOy ad or--nport eqaip-tl                   243           290           214          230           301                                                                       130.6   29.0   29.6
Other                                             420           569           474          396           4026        2.132    1 -45.1    16.2
Total North. GoPorts  (fob.)                    1. 8453       2-,278        1. 9-35      1,822         2,027        2,437                                                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MERCHIANDISE TRAct INDICES1                                                     1975   100
too.                                               BOcrten0     103           100           90           94           102
In,or  fri- lode                                   61            87           100           95           97           106
Tero  of icode Id-o                               431           119           100           95           97             9A
Esp-rt Volo-  itd-t                               119           114           100          105          II1           120
VL-UE 45007 0Y _SOTOLR                              (Annal Data a 190   rce   n   noanct   f51=En  25.5
A~gri- tr                                        ,71          719          2,131         2.163         1,947        2.044         -10      -2.7      1.5   -10.0        5.0        i.2   I15.9   02.t   12.0
Iodooty                                         6,080         6,322        5.731         5,929        6,601         6,883          4.0    -9.3       4.3     10.4      4.3        64.3   42.7   42.9   43.1
onroccen                              ±22~~~~~~~~~~~54    5.462  5_548      6_423          6.846       TJ.aI           (.0      1.6    15.8        5. 6     3L.0       39.5   41.4   44.   0_4_.1
Totn]                                          13,750        13,973       13,410        14,564        15,394       1598            1.8    -40        8.6       57       38        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
1975   1976   1971   1978
ou_nLIC  INANCE                                                               Grncfie                                                                                              sPro.   f00Nro   ro
Cnrrotro-li,"n                                                1,657         1,036        2.256         7,456         2,991                 10.8    22.9        8.9    21.8         12.4   14.5   14.0    16.5
Co -roro-ditonon                                         1,740         2,493        2,901         2,909         3,404                 43.3      166 4       2     19.          16.9   10.3   17.    19.-
Sb toln                                                    -83          -657          -645         -452          -493                                                           4.5    4.0      2.8    2.7
B.in--  ol Aolnt--., Foods otd
rI..c                                                         _55           _708          09          _324          142                                                           1.      0.6     1.9l    0.0
C    .rntIoict    Central Goor.                            -28          -78           -556         -29           -351                                                           2.       . 6            0.9
Roocec of Local 1lovrooo,ro~~~~~~~~~~            91          1566           1             1            49                                                           47    01        0.       93
Bo.noo I     o-is)            SIolo   vct                       -12           -94         -327          -112           -14                                                          C.      2.1    0.
Ce-..  Dot)cit of Foblic S--lo                                   51          -37          -867          -0222        -3)8                                                           2.5      I.,    1.      1.3I'
Cnpit',.ape-dit-,t                                              457           642          784     1   1,040         1,042                 40.5    22.1    30.7         0.2         4.3     5.0    6.3    5.t9
le- ofi                                                   -320          -681       -1,616        -1,168       -1500                                                             4.0   10.2      7.0     8.3
1.471)0 1110110 002 OUTOOT rio wooxos-                  ~~~~~~~~TODTAL LABOR FORCE"                             081.00 A0100 PEE WORRiER 81975 PRICES AND EXC9A840 RATE 51    Est  25.55)
Go 1  Thusoando           Vrroott of Total          A00001                     in US Dollars           Po-onr tIf A-eano             A--,0c  A-can1 roC-h Rotc
1974         1977         1974          197         Orth Rotc                    1974     1977              194      197174-7
A0,xi- too                                     1,500         1,219          34.5         32.2            -211,684   1,597                                       45       3918
ind.ontry                         ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~1,300  1,276  34.7     33.7             0.8                    4,87   5,173                  130      127                           2.
bocotern                 1.160         1.291         30.6         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__4. 1  3.               1       5.303                127      1304.
Tots)                                          3,767         3,786        100.0         100.0             2.2                    3,709   4,066                 100      100                           5.1
of  brtitti-l  dixrePso-Y Ix iorladod In tho  -ooxopti.o dstn.
h/  In-cIod _ook-r  roxtt.oe..
ITona  tnployod labor forc  rotlding  -ok-r  abrod cod acoployrd.
o E-xc'  go  Room ~ 0973:  71   fxL. 24.67; 1974:  $1 -  25.4089  1973:  $1I   Etc. 2555~; 1976: 51 =E.t. 30.23; 1971:  21   Etc  38.278; 1978:  21   E-ot  43
N- 11411 i



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Aoaunts in Millions nf U.S. Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual                          Estimated
1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Expoets (f.c3.U )                            1,843        2,278        1,935         1,823        2,027        2,437
ILeorts (',.1                                2,745        4.277        3,605        3,932        4,533         4,833
Trade  alnce (X-                              -902       -1,989       -1,670        -2,109       -2,506       -2,396
iet Non Factar   -ccice-                        67          -74         -169            26           52          195
Tourise ScececPs (Cross)                    (550)        (513)         (360)        (332)        (4031        (583)
Resourcc B;la8 cc                             -835       -2,063       -1,839       -2,083        -2,454       -2,201
Nct loves heed  IncoonL '                       86          129           -14         -133         -179         -327
Net traosfers_/                              1,097        1,111         1,037          972        1,134        1,585
culavec 00 (:urent AOre.,t                     348         -83          -817       -1.244       -1.499          -943
lirecit Forcign Inestment                      110          109           122           75           57
I'cblic MI:T L.a.
Disbursements                                158          153          231           249          387
caeortinocios                                 74           67            77           68           93
Met Disbursements                               84           86           154          181          294
,ther ILUl Loans
SNt Dishurb se-ets                            .            ..           ..           .            213
Short-Tetm Capit.l and l rEact aod
bnnisoio..                                    135         -82           -89          206          ..           .
other Capital (N.R.1.)                        -332           156          -58          641        1,046
Cbl-ageo  in official Liq-cd
f'oreign roehanUe Roserves
1 - Increase)                           -345          554          688          141         -111
:officialicore 0erc/                       .',813       2,292        1,535        1,385        1,450
I) which:  Gold                            1,149        1,181        1,137         1,125        1,025
farcigis E1hc-acgE             1,633        1,079           391          250          361
GcADS ASD LOAN COMDII5lELNTS                                                                                    DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE-/         1973    1974    1975    1976          1977
IlEfici.jI Cr.acUt & C:rust-lSc                -             -3                        -            -          Public Debt Outstonding
And Disborsed                 609      723      826   1,005       1,304
Pobilc MIbLr loans
IDol                                         -            -                           36           74         -ter-t an Public lDebt           24       22       35      38         5b
IDA                                          -            -            -            -             -         Repayme-ts on Public Debt          74      68       78       67         9J
I)t1ler ,llutilatt-al                        -             -            _            126           8B        Total Public Debt Service         98       90      113     105        149
Governments                                  -              20           45           96          113        Other M&LT Debt Service          ..       ..       ..       ..        33)
Scpplie-c                                     28            27           35           48           39        lotal MALT behr Sne-ire                  ..   . .          ..         4RI
Fi-ac lal Markets                            23          413            83          152          121
Public Loacs n.e.t.                          _            -             -                         -          BURDEN ON EXPORr. NON FACTOR
fetal Public M&L.T Loa,s                        51          460          163           458          435        SEREICES AND WORKERS
REMITTANCES 31
Public Debt Service           2.4      2.0      2.9      2.9        3.7
Total M&LT Debt Service        ..      ..       ..       .         11.9
Actuol Debt Oastandinp Jon Bee 31. 1977
'XIEISNAL DEBT                                              Disbursed Only                    Percent            Average Terms of Public Dccl
IBRD                                                             32                            2.4
IDA                                                              -                            -                  Interent us -t Prior YSar
Sthb- Multi-lateeal                                             163                           12.5                 DO&D                         4.8      3.6      4.8     4.b         5.,
321                          24.6                Amort. us 2 Prior YSar
Suppliers                                                       388                          29.8                  DO&D                        14.9    11.2    10.8       8.1        9.3
Financial Markets                                               400                          30.7
Public Dobts  -ci.                                               -                            -                IBiD Debt Out. & Disbursed   45.2    42.2    39.0    35.4            32.2
Tonal Public M&LT DBbt                                        1,304                         100.0              IBRD DO&OD  s ' Public
Debt Out. & Disborsed         7.4      5.8      4.7      3.5        2.5
18RD Debt Service as 2
Public Debt Service           6.3      6.9      5.6      5.0        4.7
a/  Largely interest paymnyts.
6l  Largely  korkers' remittcaces.
c/ Cold is -olued at officiol prices.
d/  Debt service as a ratio  of comings fron exports, eon  factor cervices and
corkers' remittaoces.
.ot -ntiloble                                                                                                                               Lurope, Middle Eist a-d Narth Africa Regia
Aeril 19. 1979



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year         Borrower       Purpose          Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed         57.5                  -
1301       1976    Electricidade de
Portugal           Power           36.0                 30.6
1334       1976    Republic of
Portugal           Highways        24.0                 22.1
1432       1977    Banco de Fomento  Development
Nacional           Finance         50.0                 43.9
1541       1978    Republic of         Water
Portugal           Supply          40.0                 40.0
1559       1978    Republic of
Portugal           Education       21.0                 21.0
1603       1978    Republic of         Agricultural
Portugal           Credit          70.0                 70.0 /a
1649       1979    Quimica de          Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.    Modernization  58.0                   58.0 /a
TOTAL                                      356.5               285.6
of which has been repaid                   29.2
TOTAL now outstanding                      327.3
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.1       .5
TOTAL now held by Bank /b                  326.8
TOTAL undisbursed                                              285.6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1979)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project is expected to be delayed more than one year because of
organizational changes in the Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project
scope and in the list of goods. These factors delayed procurement under the
loan and the start of significant disbursements, but the entire amount of the
loan is now committed.   EDP is being reorganized with emphasis on decentraliz-
ing management and merging municipal and small private electricity undertakings
with EDP. Mergers are expected to be completed by 1981. After a poor year in
1976 owing to the bad hydrological conditions, EDP's earnings in 1977 were
satisfactory. However, in 1978, EDP is not expected to generate much internal
cash, in spite of a 50 percent increase in tariffs, owing to large increases
in interest rates. EDP estimates that it will be able to generate 18
percent cash in 1979 and reach a self-financing level of 30 percent in
1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) has caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants. Selection is now completed and
consultants are on the job.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by
the Attorney General's office, it is hoped that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. The Bank has approved 61 sub-projects, and
a total of $21.8 million has been committed from the loan proceeds, as of
March 30, 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan has recently become effective and the contract for the
Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million) has been awarded. Works are
expected to proceed without delay.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant architects for all project institutions, including
management training centers, have been selected and have started work. All
sites for project institutions have been or are being acquired. In general,
overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  (not effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
is practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey and for the fish stock assessment survey; contract negotiations are
underway.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of engineering consultants is underway.



- 27 -                           ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  from December 1977
to August 1978
(b)  Agency responsible for preparation:               Junta Autonoma de
Estradas (JAE)
(c)  First Bank mission to consider project:           November 1977
(d)  Appraisal mission:                                August 1978
(e)  Negotiations completed:                           March 22, 1979
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:                       September 28, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action required.
Section III: Special Conditions for Loan Agreement
The borrower has given the following assurances:
(i) JAE will submit technical and economic feasibility studies
for each road section proposed for rehabilitation to the
Bank for approval before the start of each rehabilitation
(para. 46);
(ii) to be eligible for Bank financing, the economic return for
any road section to be rehabilitated must be equal to at
least 12 percent (para. 46);
(iii) JAE will provide engineering services for design and
supervision of the road rehabilitation program, through
an adequate number of its own qualified staff and, to the
extent necessary, through the National Laboratory and
consultants (paras. 47, 52); and
(iv) JAE will submit a training program to the Bank by July 1,
1981, and will implement it on a schedule acceptable to
the Bank (paras. 48 and 49).






C          :s |s9d VI.. -  ,   L        t*-_ *s
=~~~~~ Ch, =    vP{.d sg1M*NAD O
- 4 -     =  =- .  = .==   _ =  -   ! V  _  _  X  R O C   A L G R I
DZ                                 C~~CA



