Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20375-MA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(35710; 3571A; 357IS; 20305)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$107 MILLION
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR THE
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 15, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1993)
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00 = US$ 0.384
US$ 1.00 = M$2.605
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DSD           Development and Supply Division
ESSP          Education Sector Support Project
HRDF         Human Resources Development Fund
ITTHO        Tun Hussein Onn Technology Institute
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOHR         Ministry of Human Resources
MUCIA         Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities
NVTC         National Vocational Training Council
TAVED        Technical and Vocational Education Division
TED          Technical and Vocational Education Division
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Julian Schweitzer
Sector Manager/Director:   Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Omporn Regel



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     5
6. Sustainability                                                                         6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        8
9. Partner Comments                                                                       8
10. Additional Information                                                               13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    25
This doCument has a restricted disibution and may be used by recipe  only in the
performance of tr officia  duties. its cantets may not otherwise   be disclosed witon
World Bank u                 that.






Project ID: P004309                                        Project Name: MY-POLYTECHNIC DEVT
Team Leader: Ompom Regel                                   TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: March 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: MY-POLYTECHNIC DEVT                             L/C/TF Number: 35710; 3571A; 3571S;
20305
Country/Department: MAIAAYSIA                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: ET - Higher Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/10/91                                  Effective: 07/06/93            09/02/93
Appraisal:  09/17/91                                   MTR:
Approval:  03/16/93                                  Closing:  12/31/99            12/31/99
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: Government of Malaysia/Ministry of Education & Ministry of Human Resources
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                         Guatum Kaji
Country Manager:      Julian F. Schweitzer                       Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:       Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:   Ompom Regel
ICR Primary Author:   Robert L. Mcgough
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objectives were fully achieved. The objectives were to: (a) improve the
polytechnic system through decentralization; b) expand the training capacity of the polytechnic system; c) increase
the efficiency of the polytechnic system; d) improve the quality and availability of staff within the polytechnic
system; e) strengthen the implementation and management capacity of the Development and Supply Division



(DSD - later changed to the Development, Privatization and Supply Division - DPSD) and Technical and
Vocational Education Division (TAVED - later changed to Technical Education Department - TED) of MOE; f)
strengthen the capacity of Ministry of Human Resources (MOHR) to operate and maintain the Human Resources
Development Fund (HRDF); and g) strengthen the planning and research capacity of the National Vocational
Training Council (NVTC). The impact of the project was positive in all project institutions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged and the design was not modified. The loan agreement was amended
in January 1996 to: (i) increase the share of Bank financing for consultants' services from 80% to 100% and (ii)
reallocate the cost savings of US$3.4 million from Category (6) (a) (consultants' services) to Category (1) (civil
works).
The Fifth (1985-1990), Sixth (1991-1995) and Seventh (1996-2000) Malaysia Plans and the Second
Outline Perspective Plan (1991-2000) placed a high priority on the promotion of increased private sector
investment and growth. The development objectives of the project supported this goal through improving the
efficiency and capacity of technical education through establishing training practices that are market-oriented to
reduce structural unemployment and encourage greater labor absorption and mobility. The project components
were combined to encourage and support major reforms in a wide variety of areas including: curricula, teacher
training, introduction of new technologies and course offerings, and better linkages with industries and enhanced
student placement (better trained graduates and more relevant job placements).  The project design was
comprehensive and straightforward. The objectives were clearly conceived and were characterized by their
simplicity and efficiency. Overall, the project design and objectives were judged to be well prepared, effective in
design and, above all, realistic in their expectations for change, cause and effect.
The project design also included a successful and innovative staff development program. Using an
intemational technical assistance contractor (Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities -
MUCIA), the Government placed more than thirty technical teacher educators and administrators (for about 100
consultant years) at the staff development center at the Institute Teknologi Tun Hussein Onn (ITTHO - it was
converted to a teacher training institute from a polytechnic for the purposes of the project and as a result of its
success, the Government has decided to make the Institute a permanent establishment to provide training and
support). The group effectively worked side-by-side with Malaysian counterparts to ensure that technology and
teaching skills were fully transferred. Using these resources, with some additional recurrent support, ITIHO will
complete the training of at least 3000 teachers within the next few years. This will be about 200% more teachers
than originally planned for the project. This huge effort has significantly reduced the average unit costs of
technical teacher training as compared to typical costs for overseas fellowships. It has been estimated that there
has been a potential savings of at least US$100 million for the government. The project's unique approach to
teacher training has clearly demonstrated a more cost-effective way to provide large numbers of trained technical
educators within a national technical education delivery system.
3.3 Original Components:
Seven investment prograrns supported the project's main objectives, as follows:
Component 1 - Capacity Expansion: establishing three new polytechnics at Shah Alam, Penang (at
Seberang Prai) and Johor Bahru to create abouit 13,000 additional training places.
Component 2 - Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening: (i) establishing the structures to
support a training system that is driven by employer demand; (ii) introducing more cost recovery and
operational efficiency; (iii) decentralizing the control of the polytechnic institutes to the extent feasible;
and (iv) improving capacity utilization, teacher/student ratios, scheduling of services and the lowering of
unit costs.
-2-



Component 3 - Staff Development: establishing a Polytechnic Staff Training Center at Batu Pahat
Polytechnic (this was later named Tun Hussein Onn Technology Institute - ITTHO) to train teachers
including recruitment and training of about 1,000 new teachers and instructors for project institutions.
Component 4 - Curriculum Development: providing technical assistance to upgrade existing curricula
and develop new courses as necessary to expand the offering and service of the polytechnic system.
Component 5 - Related Studies: carrying out of three studies for the improvement of the polytechnic
system.
Component 6 - Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF): providing technical assistance and
training for the strengthening of HRDF.
Component 7 - National Vocational Training Council: providing technical assistance and training for
the strengthening of National Vocational Training Council.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not available.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The project met its overall development objectives. The justification for this assessment is based on: (i)
satisfactory project outputs, as summarized below; (ii) sustained Government commitment throughout project
implementation; (iii) good private sector participation; and (iv) an effective implementation agency. Based on
these factors, the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Capacity Expansion: Construction works at all three polytechnics were completed on
schedule and equipment was successfully installed before the closing date. Although faced with start-up delays
from inclement weather and contractor problems, the rescheduling of the civil works plans made implementation
more realistic and more manageable. The project design had taken into account such possible delays. The
unexpected delays at Penang were the result of additional site preparation work which involved extensive drainage
work and earth-fill. Although soil studies were carried out during preparation, the complicated drainage issues
were not fully understood or addressed during project preparation. Later, these issues were effectively addressed
with inputs from both Government and Bank sources.
All site architects and engineers were well qualified and the DPSD/TED staff effectively supervised work
in progress. Construction works at all three sites were well organized and well equipped. The capacity expansion
component was large, extremely complicated and not easy to organize and manage. Its successful implementation
is a major accomplishment and the outcome of this component is rated as fully satisfactory.
Component 2 - Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening: This component was designed to
support the implementation of a coordinated program of reforms throughout the polytechnic system. At project
completion, the following were achieved: (i) a more decentralized, demand-driven polytechnic system was put in
place; (ii) a National Advisory Committee was established for the system; (iii) local-level industry/education
advisory committees were established in all polytechnics; (iv) cost recovery policies were introduced that included
Time Share Programs with firms in existing institutions, a 25% increase in employer sponsored training and an
- 3-



establishment of student fee at RM2,000 per semester, (v) facility optimization policies were initiated for all
institutions; and (vi) career guidance counselors were effectively introduced to reduce drop-out rates (ref. Annex 1:
Key Performance Indicators). The Government provided a strong commitment to the implementation of this
component. As a result, the component made excellent progress during implementation and in a number of
instances, the activities were carried out ahead of schedule. The outcome of this component is rated as satisfactory.
Component 3 - Staff Development: Designed to improve the quality of new teachers and instructors, the
component has successfully trained: (i) 579 in a Master's (Technical Education) program, many of whom are
serving as polytechnic lecturers and an additional 121 will complete their programs by the end of year 2000, giving
a total target of 700; (ii) 740 in B.Sc. Engineering, which is above a target of 600; and (iii) 193 in Diploma courses
compared with the target of 200. For local fellowships, 110 scholarships were awarded for Bachelor degree
courses in local universities and 100 completed their training. For foreign fellowships, these programs include:
129 Bachelors in hotel catering management, tourism management, fashion design, graphic design, industrial
design and industrial design; 50 Masters in engineering and commerce and 30 in administration; and 6 Ph.Ds. in
engineering, commerce and technical education. Counterpart Training. This program was designed to train 12
senior lecturers to support on-going training activities in the various polytechnics and to provide future support to
the ITTHO after project completion and the departure of MUCIA. Ten lecturers have been trained under this
program. Continuation of the Staff Training Program: This training program at ITTHO and other local
universities is continuing with local funding, with 360 diploma in engineering candidates, 1,080 Bachelor degree
candidates and 120 on Masters programs. The first intake was July 1997 and the expected date of completion is in
year 2003. The outcome of the training capacity-building is satisfactory.
Component 4 - Curriculum  Development:   Curriculum  development and related equipment
identification and specification for a group of new specialized courses was to have been completed in July 1998
with the assistance of consultants under a contract with MUCIA. However, this activity was suspended due to
budget constraint during the 1997 economic downturn. By the time the consultants were asked to mobilize, the
identified specialists were not available to complete the assigmnent in 1998. To expedite this activity, the tasks of
curriculum development and equipment listing and specification were then assigned to a team of polytechnic staff,
with MUCIA validating their work. After completing the draft specifications in 1999, thirteen polytechnic staff
visited universities under MUCIA to be exposed to new curricula, equipment specifications, laboratory layout and
teaching-learning materials. Following their visit, 15 MUCIA consultants visited the polytechnics in Malaysia
where the proposed new courses were to be offered and validated the proposed curricula through visits to local
industries. A MUCIA consultant also visited Malaysia for two months to advise MOE regarding the establishment
of a career and guidance counseling system in the polytechnics. Two training courses were then conducted for 22
participants from all 12 polytechnics. The system is now being institutionalized in all polytechnics. Although
equipment for new courses can not be procured before the loan closing date, provisions had been made by the
Government to use its own funds for this effort. The objective of this component has been partially achieved and
the activity will continue beyond the project with the full expectation that all will be satisfactory.
Component 5 - Related Studies:  Significant outputs of this component include: (i) Polytechnic
Development Study (June 1997); (ii) Tracer Studies of Polytechnic Graduates (November 1999); and (iii) Employer
Study (February 1999). The consultants selected to carry out these studies were well qualified and produced high
quality outputs. The recommendations of these studies are being incorporated in an MOE action plan for the
polytechnics and therefore, the objective of this component has been successfully achieved.
Component 6 - Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF): This component has been successfully
implemented. The technical assistance provided was to develop and enhance the capacity of the HRDF Secretariat
in implementing the scheme to encourage private sector firms to provide company-specific training programs to
upgrade the work force with specialized and up-to-date skills. Both local and overseas training activities were
successfully implemented and most were completed during the first year of the project implementation. Three
HRDC staff completed short-term training in Taiwan, USA and Australia. The objectives of the component were
fully achieved.
-4 -



Component 7 - National Vocational Training Council (NVTC): The objective of this component was
to strengthen the capacity of the NVTC Secretariat. The technical assistance successfully supported: a) the
development of a national training philosophy and associated development strategies and action plans; b) the
development of a computerized national information system for research and planning; c) the establishment of an
evaluation methodology in vocational training; and d) the establishment of research methodology for identifying
training needs. Funding was also provided to conduct a research study to assess the skill training demand in the
metal-based industries and to train staff in statistical manpower projections and in data collection and analysis.
The objectives of this component have been fully achieved.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Value was not worked out in the SAR, therefore it cannot be calculated at the completion of
the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As in 4.3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As the increased training capacity of the Polytechnic System becomes fully operational, more than 13,000
additional persons will be able to access technical education/training over any given two-year period. With a
demonstrated placement rate of at least 90% following graduation, the project will provide an increase of about
6000 technicians and skilled workers each year. This sustained output of critically needed workers should have a
significant impact on the productivity of the nation's labor force over time.
Additional measures of institutional impact will not be available in the near future as the institutions are
just now coming on line as part of the existing polytechnic system. This ramp-up to full capacity will take about
two years. The Government will also conduct an impact study as a part of their continuing effort to refine and
develop more polytechnic capacity.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
,. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
1997 Economic Crisis: The project was negatively affected by the Asian economic crisis in 1997-98 when
the Government faced a difficult financial situation. This led to across-the-board reductions in budget allocations
for most ministries (including MOE) and a slowdown in most project activities. The implementation of the
Curriculum Development component was delayed by two years. Staff training and specification writing for new
courses were finally carried out in 1999 but this did not provide sufficient time for the procurement of equipment to
support these courses.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation Delays: Delays in MOF clearance and approval of consultant contacts and, of selected
overseas training candidates were evident during project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Civil Works  Johor Bahru- The construction was delayed due to additional time needed to obtain final
agreements with local authorities regarding site and types of program facilities required.
Penang (Seberang Prai) - The construction was delayed because additional work was needed
to prepare the site. This involved extensive drainage work and earth-fill. Soil surveys were
-5-



conducted, but they were not taken into account during the preparation of the original
schedules.
Procurement The delays in the completion of the physical facilities led to further delay in equipment
procurement. However, all equipment, except for the new courses, was successfully delivered
and installed before the closing date. Arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been made
to complete all the procurement of equipment for the new courses, using local funds, after the
completion date of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Considerable project cost savings have been realized. The Government disbursed US$75.65 million, or
about 71% of the original loan amount of US$107 million. These cost savings were primarily the result of the
1997 devaluation of the Malaysian Ringgit and the 1998 budget cuts which impacted the procurement of
equipment.
Implementation and disbursement delays: Delays in the execution of the civil works program which then
linked to equipment procurement were the main reasons for the initial slow disbursements which steadily improved
during implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Prospects for sustaining the project's outcomes are highly likely. At the policy level, the Government
remains strongly committed to the promotion and development of high-quality technical and vocational training, in
full partnership with employers. Successful initiatives supported under the project, such as the establishment of
ITTHO for staff development and the construction of the three new polytechnics are expected to continually be
funded by the Government own resources without any difficulties. Furthermore, government funding will be made
available during the Seventh Malaysia Plan to establish an additional three polytechnics. Funding is also available
from the Bank under the Education Sector Support Project (ESSP) to finance one new polytechnic in Kota
Kinabalu and upgrade six existing facilities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Most programs supported by the project are fully integrated activities within the MOE structure and are
expected to continue. At the institutional level, the ITTHO has become a permanent institution, with the
responsibility of managing and producing teaching staff for the entire expanding polytechnic system. This is a
positive move which will institutionalize professional technical teacher education and strengthen the quality of
service delivery. Both of these will help sustain the project's achievements.
The recommendations of the three studies funded under the project are being incorporated in the MOE
action plan for the polytechnics. An impact evaluation study has also been added to the project, for completion
shortly after project closing. The results of this study are intended to consolidate and improve existing monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms while making them a more permanent feature of the polytechnic system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Although this was a complex project on the construction side, the identification mission was able to
produce a thorough and comprehensive investment proposal that did not change much during subsequent stages of
processing. More than twenty quality working papers were produced and provided significant input to the
- 6 -



preparation of the Polytechnic Development Study financed under the project. The preparation missions paid
special attention to designing a training investment which was market responsive. Project development was
consistent with the Government's technical education sector policies and in line with the Bank's policy paper on
Technical Education and Vocational Training. Preparation and appraisal teams were well staffed and appraisal
was comprehensive. However, the appraisal team over-estimated the Borrower's implementation capacity and
produced an implementation plan which was ambitious, especially for the civil works. However, this problem was
quickly recognized by the team and, in agreement with the Government, the plan was revised to bring about a more
realistic schedule. The performance indicators were well prepared and continuously updated, making tracking of
project activities straightforward.
7.2 Supervision:
Implementation progress was adequately reported and project performance realistically rated. Problems were
correctly identified and promptly addressed, and covenants were strictly enforced. Staff gave significant advice
and showed considerable flexibility in solving implementation issues.  Supervision missions, at six-month
intervals, were adequately staffed. Relations with the Borrower were excellent throughout the project period.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated actively in the project's design and preparation, and made many significant
contributions to the soundness of its concept and scope.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government was (and remains) strongly committed to polytechnic system. This is evidenced by its request for
additional Bank support to continue its expansion of the system. This request was approved as a part of the
recently approved ESSP. Counterpart funds for the project were adequate. Covenants were in full compliance, and
there were no overdue audit reports throughout the project years.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency - MOEIDPSD was satisfactory. Despite some early delays in
project implementation mainly due to site preparation and the time needed during the start up phase to set up the
necessary systems and procedures, the management and coordination of this project, especially the large civil
works component, were well handled by DPSD. Procurement of equipment was achieved as scheduled but
disbursement for this component was not completed by the closing date and fell significantly short of the loan
allocations by about US$ 22 million. However, objectives of the project have been fully met and all components
have been well implemented. Staff commitment to the job was evident and initial weaknesses in procurement,
disbursement and financial management were effectively addressed during implementation. The DPSD, the
project implementation unit, was well-staffed and budgeted to effectively carry out the implementation of the
project. Both the DPSD and the TED performed well in their coordination with the Bank during project
implementation. However, closer coordination between the two units could further increase their effectiveness to
implement future external funded projects.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
-7-



Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from this project are:
(a)    Even large, infrastructure-based projects such as this one can be broken down into clearly designed,
straight forward, and easy to understand elements which may then be formed into the components of the project.
This in turn, allows for efficient implementation. It is important that, in such projects, extra effort be made during
project preparation to be realistic in the estimates of cost, time and effort that must be made to turn the plan into
reality. Mistakes made in this process are often magnified as the implementation takes place.
(b)    The use of contractor supported, in-country teacher training, can significantly reduce the costs for teacher
training as compared with the costs for international fellowships to train the samne number of teachers. As
mentioned earlier, the project clearly demonstrated the viability of this approach.
(c)    As with many projects of that era, this was an input-oriented operation that did not lend itself easily to the
assessment of improvements in the quality and relevance of vocational training. A future operation should
establish a Performance Management Framework to provide early and continuous assessment of both outcomes and
impact of the project on all stakeholders. This should include evaluations to measure the effect of investments in
capacity building, improved training facilities and better-trained staff, and the cost effectiveness of public sector
training.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.   Project Objectives
The Government and the Bank on 31 December 1993 agreed on a Loan Agreement to undertake the
implementation of Polytechnic Development Project .The Project would establish three polytechnic institutes near
industrial areas. The institutes would provide about 13,000 additional training places. The Project would also
promote a more decentralized, demand-driven polytechnic system through the implementation of reforns in
policies and organizational structures. Associated with these reforms the Project would increase the efficiency of
the polytechnic system. To provide the required personnel to staff the institutes, the Project would train about 1000
new teachers and instructors and 36 administrators. Loan proceed amounting up to US 107 million is disbursed
through six categories, namely, i) civil works, ii) equipment and vehicle, iii) furniture, iv) books and materials v)
training and vi) consultants' services
2. Achievement of Project Objectives
The period 1993-1999 observed remarkable efforts by the various implementation divisions to realize the
objectives of the Project. From the physical development aspect, the most crucial element in project
implementation is the delivery of the completed projects. Unfortunately, none of the three polytechnics were
completed on the initial targeted dates. However, the delays were mostly caused by factors beyond the control of
Ministry Of Education (MOE). Brief accounts of the implementation of each of the polytechnics are as follows:
2.1 Physical Aspect
Shah Alam Polytechnic
This was first project to get off the ground. Construction commenced on 15 November 1994 and was
- 8 -



initially scheduled to be completed by 13 December 1996. However delays occurred due to the late
settlement of problems pertaining to the relocation of squatters on the project site as well as additional
requirement by the Local Authorities imposed close the targeted completion date, particularly the need to
realign the access road and its electricity supply posts. Appropriately, the contractor was given a
six-month extension of time until 15 May 1997
Within this extension period some buildings were dully completed and section ally handed over to the
Ministry beginning from April 1997. However, as the revised completion date approach a new problem
surfaced when the Nominated Subcontractor for built-in furniture faced financial problem and had to be
terminated. The main contractor took over the uncompleted works and was further granted approximately
six months extension of time. This took the final completion date to 27 November 1997. Despite the
outstanding furniture works, which the Ministry felt was not a hindrance, the first intake of students was
successfully conducted in July 1997
The original contract sum for the project was RM 67,168,000.00 but it is anticipated that the final cost
will be RM 74,078,222.43, the variation of approximately 10% being additional works as well as
remeasurement of items under provisional sum. Variation works were inevitable in most cases and
presented in detail to the Ministry's top management for approval before being executed.
Seberang Prai Polytechnic
Tihis was the next polytechnic to be constructed after Shah Alam Polytechnic but took the longest time to
be completed. Work commenced on I December 1994 and was originally scheduled to be completed on 25
March 1998, a construction of about forty months. The nature of the proposed site, originally a paddy field
and its soil condition warranted the lengthy construction period. As a matter of fact, the first one and half
years were spent on earthworks and soil treatment alone.
To make matter worse, nine months after construction commenced the Local Authorities started to impose
new structure requirements that include additional drains along the perimeter of the site, the widening of
the concrete monsoon drain that runs across the site from six to twelve meters and the lowering of
platform way,'forced' to cater for the infrastructure necessities of upcoming surrounding developments.
These additional works alone had costs the Ministry close to RM 20 millions. The new-targeted
completion date was the set on 5 November 1998.
One of the direct consequences of the new requirement to lower the platform level of the site mentioned
above was the need to entirely redesign the external water supply and sewerage reticulation system. As
soon as the new design was ready, fresh submissions were made to the Local Authorities but they were
slow in granting appropriate approvals and thus causing a further delay to the main contractor's already
tight schedule. As a result an additional extension time was given until 31 March 1999
By mid 1998 building works were progressing well only the external works were being hampered by
delays. Considering the acceptable condition of building the Ministry made a decision to take over some
buildings section ally beginning September 1998 to facilitate the accommodation of core administrative
staff as well as the installation of equipments and loose furniture.
By January 1999, 80 percent of the buildings had gradually been taken over. The first batch of students
were recruited the following month after assurance from the project consultants and contractors that the
building that were to be occupied were safe for the students and staff.
This project is noted for its high escalation because of its unusually large variation works but as explained
earlier, more than half the amount was due to specific requirements by the Local Authorities a big portion
of the remainder due to remeasurement of earthworks and piling that was originally estimated at more
than RM 32 millions. The anticipated final contract sum now stands at approximately RM 133 millions
-9-



against the original sum of RM 94,990,000.00.
However this additional expenditure incurred on the upgrading of the surrounding infrastructure must be
viewed from a more positive perspective. It was inevitable that the works had to be done, if not by the
Ministry then by the Local Authorities themselves. Either way the cost would have to be sourced from
Government funds. Left to the Authorities, the works most likely would not be ready by the time the
Polytechnic was completed and thus creating another set of problems for the Ministry.
Joher Bahru Polytechnic
This Polytechnic was the last to be launched with construction works commencing on 15 Jun 1995. It was
set in a straightforward condition almost simnilar to the Shah Alain Polytechnic and hence the completion
period was determined at slightly over two years. The completion date was then fixed on 9 July 1997.
The main contractor started off well with this project but halfway through their progress was held up,
again by matters relating to requirements of the Local Authorities. This time it was the regional
Department of Sewerage, which was slow in issuing comments and approval for the sewerage system
designed and submitted by the project consultants way before construction began. This slow process of
approval was quite understandable as the regional department was small and had to cope with sudden
burst of development in the construction of the polytechnic. For this the contractor was awarded about six
months of extension time, pushing the new-targeted completion date to 15 January 1998.
Construction progressed smoothly until the third quarter of 1997. At this time progress began to
deteriorate due to the main contractor's poor internal management and financial problem. It was
apparent that they were beginning to be affected by the economic crisis that hit the nation at that time.
In order to minimize delays, the Ministry and project consultants tried to steer the contractor but the
efforts proved to be futile. Stern warnings were regularly issued and even contract termination was
hinted but the situation did not improve. Coupled with wet weather conditions that hampered external
works, it was evident by the year-end that the new date of completion would not be met.
By then the contractor had completed about 80 percent of the total work and the outstanding works
were the finishing touches to the buildings and most of the external works. Upon advice by the project
consultants the Ministry awarded another extension of time amounting to six months that establish a
new completion date on 15 July 1998. In the consultant's opinion the contractor had a genuine case of
financial difficulties due to nationwide economic crisis that hit other contractors as well. Termination
of the contract was not advisable as it would involve a long process and besides, the contractor's
outstanding work was relatively small.
In June 1998 half of the buildings were taken over sectionally as they were already completed and
deemed fit by the consultants to be occupied. On 15 July 1998, the targeted final completion date, the
remaining buildings and facilities were taken over just in time for the first student intake a week later.
The anticipated final contract sum now stands at approximately RM 75,000,000.00 against original
sum of RM 67,870,000.00. With this the total variation cost comes up to about 10 percent of the
original cost and this includes unavoidable works as well as remeasurement of qualities under
provisional sum.
2.2  Procurement Aspect
For all the three polytechnic procurement of equipment was successfully delivered and installed before
the closing date. As for Johor Bahru Polytechnic, the original procurement operation was suspended
in early 1998 due to budget constraint. It was restarted in June 1998 but following project review in
- 10-



June 1998 and also strong recommendation to proceed together with the procurement of equipment
for Seberang Prai. Equipment for new courses cannot be procured before the closing date. However,
effort had been made to make sure that all procurement of equipment for new courses is done using
the local fund.
2.3. Staff development and Curriculum Development Aspect
Most objectives for staff development aspects were achieved. As for curriculum development, out of
fifteen new proposed courses twelve were selected for implementation in the polytechnics. Generally
the project was successfully carried out. The format of the project which consisted of an initial
attachment of local polytechnic staff to MUCIA's institutions and follow through by an attachment of
consultants to the polytechnics involved were very beneficial. This format particularly enabled the
local polytechnic staff to obtain very useful first hand experience of the set up and operation of similar
courses in established institutions.
2.4. Related Studies
All the three studies, i) Polytechnic Development Study, ii) Employer Study, and iii) Tracer Study
were successfully completed in time and yielded useful findings. The findigs have been presented at
various forums. The respective divisions of the Technical Education Department are implementing
some of the recommendations while others are under review.
3.     Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors beyond the control of government or implementing agency
Due to changes of exchange rate from US$1.00 = RM 2.50 originally from the loan agreement to RM
3.80 as a result of economic crisis in 1997-98, the borrower cannot fully utilize the loan. Related to
the economic turnoil, government had review the policy of sending officer for short-term courses and
does it locally instead. As a result MOE were not in the position to fully spent the loan.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
From the physical aspect, factors affecting delay in progress implementation of projects were as
follows:
(a) Local authorities Requirements
This is a perennial problem that plagues not only the implementation of all three polytechnics but
other educational projects under the ministry as well. It had singularly caused delays as well as
additional costs to the three polytechnics. There are two major issues to the problem, one is the
requirement by the Authorities to provide new or upgraded drainage, access roads and water supply to
cater fro surrounding developments and the other being late processing of approvals.
The Seberang Prai and Johor Bahru Polytechnics were the first development to be launched in an
undeveloped area. Being the pioneer and catalyst for future growth the projects were being saddled by
the need to provide infrastructures amenities to the surrounding neighborhood. Under normal
circumstances the Ministry would pay a certain agreeable contribution cost to the Authorities but did
not expect to be burderied with the actual construction of these facilities.
It will not be as bad if the requirements were made known earlier so that the appropriate funds can be
sourced and the scope of work captured in the building documents but more often than not, as in the
case of the Seberang Prai Polytechnic, the requirements were imposed long after planning
submissions were made and construction works already well ahead, leaving the Ministry with little
- 11 -



choice but to treat the additional works as variation.
On matters pertaining to late approvals, the Ministry can only hope for the Local Authorities,
especially the smaller ones, to strengthen their manpower and reduce bureaucracy in order to speed up
the approval process.
(b) Insufficient Supervision Manpower
With the consent of the Ministry of Finance, a site supervision team was set up for each of the
Polytechnic during the period of construction. This team each comprised a Resident Architect, Clerk
of Works for each of the architectural and engineering disciplines, and a general clerk. This team
played a crucial role in determining arnong others, the conformance, quality, workmanship and
coordination of the construction of the forty odd buildings spread over an area of hundred acres.
However the Ministry continuously faced the problem of the unattractive remuneration approved by
the Ministry of Finance for these supervisory staff, which was way below the market value.
Consequently some of these posts remained vacant for a long time especially so for those of the
Mechanical and Electrical Clerk of Work. In the end the project suffered in terms of poor
workmanship, inefficiency and miscoordination that resulted in things turning out the way they
should not.
To overcome this problem a proposal had been forwarded to the Ministry of Finance to included site
supervision within the scope of the project consultants' services instead of treating it as separate
package. A request was also made to increase the number of the site staff accordingly in order to cope
with the bigger scope of future polytechnics
(c) Subcontracts
Some of the equipments used in the courses conducted by the polytechnics required specific services
that had to be provided earlier together with civil works such as gas and compressed air supply, saw
dust and welding fume extraction system, fumace installation and the like. The Shah Alam
Polytechnic alone had eight such services. Due to the specialized nature of the works separate bids
were called for each of these services with values ranging from RM 65,000.00 to RM 700,000.00. The
main problem with this arrangement was that too few bidders participated in the bidding and the
offers received were not competitive enough. Difficulties were also faced in coordinating and
monitoring the numerous subcontractors on site during construction. To overcome this problem, in
future the Ministry will group these services into fewer packages to reduce the number of
subcontracts.
4.     Evaluation of Bank's Performance
The Bank has provided significant input into the preparation and implementation of the projects. The
Bank's officials had dispensed their responsibilities diligently and had contributed a great deal in materializing
this project. The Bank's personnel also were willing to discuss issues and problems faced by the implementing
agency and giving advice accordingly. However, there was a lack of continuity in the interpretation of
procurement guidelines. As Bank staff and management changed, procurement guidelines were interpreted in
different and sometimes confusing ways.
5.     Lesson Learned
The relationship between the Bank and the Borrowers has been cordial. Issues of concern were
discussed openly and attempts to resolve them were made as soon as possible. However, the MOE would also
- 12 -



like to suggest to the Bank to consider the following;
(a)   The Bank should be consistent and persistent in carrying out their policies and on type of information
and data to be furnished by the borrower.
(b)   There should also be more flexibility and continuity given to the interpretation of the various
documentation requirements of the Bank.
(c)   Officers involved in the Project must be able to conceptualize the standing procedure related to the
Project, especially those concerning reimbursement of expenditures.
(d)  Issues and problems should be addressed at the earliest possible date
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
As with many projects of that era, this was
an input-oriented operabon that did not lend
itself easily to the assessment of
improvements in the quality and relevance of
vocational training. A future operation should
establish a Performance Management
Framework to provide early and continuous
assessment of both outcomes and impact of
the project on all stakeholders. This should
include evaluabons to measure the effect of
investments in capacity building, improved
training facilities and better-trained staff, and
the cost effectiveness of public sector
training.
Output Indicators:
System Capacity Expansion
1. Additional full-time institubon on-based   10,360 students                More than 13,000 student places
places                                                                       established.
2. Additional part-time instution on-based   1,280 students                  More than 5,000 student places established.
places
Policy Reform Issues
1. National advisory committee        Committee established                  Established as planned.
2. Local advisory committee           Committee established at existing institutions Established as planned.
Committee established at new institutons
3. Local advisory committee                                                  Established as planned.
Cost Recovery
A. Time share Programs with Firms (TSP)
Initiate two pilot programs       Pilot program initiated in existing institutions  Pilot programs established in all new
institutions.
Initiate full-scale program, existing  Full program in existng institutons  Full programs established in all existing
institutions                                                                institutons.
Initiate full-scale program, new  Full programs in new institutons       Full programs are being established in new
institutons                                                                  institutons.
B. Employer Sponsored Training
Increase system participaton     25 per cent over 1991                  Goal of 25% has been exceeded in most
institubons.
- 14 -



C. Student Fee Policy
Review current fee policy         Review canied out                      Review has been completed, new policy
implemented.
Intemal Efficiency
A. Personnel
Review teacher salary and benefit  Review carried out                   Teacher salary review has been completed
structures                                                                   and new policy implemented.
Reach optmum staffing levels in all    Staffing levels reached          OpUimum staffing Is still lacking, but efforts
institugons                                                                  are being made to reach optimum levels.
Employ administrators in new institutes Administrators employed         All administrators have been employed.
B. Student Guidance and Counseling
Program
Introduce professional counselor in new Counselors introduced           Complete.
insttutions
Train 21 teacher counselors for existing 21 teachers counselors          Training goals exceeded.
institutions
C. Administrative Technology
Introduce computerized administrative   System ntroduced                 Complete.
system In existing institutions
Introduce computerized administrative   System introduced                Complete.
systems In new institutons
D. Audio-Visual Aids and Ubrary Materials
Introduce use of audio-visual specialist Specialists employed           Specialists were employed, some part-time.
in new insttutions
Introduce use of audio-visual specialties Specialists employed          Specialists were employed, some part-time.
in existng institutions
Introduce use of professional librarians Ubrarians employed             Professional Ubrarians were employed in
in new institutions                                                          most institutions.
Introduce use of professional librarians Ubrarians employed             Professional Ubrarians were employed In
In existing istitutions                                                      most institutions.
-15 -



E. Computerized Curriculum Services
Introduce use of computers in    Computers introduced                   Computers introduced.
cuniculum development in new insutibons
Introduce use of computers in     Computers introduced                  Computers introduced.
curriculum development in existing
institubons
F. Optimum ublizabon of Fadlites
Introduce optimizaton policy      Policy introduced                     Policy refined and introduced.
Initative optimizaton policy in new  Facilites optmized                 Policy introduced and facilites modificatons
institutions                                                               initiated.
Initate optimizabon policy in existing    Facilites opbmized            Policy introduced and facilites modificabons
insUtutions (1 institubons each year)                                      initiated. New IBRD project will address all
items in 'F."
Decentralize Authority
For curiculum decision            Fully impemented                      Fully implemented.
To establish contracted industry-based  Fully implemented               Fully implemented.
training
To use ad hoc advisory committees    Fully implemented                  Fully implemented.
To conduct operational research studies Fully implemented               Fully implemented.
To initate training contracts     Fully implemented                     Fully implemented.
Strengthen DPSD
Engage full-time architect for four years
Architect engaged                     Approach was modified, but spirit of the
Strengthen TED                                                              agreement was fully implemented.
Appoint Deputy Director
Dep. Director appointed               TED was reorganized with a much improved
administrative structure induding the
appointment of a highly qualified and trained
Establish task force                                                    managers in key positions.
Task force established                Established, findings led to the
reorganizabon of the TED.
Staff Development
A. Project Center for Staff Development
Train engineering graduates as
polytechnic teachers
450 B.Sc. graduates                   740 trained or currenty in training.
Train engineers, commerce graduates,
home economics graduates
700 graduate degrees                  A total of 700 trained or currentiy in training.
Train non-degree instructors
200 instructors                       193 trained or in training.
Counterpart training
12 counterparts                       10 trained.
-16 -



B. Local Fellowships
Train selected commerce teachers    110 fellowships                    100 scholarships offered and accepted.
C. Foreign Fellowships
Train bachelors degree teachers  130 degree teachers.                  129 trained or in training.
Post-graduate degree programs in    56 post-graduates.                50 master degree teachers trained.
specialized fields
Short-terms fellowships (3 months) in  74 fellowships                  Number unavailable.
specialized fields
Administrator training-masters   30 degrees                            30 trained or currently in training.
Administrator training-Ph.D.     6 degrees                             6 Ph.Ds. trained.
Curriculum Development
Development new courses          16 courses                            Development complete.
Related Studies
Conduct tracer studies of existing  Study completed                    Complete (November 1999).
polytechnics
Conduct local employer surveys   3 surveys completed                   Complete (February 1999).
Conduct program reviews          6 reviews conducted                   6 reviews complte.
Conduct Polytechnic Development  Study conducted                       Complete (June 1997).
Study
Human Resouroe Development Fund
Short terms fellowships for fund staff  10 months                      Complete (1994). Staff completed training in
Taiwan, USA and Australia.
Consultancy services for design and    16 months                       Complete.
implementaton of fund
National Vocational Training Council
Short-term fellowship for council staff  6 months                      Complete.
Consultancy services             12 months                             Complete.
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million equivalent)
Capacity Expansion                                   115.90           95.03             80
Policy Refonn/Institutional Strengthening              0.20            0.18             90
Staff Development                                     32.20           28.46            80
Curriculum Development                                 1.20            0.80            60
Related Studies                                        0.70            0.50             70
HERD Fund                                              0.20            0.18             90
NVTC                                                   0.10            0.10            100
Total Baseline Cost                                  150.50          125.25
Physical Contingencies                               14.60
Price Contingencies                                  19.90             .
Total Project Costs              185.00
Total Financing Required              185.00           125.25
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Apraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.~~~~~~~~~t6                              .._7 Tta C~t  w 
1. Works                    71.30         9.00         0.00                      80.30
(20.90)      (3.20)       (0.00)         (          (24.10)
2. Goods                    33.40         17.00        2.00                      52.40
(26.50)      (11.00)      (2.00)        ()          (39.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         34.40                     34.40
(0.00)       (0.00)      (26.40)          L         (26.40)
4. In-country training       0.00         0.00         0.80                       0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)         0          (0.80)
5. Overseas training.        0.00         0.00         14.70                     14.70
(0.00)       (0.00)      (14.70)         0          (14.70)
6. Book and Instl Mat'Is     0.00         0.00         2.00                       2.00
()       ~     ~~0 (1.60?                     (1.60)
Total                    104.70        26.00        53.90         0.00        184.60
(47.40)      (14.20)      (45.50)       (0.00)      (107.10)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements lActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million eauivalent)
tP"     W0Y                 C           _                         NF         Totl Ost
1. Works                    69.40                      0.00         0.00         69.40
26.94)                                 (0.00)       (26.94)
2. Goods                    12.01         10.60        3.02         0.00         25.63
-18-



(7.20)          (6.36)         (3.02)          (0.00)          (16.58)
3. Services                                                       19.26            0.00            19.26
(0.00)          (0.00)         (19.26)         (0.00)          (19.26)
4. In-country training                                             0.80            0.00            0.80
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.80)         (0.00)           (0.80)
5. Overseas training                                              10.98            0.00            10.98
(0.00)          (0.00)         (10.98)         (0.00)           10.98
6. Book and Insti Mat'ls                                           1.72                            1.72
()____________________  0  1  (1.16)           (             (1.16)
Total                          81.41           10.60           35.78           0.00            127.79
_______ ___________   (34.14)      (6.36)         (35.22)          (0.00)         (75.72)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
ProJect Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
,_           _          , -     ,    . . .    c ,* *D' ' : . * '0,. 9v'4 . Sn eF . ;  I C oP.
Civil Works and Prof.      24.10      56.20                 26.94      42.46               111.8   75.6    0.0
services
Equipment                  37.80      9.80                  16.05      9.05                42.5   92.3    0.0
Furniture                  1.60       3.60                  0.53       3.53                 33.1   98.1    0.0
Books and Insti Mat'ls     1.60       0.40                  1.16       0.56                 72.5   140.0   0.0
In-Country Training        0.80                             0.80                           100.0   0.0    0.0
Overseas Training          14.70                            10.98                           74.7    0.0    0.0
Consultants related to civil   3.40   8.00                             3.00                 0.0    37.5    0.0
works
Other consultants          23.00                            19.26                           83.7    0.0    0.0
Total                     107.00      78.00                 75.72      58.60                70.8   75.1    0.0
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
These were not calculated for this project.
-20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                                      _
Stage of PrGject Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Perform   Rain
(e. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Develpment
MonthYear    Count        Specialty                        Ptogress          Objective
Identification/Preparation          4   Industrial Training Specialist/
11/90- 04/91                       Economist/ Architect/ Technical
Education Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/91 -02/93                  5   Industrial Training
Specialist! Economist/
Architect/ 2 - Technical
Education Specialists
Supervision
05/93                          2  Technical Education                  HS                HS
Specialist/ Procurement
Specialist
12/93                          2  Technical Education Specialist/      HS                HS
Procurement Specialist
04/94                          3  Technical Education Specialist/      HS                HS
Procurement Specialist/Industrial
Training Specialist
11/94                          2  Procurement Specialist/Industrial    HS                HS
Training Specialist
09/95                          3  Industrial Training                  HS                 HS
Specialist/Architect/
Implementation Specialist
06/96                          3  Industrial Training                  HS                HS
Specialist/Architect/
Implementation Specialist
02/97                          2  Technical Education Specialist!      HS                HS
Industrial Training Specialist
12/97                          3  Industrial Training Specialist/      HS                HS
Technical Education Specialist/
Architect
06/98                          1  Technical Education Specialist        S                 S
01/99                          2  Technical Education Specialist!       S                 S
Architect
04/99                          3  Technical Education Specialist/       S                 S
Architect/ Operations Officer
10/99                          3  Technical Education Specialist!       S                 S
Architect! Operations Officer
10/99                          3  Technical Education Specialist!       S                 S
Architect/ Operations Officer
- 21 -



ICR
10/99                        3   Technical Education                  S                 S
SpecialistV Architect/
Operations Officer
(b) Staff
Identification/Preparation              83.1                       184.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   35.0                        81.2
Supervision                             92.0                       211.0
ICR                                      10.0                       20.0
Total                                  220.1                       496.2
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
f Institutional Development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
3Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
E Government implementation performance             OHS O S  0 U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U  0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IBRD Loan Agreement. April 7, 1993.
IBRD Staff Appraisal Report. February 19, 1993.
IBRD Final Supervision /Completion Mission Aide-Memoire. October 1999.
-25 -



