1 ,-tV       - S       //         /        A
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5704-Ml
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
LNTRATIO IAL .W  FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$107.0 MILLION
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
POLTElCHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 19, 1993
r,1:CR3jFIf7H! COP'i
T;t1 e:   POL 'r ELr 1 .!    L  f '           K '
F)u t hcr   -7xL     
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(as of February 1993)
Currency Unit - Ringgit (O$)
M$1.00        - US$0.384
US$1.00          X X$2.605
UEIGHIS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND_ARRM
AFTA   - ASEAN Free Trade Area
ASEAN - Association of East Asian Nations
BOT    - Build, Operate, Transfer
CCST   - Cabinet-level Committee on Skill Training
DSD    - Development and Supply Division (under MOE)
EPU    - Economic Planning Unit (under Prime Minister's Department)
FDI   -Foreign Direct Investment
COM    - Government of Malaysia
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
KLSE   - Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
MIDA   - Malaysia Industrial Development Authority
NOE    - Ministry of Education
MOHR   - Ministry of Human Resources
MOLM   - Ministry of Labour and Manpower (now MOHR)
NAFTA - North America Free Trade Area
NGO    - Non-Governmental Organization
NVTC   - National Vocational Training Council
TAVED - Technical and Vocational Education Division (under MOE)
UTM    - Universiti Teknologi Malaysia
VTE    - Vocational and Technical Education
January 1 - December 31
JunE1MIC YEAR
June 1 - May 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Malaysia
Beneficiary:        Not Applicable
Amount:             US$107.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 17 years including 5 years of grace
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlendine Terms:    Not Applicable
Financing Plan:
Local Foreign   Total
--- (US$ million) ----
IBRD                   0.0     107.0   107.0
Government            78.0       0.0   78.0
Total                  1. 0L7.0   185.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 10253-MA
IBRD No. 23413
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tr.e performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ba' >  jtiorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$107.0
million to help finance a project for the development of the polytechnic
system. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with
a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
I. Country Policies and Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
A. Recent Performance
Historical PersRective
2.        The current optimism in Malaysia, reflueted in the target of achieving
developed country status within the next thirty years, is based on impressive
economic growth in the recent past. In the last twenty years, economic growth
averaged 6.4 percent a year in real terms. In 1992, income per capita was close
to US$3,000 and Malaysia is on the verge of becoming an upper middle-income
country. Clearly, this owes much to a favorable combination of factor endowment,,
and rarkets.   However,  much credit is also due to prudent macroecononc
management, particularly since the mid-1980s, a high rate of domestic savings,
sound policies for long-term development, and implementation by well-managed
public institutions. Achievements in Malay poverty alleviation, educational
advancement and improved race relations are significant. These social policy
achievements also facilitated Malaysia's remarkably quick adjustment to and
recovery from the severe economic recession of 1985-86.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s when per capita GDP growth averaged 4.9 percent per
annum, somewhat higher than the 4 percent annual growth achieved in the 1960s.
This sustained good performance was a reflection of several factors, including
the country's wealth  in natural  resources,  especially  ample reserves  of
cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented growth strategy; favorable
developments in the world economy; good economic and financial management; and
stable social and political institutions. Three elements were important: first,
substantial attention and priority was given to agriculture, resulting in high
productivity gains in the sector which cushioned it against occasionally steep
commodity price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about
12 percent per annum, in the last two decades, initially led by domestically-
oriented subsectors, but more recently led by export-oriented industries; and
third, the economy has been kept very open. Exports reached 84 percent of GNP
in 1991, while imports, fueled by high growth and an average nominal tariff rates
of 13 percent, have risen to 70 percent of GNP. Furthermore, the increasing
export-orientation of the economy was accompanied by a transition from an initial
dependence on rubber and tin to a broadly diversified basket including palm oil,
logs, petroleum and gas, cocoa and manufactured got's.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with 58 percent of the population
Malay and other indigenous groups (known as "bumiputra"), 32 percent Chinese, and
the remainder largely of Indian origin. At the time of independence, the country



-2-
inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between ethnic
communities. Poverty affected all ethnic groups, but was disproportionately high
among Malays; their average per capita incomes were only half those of the
Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a New Economic Policy (NEP),
to be effective through 1990, and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and ownership
of assets. Considerable progress has been made in poverty alleviation. By 1987,
only 18.6 percent of households were living below the poverty line in rural areas
and 4.5 percent in urban areas, compared with 44.8 percent and 21.8 percent of
households in 1973. In addition, there has been substantial progress towards
reducing interracial disparities in income and asset ownership.
Recent Economic Policies and Performance
5.        Malaysia has enjoyed sustained economic growth in the six years
following the recession of 1985-86. The average growth rate of 8.4 percent per
annum achieved in this period rests on Malaysia's competitive advantage on
account of: (i) sound macroeconomic management; (ii) a pragmatic, market oriented
development strategy; and (iii) a disciplined and educated labor force.  Recent
economic developments indicate that as Malaysia industrializes and approaches
middle-income country status, it will need to watch the emerging trends in these
areas carefully.
6.        Underlying the continued macroeconomic stability, as seen in high
growth and low inflation rates (under 5 percent), have been judicious fiscal and
monetary policies for managing domestic aggregate demand. Liberalized tax and
regulatory treatment has contributed to the whole of Malaysia as destination for
foreign direct investment, which averaged US$6 billion in the last three years
and has been the driving engine of the economy. This could have resulted in
excess liquidity and potential inflationary pressure, but the central bank
effectively addressed this through its open market operations. The exchange rate
has also been managed within a narrow band, allowing a slow appreciation of the
ringgit in response to the large inflow of portfolio funds taking advantage of
the buoyant performance of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) and the
interest rate differential between Singapore and Malaysia.   The resulting
macroeconomic stability has boosted business confidence and resulted in high
growth.
7.        Malaysia is firmly committed to a pragmatic, market-oriented approach
to development.   This is recognized in the post-1990 development strategy,
presented in the Second Outline Perspective Plan (1991-2000), which prescribes
a supportive role for the Government through investment in skill and
infrastructure upgrading but which recognizes Government's fiscal limitations.
In that sense, the privatization program is now in full gear, with private sector
firms being invited to participate in mass urban transport, the power and gas
sectors,  water and sewerage.   This would allow  the expansion of public
infrastructure without an increasing financial burden on the budget, if it is
implemented judiciously.
8.         The  competitive  edge  enjoyed  by  Malaysia  on  account  of  its
disciplined and educated labor force and relatively low unit labor costs, will
be harder to sustain. The labor market is tightening rapidly with shortages
emerging in several important industrial sectors. This has started to exert
pressure on wages. There is already a growing need to import contract labor from



-3-
neighboring  countries  to  relieve  this  supply  bottleneck.    Meanwhile,
productivity-enhancing investments in upgrading the skills of Malaysian workers
will need to be accelerated. Malaysia will also need to invest in labor market
institutions that promote wage flexibility and contribute to productivity growth
(as discussed in the Bank's 1992 Malaysia Country Economic Memorandum (No. 10758-
MA).
The Gurrent Situation and Outlook
9.        Several indicators now suggest that economic growth this year will be
a more moderate 7 percent compared to the average of 8.4 percent over the last
six years. To some extent, this is associated with the changing patterns of
trade and investment (see Section B.), but there are other signs of economic
slowdown as well, such as falling orders in the manufacturing sector, the loss
of 5 percent of value on the KLSE, and a softening of the property market due to
excess capacity and recent foreign investment regulations to restrict
Singaporeans' entry in the real estate sector.   This moderation of economic
growth, however, is regarded by the authorities as a timely correction of the
over-heating of recent years, which had started to push the rate of inflation
above the psychological barrier of 5 percent. It is expected that the slowdown
will eventually impact on domestic consumer demand, which has increased sharply
in the last couple of years, resulting in lower savings and a growing current
account deficit due to a sharp rise in imports.
10.       A number of mega-projects currently on the anvil are likely to put
renewed pressure on the budget. These include a new international airport at
Sepang and a new stadium for the forthcoming Asian games. Additionally, there
is considerable need for investment in infrastructure, such as a mass transit
system for Kuala Lumpur and hazardous, household and municipal waste treatment.
The Government's response is to encourage private sector participation in most
of these new projects. In principle, this is a welcome development provided the
procedures are transparent. Adequate care must be taken so that large private
monopolies in mass urban transport, sewerage and hazardous waste treatmc.nt are
appropriately regulated to ensure that coverage is equitable, prices charged are
fair, and service provided is of acceptable standard. Some of these issues are
being addressed in the Bank's forthcoming 1993 economic report, "Industrial and
Urban Pollution in Malaysia".
B. Malavsia and the External Environment
11.       With the share of exports to GNP at 84 percent and external demand an
important engine of growth and income generation, Malaysia is a small, very open
economy that is sensitive to developments in the external environment. In the
past, most recently in 1985-86, external terms of trade shocks have led to
recession and prolonged unemployment. To avoid such external shocks, Malaysia
has successfully diversified its exports. In 1975, primary goods constituted 64
percent of total exports; the share has now gone down to 40 percent with
manufactured goods accounting for the majority.   While this has reduced
vulnerability to terms of trade shocks associated with collapse in commodity
prices, the exposure to the risk of recessions among trading partners has
increased.



-4-
12.       Malaysia trades with 140 countries, of which Japan, ASEAN, United
States and the European Community are the most important trading partners,
accounting for almost three-quarters of Malaysia's total exports in 1991. The
shares of the US and Japan have remained fairly stable at around one sixth of
total exports. The EC share has fallen substantially from 23.2 percent in 1975
to 14.9 percent in 1990. Malaysia's trade with ASEAN countries expanded by 37.7
percent in 1991 and represents 24.1 percent of Malaysia's total trade. This
trade is quite diversified in both primary as well as manufactured goods. Within
ASEAN, Malaysia's most important trading partner is Singapore. Outside ASEAN,
Malaysia's Asian trade is dominated by Japan. Within the semi-conductors sub-
sector, which is one of the largest manufacturing exports of Malaysia, the most
important destination is the US, accounting for 35.1 percent of total semi-
conductor exports in 1991.
13.       Malaysia's open capital account also binds it to the global economy.
The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) has come into its own following the
economic recovery since 1987 and its separation from the Singapore Stock Exchange
in 1989,  the market capitalization of which  it now exceeds.    Technical
improvements and broader listing of companies following privatization have
further stimulated the stock market; in 1990, 13 billion shares (a six-fold
increase in five years) were traded on the KLSE worth US$11.4 billion. This
underlies Malaysia's attraction to large foreign portfolio investors.
14.       Much more important for the economy are the large inflows of foreign
direct investment- -mainly from Asia--, which have helped expand the manufacturing
base and have facilitated access to markets abroad.   Measured in terms of
approvals granted by the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (MIDA),
foreign direct investment (FDI) to Malaysia has increased dramatically in the
last five years. In 1991 total FDI in approved projects reached M$16 billion
compared to M$2.1 billion in 1987, with Taiwan (China), Japan, Korea, United
States and Indonesia being the largest sources. The bulk of the investment is
in basic metals products, petroleum industries, chemicals and chemical products,
electrical and electronic products and non-metallic products.
15.       Malaysia's success in attracting FDI is partly due to its geographical
location and its cultural ties with Singapore and Taiwan in particular. But
economic and political stability are equally important. Consistently good growth
performance, low inflation, a stable exchange rate, the development of an
efficient and competitive private sector, and a favorable regulatory framework
have reduced the risk of doing business in Malaysia. Business costs are also
lowered by the availability of an educated and disciplined labor force and good
infrastructure. The last two features are currently the focus of Government
policy, since the Government of Malaysia is keenly aware of the intensive
competition for investible funds and the ease with which external circumstances
can slow those flows.
16.       Several indicators now suggest that the external environment could
become tighter in the medium term. Japan, by far the largest trading partner and
source of foreign investment, is in recession and that is beginning to have an
impact. This, combined with increased regional competition particularly from
Indonesia, Thailand, China and now Vietnam, has resulted in a softening of FDI
flows in 1992.



-5-
17.       In this changing international environment,  it is important that
Malaysia maintains a diversified trade pattern.   In recent years, trade and
investment links with East Asia have strengthened at the expense of those with
Europe and North America. This enabled Malaysia to avoid the fallottt from the
European and American recessions. The current Japanese recession, however, is
a strong reminder that, in a global economic setting, small open economies such
as Malaysia, do best by maintaining diversified market access. This realization
is likely to result in attempts to improve trade relations with the EC and
especially North America. There is some concern that the North America Free
Trade Area (NAFTA) might redirect foreign direct investment from the East Asia
region to Mexico (both from the US investors as well as from other parts of the
world) as investors seek to locate themselves in Mexico as an entry point into
the larger North American market. Partly as a response to this concern, Malaysia
has been a forceful protagonist for the creation of a new East Asian Economic
Caucus and is actively participating in the initial rounds of tariff reductions
under the framework of the new ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA).
C. Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
Malaysia's Development Objectives and Policies
18.       As a result of dynamic economic performance in recent years, Malaysia
is now in a strong position to pursue its goal of beuoming an industrialized
economy early in the 21st century. To consolidate and build upon the growth
momentum of the last five years, Malaysia's Prime Minister has set out a target
of achieving industrial country status in three decades. "Vision 20-20", as this
target has come to be called, requires sustaining annual growth rates of 7
percent over the next 30 years. This would double GNP every ten years, and by
2020 income per capita would increase nearly four times the 1991 level of
US$2,500. This is not as ambitious a target as it might seem as it translates
into Malaysia achieving, in 30 years' time, the present real income level of
Singapore. It does, however, pose challenges on several fronts, which must be
met.
19.       Malaysia's long-term planning establishes a clear set of priorities
for addressing these challenges. The Government's first strategic priority has
been to establish political consensus around a new set of policies for equity and
social restructuring, which will essentially rely on vigorous, market-based
growth as the best cure for remaining poverty and ethnic inequalities but will
be accompanied by special programs designed to meet the specific needs of the
hard-core poor. The second priority concerns the strategic shift froa public to
private sector in the economy. This involves pursuing the unfinished economic
liberalization agenda, implementing the privatization program and capital market
reforms and deriving maximum advantage from direct foreign investment, including
strengthening its linkages with domestic industry. This approach also involves
giving a larger role to the private sector in securing greater operational
efficiency as well as in financing the necessary capacity expansion ot physical
infrastructure,  in order to meet the needs of a fast-moving eccnomy.   An
important aspect to be given attention will be the strengthening of the
regulatory framework to govern the privatized entities, especially those having
a monopolistic position in the market. The third priority area concerns natural



-6-
resource management, where Malaysia now recognizes that its long-term economic
interests indicate the need for stronger management of mineral, land and water
based resources, which in some cases (such as timber) have been exploited at an
unsustainable  rate.   Other  important long term  issues  addressed  in the
perspective plan concern the organization and financing of social services,
including health and technical and higher education, and reforming the fiscal
system to ensure that it can handle expenditure growth in these and other areas.
20.       Thus, the economy's growing strength and prosperity are beginning to
define broad policy priorities for the future. The most important concern is
maintaining international competitiveness since, given the small domestic market,
most of the growth will have to be generated through exports. So productivity
improvement will have to become a central focus, with more internationally
competitive Malaysian firms making market niches abroad.   This is clearly
acknowledged in the Government's Second Outline Perspective Plan (OPP2) - issued
in July 1991, along with the Sixth Five-Year Plan covering, 1991-95, which set
the broad development strategy for the next ten years. It is noteworthy that
both the OPP2 and the Sixth Plan were broadly in agreement with the central theme
of the 1991 CEM, "Growth. Poverty Alleviation and ImNroved Income Distribution
in Malaysia":  given past achievements, it is time to move away from direct
Government interventions to a less regulated and more competitive economy.
21.       Investment in human resources to upgrade labor skills to continue to
attract foreign investment and move the production base to high-tech, greater
value added products is the second thrust of the new development strategy
presented in the OPP2. Recognizing this, the Sixth Plan has allocated M$2.6
billion to higher education and M$580 million to industrial training which,
compared to the Fifth Plan, is an increase of 50 percent and 93 percent,
respectively. The Government has made use of the sector work done by the Bank
in the education and social sectors to provide the policy framework for the
increased expenditures.
22.       The importance of maintaining adequate infrastructure is recognized
in the Plan documents as crucial for sustaining rapid growth and preserving
Malaysia's attractiveness to foreign investors. In this context, the Sixth Plan
has  allocated  M$ 10.8  billion  to  the  development  of  transport  and
telecommunications, which is 44 percent of the total consolidated public sector
development expenditure for the plan period. The Government expects much of this
investment to be provided through the private sector. However, in implementing
the strategy it will be important to ensure that the appropriate regulatory
framework for privatized monopolies in the power, transport, water, and waste
treatment industries is developed and that adequate monitoring and enforcement
capacities are put in place, if the expected benefits are to be fully realized.
23.       Preserving the environment has been a concern for Malaysia for many
years, but has recently begun to figure more prominently in public debate and in
the Government's policy agenda.   The latter now comprises efforts to better
integrate environmental and economic planning within Federal and State Government
structures; to strengthen implementation of the EIA process, the principal
mechanism for preventing major damage to the environment; and to make appropriate
remediation/treatment investments where needed to deal with past accumulations
of environmental damage or hazardous material. Regarding industrial and other
forms of pollution, which are now receiving increasing attention, an important



-7-
source of Malaysia's competitive advantage and attraction for foreign investors
has been its clean urban environment. Malaysians themselves are also aware of
the difference the relatively low levels of pollution (compared to Bangkok,
Manila and Jakarta) have made to their quality of life. The Malaysian Government
is therefore concerned that environmental quality be maintained in the face of
rapid industrial growth, and to that end has requested the Bank to carry out an
economic study of the costs of urban and industrial pollution and of alternative
means of preventing it.
24.       The Sixth Malaysia Plan gives new emphasis to the conservation and
sustainable development of natural resources. It specifies that forest resources
will be carefully exploited to ensure sustainable growth and safeguard the
heritage of future generations. Since uncontrolled exploitation accelerates the
depletion rate and undermines the development of vital sectors, the Government
is formulating a National Conservation Scrategy to provide the framework for
comprehensive resource planning and management, and has recently taken strong
measures to discourage illegal logging and under-declaration of timber royalties.
Programs are being developed for the progressive reforestation of the 6.1 million
hectares of logged-over forest, which represent 17.5 percent of the national land
area, and additional forested areas are to be designated as forest reserves,
animal sanctuaries and national parks. Malaysia's marine ecosystem will be
further protected in order to preserve biodiversity, promote tourism arnd
encourage marine research.
25.       The Government's new priorities also require a fresh look at the
fiscal system. Since the difficulties of the early 1980s, the fiscal deficit has
been maintained at a manageable level. In 1991, the deficit was down to 2.7
percent of GNP, compared to 4.9 percent in 1987.   However this trend could
reverse itself as the economy moves into a new phase of development, requiring
major infrastructure investment and - unless financing methods are changed -
large increases in public health and education expenditures. Meanwhile, revenues
risk not keeping pace since they are still generated mainly through resource
taxation. To improve buoyancy, fiscal tools need to be evolved that are in
keeping with the emerging production, consumption and trade patterns. These
issues were studied in the Bank's 1992 economic report entitled "Malasia: Fiscal
Reform for Stable Growth" (No. 10120-MA).
26.       The current structure of fiscal incentives to foreign investors not
only results in a loss of tax revenue but, because the incentives are selective,
can also distort investment decisions. Recognizing this, the Government has
taken several steps to lower incentives and make them more uniform.   These
include reduction in the investment allowance from 100 to 60 percent, 10 percent
tax on pioneer status firms and restricted eligibility for exports abatement.
27.        Recent financial sector reforms, such as the freeing up of the base
lending rate and institutional changes to deepen financial intermediation will
help strengthen commercial banks' role in Malaysia's industrial transition.
Malaysia's emerging capital markets could also become a much more important
source of industrial finance, but this will require: (a) strengthening the stock
exchange by establishing a securities commission to provide a regulatory
framework; (b) widening the choice of financial instruments by creating corporate
bond and private debt securities markets; (c) promoting the secondary market for
Government securities; and (d) developing a financial futures market.



-8-
28.       The manufacturing sector in Malaysia is fast coming of age and will
be the leading sector in delivering future growth.   The following features
characterize  Malaysia's  industrial  transition:  manufacturing  is  becoming
increasingly capital intensive and reliant on engineering and other more
sophisticated labor skills; and at the same time both domestic and international
market forces call for investment in less-polluting industrial processes. These
challenges call for continued productivity growth and maintaining an edge in
international competitiveness. Facilitating adjustments in the labor market,
rationalization of fiscal and financial policies, strengthening the science and
technology base and managing industrial/urban pollution problems will be the key
elements to be tackled in industrial restructuring.
29.       Expansion and deepening of the science and technology base is becoming
top priority in Malaysia. To that end, an excellent master plan, fIn&ltrial
Technology Development: A National Plan of Action", has been prepared. This
should be implemented, and be fully integrated into the Government's strategy for
strengthening the education base.
Main Obiectives and IBRD Program of Assistance
30.       The Bank's strategy in Malaysia starts from the fact that the country
has been exceptionally successful and that our lending activities have to be
selective, with overall volume limited by the reality that the IBRD is a lender
of last resort. Bank involvement also responds to the Government's demand for
analytic and policy work in the context of the ESW program, a demand that often
exceeds the institution's ability to respond due to resource constraints. In
this context, future lending to Malaysia is expected to be increasingly
concentrated in high priority sectors consistent with both the Bank's analysis
of the country's long-term development constraints and the GON's strong
preferences. This strategy has led to the identification of (i) human resource
develoDment; (ii) targeted health delivery; and (iii) urban infrastructure/en-
vironment as the most likely candidates for Bank lending. Involvement in these
sensitive and critical issues is based on a established track record of trust and
professionalism in both lending and analytic areas.
(i) Role of Bank lending
31.       In view of the favorable balance of payments situation, Bank lending
to Malaysia is not critical in meeting the external resource needs of the
country. An excellent creditworthiness rating ensures ready access for Malaysia
to a broad spectrum of international capital sources. Bank lending, is, however,
still a significant component of Federal Government financing, the need for which
is expected to continue as the recent trend towards lower deficits is offset by
reduced use of commercial bank debt and asset draw-downs. Hence, the level of
Bank lending is expected to continue within the range of US$100-200 million per
year during the next several years.
(ii) Recent lending
32.       Over the past nine years (FY85-93) Bank lending to Malaysia has
averaged $160 million per year, with a downward trend in commitments as the
economy has gained strength. All Bank lending during this period has been for
investment purposes, with increasing use made of sectoral and time-slice



v9-
investment loans in support of agreed programs. There has been a major shift in
the composition of our lending during this period. Human resources development
has now overtaken agriculture/rural development as the leading sector of Bank
involvement, both in terms of numbers of projects and volume of financing
committed (see Table 1).
Table It Disbut  o Bank Loning by Secr, FY9
(USS million, and prcentage)
FY85487          FY8S-90        FY91-93
Sector                    Amoutt   Percent    Aut   Perent    Amount  Paent
AgdculbwelPstryl
RuMa' Levelopmeat         151.7    233       208.S   45.9    94.0    27.5
(4)                (3)            (1)
Wu*Y/IFDI                  117.1    18.0       -      -        -       -
(3)
PowerlEney                 100.0    ISA4      S6.0   123           -
(1)                (1)
Tranpon                    18.9      2.9      83.2   183       -
(1)                (1)
UtbantWater Supply         62.0      9.S       -      -
(1)
EducationfTinlvg           200.6    30.8      107.0   23.5    248.0    72.S
(2)                 )              (2)
Total amount        650.3    100.0     4S4.7  100.0    342.0   100.0
Number of project  (12)                 (7)            (3)
a.    Not includi US$200 milion loan to Temp Nsional ediad for Power System Developmen approved i February 1992,
widdrwn in Jamuary 1993 at the Govemmens request.
33.      Agriculture and rural development has constituted the most important
sector of past Bank lending to Malaysia, and has yielded impressive results in
terms of productivity improvement, employment creation and poverty alleviation
in rural areas.   Projects under implementation provide institutional and
financial support for these objectives under programs of smallholder replanting,
crop diversification and land consolidation managed by various Federal Government
agencies under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. Other
recent projects have supported research and development of improved reforestation
methods in Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah. The Bank recently produced a sector
study on Malaysia's forest resources (Malaysia: Forestry Subsector Studv; report
No. 9775-MA) which examines in some depth various alternatives at the technical
and economic policy levels for ensuring that Malaysia's essentially non-renewable
tropical timber resources are husbanded for the future in line with the country's
own policies for sustainable development of the nation's forest reserves.
Implementation of the recommendations of this study, which is still under



10 -
discussion with the Government, could be supported financially through Bank
lending once there was agreement on a suitable program of actions and policies.
34.       The main conclusion from this analysis for the sustainability of
Malaysia's long-run economic growth points to the importance of carefully
managing the rate of hardwood timber extraction, in line with Malaysia's own
objectives for sustainable use of its natural resources and to cushion the
eventual impact on the industry of a sharper, involuntary adjustment later on.
This would appear to be a case where environmental and economic prescriptions
coincide, so long as a reasonabl- long view is taken and the related short-term
adjustment problems can be managed.   A supporting conclusion of the Bank's
analysis is that, because of lower real world prices and hence narrower margins
for rent and profits in rubber and palm oil production, continued land clearing
for agriculture is likely to become less and less economically advantageous,
especially if the real resource costs (including rents on timber) and environmen-
tal costs of clear-felling forest land are fully evaluated.  Reflecting the
declining long-run profitability and increasing social cost of converting forest
land to agricultural uses, the Government's recent plans have included a
considerable slow-down in its targets for land clearing for agriculture and rural
development programs.
35.       Between 1969 and 1992, the Bank has financed 11 projects in educa-
tion/training totalling US$656 million. Of these, three projects were recently
completed and one - the University Development Project - is still under
supervision. A loan for a Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
(US$141 million, was recently approved by the Board. Continuity and profession-
alism in the sector policy dialogue have contributed to a sustained demand for
Bank assistance in the sector. The recent projects build on previous achieve-
ments but also aim to assist the sector in successfully making the transition
from a phase of rapid and costly expansion to one in which efficiency and cost-
sharing, flexibility and innovation, will all be critical. They include such
features as unit cost reductions, educational research and MIS, distance
education and private sector involvement. The proposed loan in support of the
Polytechnic Development Project is the result of closc collaboration between the
Bank and Malaysia in designing a robust and coherent program for upgrading
higher-level technical and management skills.
(iii) Recent Economic & Sector Work
36.       The key to the Bank's involvement in Malaysia, indeed to its lending
program, has been its economic and sector work (ESW).   The ESW program has
contributed directly to the Government's new strategic priorities and to its
recent interest in borrowing in the education, training and health sectors. Such
work has also been done in other sectors such as agroindustry and agricultural
diversification, industrial restructuring, housing and local government, and
natural gas development but these studies were not primarily geared to new
lending.    In 1990 the Bank provided informal inputs and advice on the
Government's privatization master plan study, prepared to give guidelines for the
orderly and effective implementation of the Government's privatization strategy.
The Government is implementing this plan, and has followed it up with a further
study to help in establishing an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure that
the public interest is protected in terms of price and quality as well as
efficiency and availability of service. The last two CEMs have addressed the



- 11 -
issues of the distortionary impact of Government programs aimed at improving
equity and our sector reports on transport, housing and the rice industry all
addressed issues of efficiency, including administrative processes, design
standards and entry/exit restrictions. Our experience has been that the core and
sector agencies are indeed receptive to Bank advice, even if it takes time for
actions to follow, while attempts to introduce it in the form of lending
conditionality are less effective. The 1992 economic report on fiscal reform
focuses on several ingredients of the Government's medium term strategy. It
evaluates the investment program of the Sixth Plan in the light of the imDortant
role fiscal policy has in Malaysia. It suggests measures to streamline the tax
structure and examines the potential for additional tax revenues. It also sets
out expenditure priorities in health and education, including opportunities for
closer targeting of these towards remaining poverty groups, and thus provides a
macroeconomic policy framework for lending in these sectors.
(iv) Future Lending
37.       As noted earlier,  future lending will focus on human resources,
targeted health delivery, and possibly urban infrastructure/environment. The
scale of lending in light of Malaysia's economic circumstances will be in the
neighborhood of 2-3 projects per year, or at an annual level of $100-200 million.
Work will generally be preceded by ESW products to reach consensus with
Government on policy directions and investment priorities. The following summary
assessments reflect those understandings reached in the areas of education and
training, and health. We expect to reach a similar set of understandings in the
area of urban/infrastructure and environment in the course of FY94. In FY94 we
expect to make new loans for a first Health Services Development Proiect
(described later) and for a Second RISDA Agricultural Develogment Project. The
latter project, which may be one of the last projects in this sector to be
financed by the Bank, would support this agency's continued organizational
restructuring and field program, geared to improving technology and incomes among
Malaysia's 100,000 smallholder rubber growers (a significant poverty group in
parts of the Peninsula), and continue a program for training women smallholders.
38.       Education & Training.  Educational development in Malaysia has always
figured prominently in the Government's development plans and has consistently
received substantial and steadily increasing budgetary allocations. Universal
primary education has been reached, and the lower secondary enrollment ratio is
a high 83 percent; on the other hand, enrollment ratios are still low in upper
secondary education (49 percent), and abnormally so in higher education (6
percent, or 8.6 percent when students abroad are included, to be compared to 11.8
percent in Singapore and 31.6 percent in Korea). Gender equity has been achieved
except in higher education, and educational opportunities have been basically
equalized across races. A variety of interesting pedagogic innovations have also
been introduced.
39.       The country's goal of becoming an industrialized economy by 2020 poses
new challenges for the sector, as rapid economic growth is to be achieved through
productivity increases and private sector development. The education/training
system still faces quality issues--expanding the scientific and technological
base, upgrading skills, closing the urban-rural achievement gap; universal
secondary education has yet to be attained, and the Sixth Plan (1991-95) proposes



- 12 -
sharp increases in investment in vocational training and higher education, which
are expensive sub-sectors. The question is how best to accommodate these many
competing claims within projected resources. The problem is complicated by the
fact that, due to high unit costs and a low level of private financing, the
sector's share in total Government recurrent expenditures has already reached a
high level--19.6 percent, comparable to Singapore--and cannot be pushed much
further. Efficiency and the role of the private sector have become central to
our macro and sectoral dialogues. We have recently made proposals to reactivate
our dialogue on higher education covering issues of university governance,
partnership with the private sector, and the financing of future expansion.
Government has requested more time to think about the proposal.
40.       Health DeveloDment.  There is an interesting parallelism between the
health and education sectors.   As in education, the development of health
services in Malaysia (based on low-cost primary health care, immunization, safe
water and sanitation) has been very successful. The health system is mostly
Government-financed and is very cost-effective. Today, with the rapid growth of
the economy,  the health care system is at a threshold.   On the one hand,
expectations for more sophisticated health services are high; and higher rewards
in private medical services are straining the supply of health care personnel,
a situation which has triggered a drain of talent towards the private sector.
On the other hand, quality and coverage in the poorest and more isolated parts
of the country still need to be improved--a market failure which Government is
best placed to correct.
41.       So far the Bank has not lent to Malaysia for health development per
se (although there were two population projects supported by the Bank in the
1970s) and the ADB has been the major donor in the sector. In 1989 the Bank
entered into discussions with the Government on health sector policies, on which
analytical work was provided both as part of the Bank's ESW and as an informal
contribution to preparation of the Sixth Plan.   This dialogue led to the
preparation of a first Health Services Development Project, with the help of a
Japan Grant Fund administered by the Bank. The project was appraised in April
1992 and a loan is expected to be negotiated in the near future. The project
will focus on selected sectoral priorities such as: improving access to health
care in under- serviced areas; strengthening environmental and occupational health
care; introduction of selected advanced medical technology; and related
institutional development. The project will also provide a vehicle for pursuing
the informal policy dialogue in key areas of the health sector, including review
of the evolving linkages between public and private medical care. The Bank's
role will thus complement that of the ADB as the main external lender for the
health sector, which has concentrated on primary health care development, new
hospital construction and studies of alternative health financing arrangements.
42.       Urban Infrastructure/Environment.   New water supply, sewerage and
solid waste disposal investments potentially suitable for Bank financing figure
in the Sixth Plan and have been discussed with Government. The overall mix of
public and private sector roles in financing and management of these schemes is
still being worked out. Proposals for a Second Johor Water SupRply Project are
currently being considered. The potential broader role for the Bank in assisting
in putting together the appropriate policy and financing framework for these
investments will be discussed following completion of the ongoing study of urban
environment policy issues.



- 13 -
(iv) Portfolio Management Performance
43.       The Bank's project portfolio in Malaysia in FY92 consisted of 18
projects, mostly in the agriculture and education sectors, for a total commitment
of $1.40 billion. Of the undisbursed balance of $468.8 million, $174.5 million
(37.2 percent) was disbursed during the year. Seven projects were completed
during FY92 while two new loans were approved during the FY - for the Thibr
FELCRA Ag. Development and Power System Development projects, for a total
commitment of $294 million.  However the latter loan has not been signed and was
withdrawn in January 1993 because the Government has decided to accept BOT
financing for the project under its plan for privatizing the national power
utility, Tenaga Nasional (TEN). The trend toward a diminishing size of portfolio
is expected to continue in FY93, but at a slower rate, with four projects due to
be completed and two new projects expected to be approved.
44.       Implementation  of  Bank-financed  projects  in Malaysia  has  been
generally very good, and both performance and disbursement indicators for the
portfolio as a whole are above-average and improving. The rate of disbursement
was affected by administrative delays and by budgetary restraints imposed by the
Treasury during the adjustment period under the Fifth Plan (1986-90) but has
since recovered to a satisfactory level. Recent projects have had substantial
positive impacts on institution-building, poverty alleviation, women's role in
development, environment and natural resource conservation, and preparing public
enterprises  for privatization.   Apart from slow disbursements,  the main
implementation problems encountered have been: project staffing and manpower
shortages, cumbersome Federal/State Government relationships (affecting land
acquisition, for example), lengthy procurement procedures (now improved with
increasing use of standard bidding documents), and the limited capacity of JKR
(Public Works Department) to supervise local contractors on small, dispersed
construction jobs. There have also been occasional delays in implementation of
project training and TA components and in obtaining access to data needed for
project-related studies. To address such issues we have held periodic country
implementation reviews with the central and implementing agencies, which have
been quite successful in having such issues addressed and resolved. We have
followed up these reviews during supervision missions and with periodic seminars
on disbursement and procurement for implementing agencies and contractors; the
last such seminar took place in early 1992.
(v) IFC and MIGA Activities
45.       The IFC has made 13 investments in Malaysia with gross commitments
totalling US$80.3 million. Commitments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1992,
amounted to approximately US$26.5 million. IFC plans to expand its investments
in Malaysia in coming years, particularly by helping to bring small, growth-
oriented companies to the stage of public quotation, but also by participating
selectively in larger-scale ventures and by providing guarantee lines to local
banking institutions. IFC has also played a key role in the launching of the
First and Second Malaysia Growth Funds. The Corporation is currently discussing
possible provision of advisory services in the pulp/paper and cement industries.
46.       During the past two years, FIAS has assisted the Ministry of Trade and
Industry and the investment authority (MIDA) in reviewing the appropriateness of
the investment incentive system and the procedures to administer and monitor
compliance with such incentives. In the follow-up to this work, the Government



- 14 -
has requested FIAS to assist MIDA in the implementation of earlier recommenda-
tions aimed at simplifying the complexity and the number of investment
conditions, and in establishing an investor tracking system to support efficient
monitoring of investment implementation. The work on this project will start in
March of this year.
47.       Malaysia has been a member of MIGA since December 6, 1991.  MIGA has
not issued any contracts of guarantee in Malaysia and does not currently have any
application for coverage pending. MIGA would be willing to support eligible
foreign investment, including privatization, in the future.
(vi) Collaboration with Other Multilaterals
48.       We coordinate our assistance activities in Malaysia on a regular basis
with the Asian Development Bank, which has been assisting mainly in the rural
development, power, water and health sectors, and with the UNDP Regional
Representative, particularly on technical assistance and environment-related
programs. The volume of ADB lending in recent years has been roughly comparable
to that of the Bank. In the past we have engaged in parallel cofinancing of
power and infrastructure projects with the ADB as well as with bilateral agencies
such as the Japan OECF; however, with greater reliance on private sector (BOT)
financing for these sectors there is likely to be less need for such cofinancing
in the future. On economic reporting and policy analysis we maintain close
coordination with staff of the IMF.
D. Summary Assessment
Malaysia's economic performance over the last five years has been very
strong, and prospects for sustaining this performance in the coming
years appear to be good, provided that macro management remains sound
and there is no worsening in the external environment, which has
recently led to a flattening in the rate of new foreign investment;
*    in the longer term Malaysia's goals for becoming an industrialized
economy early in the 21st century appear achievable, but will require
sustained efforts to upgrade educational standards and create a
stronger science and technology base, to improve capacity and
efficiency in the country's physical infrastructure, to satisfy the
public's demand for preserving a clean and safe environment, and to
strive for greater depth and transparency in the financial system;
*    Malaysia's strategy for relying primarily on the private sector,
driven largely at present by foreign investment, to create the
economic growth needed to achieve its long term objectives is soundly
based: the country's experience with direct Government investment in
manufacturing and other industries in the early-80s was generally
disappointing and the lesson has been learned.   At the same time
experience from various countries suggests that care must be taken in
implementing the privatization strategy to ensure that the creation
of large new private monopolies does not prejudice the achievement of
fiscal, efficiency and distributional objectives;



15 -
given Malaysia's privatization strategy and good creditworthiness in
international markets, Bank financing of major new infrastructure and
power investments is unlikely to be crucial in the coming years.
There is, however, an important role for the Bank in helping Govern-
ment to implement its strategy for upgrading the nation's financing
and delivery systems for health and education services, whose
continued adaptation to new circumstances is likely to be crucial in
supporting the transition to an industrial economy, and in working
with Government in improving urban infrastructure/environment;
*    the Bank is well-placed to provide assistance in these areas because
of its long and fruitful involvement in the education/training sector
and its major investment in analytical work in the new areas of health
and urban environment.   So long as Malaysia wishes to maintain an
active borrowing program, expected to be in the range of US$100-200
million annually, the Bank will continue to provide analytical support
for selected economic policy studies on topics agreed to be matters
of priority for achieving the country's development objectives;
*    the most relevant indicators for measuring progress in the implementa-
tion of the proposed assistance strategy will be, firstly, the
continued receptiveness of the Malaysian Government to the Bank's
economic and sectoral policy dialogue; and, secondly, the progress
made in achieving agreed efficiency and quality indicators embodied
in specific lending operations for education/training and other
sectors.
II. The Proiect
49.       Project Background.  Over the past decade, Malaysia has experienced
one of the most dynamic growth rates in Asia.   Fueled by private sector
expansion, jobs are being restructured to accommodate new technologies and
growing demands for highly skilled workers and technicians. In the manufacturing
sector the work force has grown from 855,000 in 1985 to over 1,180,000 in 1992.
Service industries are also demanding more trained personnel. At present, there
is a need for about 7000 additional highly skilled workers to fill unmet needs.
Assuming a sector growth rate of 11.5% over the next five-year plan period and
labor elasticity of about 50%, there will be a requirement to expand national
training capacity by at least 200X over the next decade.
50.       In Malaysia, vocational and technical education (VTE) is nationally
administered. Policy direction is provided by the Economic Planning Unit (EPU)
and the National Vocational Training Council (NVTC). The Ministry of Education
(MOE) and the Ministry of Human Resources (MOHR) provide most of the pre-service
training for low- to medium-level skilled workers.
51.       For higher-level skill and technician training, the MOE operates seven
polytechnics with an enrollment of about 11,000 and an annual output of about
4000 (1992). Other public and proprietary programs have a combined output of
about 5000 graduates per year. At this time, employers' demands for higher-level
skilled workers and technicians far exceed the training capacity of the country.
It is estimated that there is a need to triple the nation's output capacity by
year 2000. Recent studies have also confirmed that the subsector suffers from:



- 16 -
(a) too centralized decision-making; (b) lack of relevance in technical education
programs; (c) weak linkages with employers; (d) inadequate internal efficiency;
and (e) inadequately trained teaching staff. In response to these concerns, in
1990, a Cabinet-level Committee on Skill Training (CCST) recommended policy
reforms to strengthen the sector.  These reforms were incorporated into the
current Sixth Five-Year Plan (1991-1995). The Government has moved to implement
many of the reforms and has incorporated the relevant recommendations into the
proposed project.
52.       Project Objectives.  The broad aim of the project is to increase the
quantity and quality of higher level technical manpower for industry through the
expansion of the nation's training capacity and the improvement of the quality
of pre-service training for higher level skilled workers and technicians. More
specifically the project would: (a) promote a more decentralized, demand-driven
polytechnic system; (b) expand the capacity of the polytechnic system;
(c) increase the efficiency of the polytechnic system through the provision of
a wider range of training opportunities, increased quality of service delivery,
better capacity utilization and the lowering of unit costs;  (d) upgrade the
quality and availability of polytechnic staff through recruitment and staff
development; (e) upgrade the implementation capacity of the Development and
Supplies Division (DSD) and Technical and Vocational Education Division (TAVED)
of the Ministry of Education; (f) upgrade the capacity of the Ministry of Human
Resources to implement the Human Resources Development Fund; and (g) upgrade the
planning and research capacity of the National Vocational Training Council.
53.       Project Descriition.  The project consists of: (a) the establishment
of three new polytechnics with a combined enrollment of about 13,000 students and
an estimated output of about 3000 graduates each year; (b) the implementation of
major reforms to strengthen subsector organizations and institutions; (c) the
training of about 1000 new teachers and 36 administrators; (d) the development
of curricula for 15 new instructional programs; (e) the implementation of three
studies relating to subsector efficiency and development; (f) technical
assistance to support the establishment of the National Human Resources
Development Fund; and (g) technical assistance to upgrade the research and
planning capacity of the National Vocational Training Council.
54.       The project would cost US$185.0 million equivalent, including taxes
and duties estimated at US$1.8 million equivalent.   The Bank would finance
US$107.0 million (100% of the foreign exchange and 58% of the total).   A
breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and method of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events
and the status of Bank Group operations in Malaysia are given in Schedules C and
D, respectively.   A map (No. 23413) is also attached.   The Staff Appraisal
Report, No. 10253-MA dated February 19, 1993 is being distributed separately.
55.       Proiect Implementation.  The Ministry of Education (MOE) would have
the  overall  responsibility  for  project  implementation.    The  Ministry's
Development and Supply Division (DSD) would serve as the project implementation
unit (PIU). The Technical and Vocational Education Division (TAVED) of MOE would
provide pedagogical guidance to the project and administer the policy reform and
institutional strengthening, studies, and curriculum development components. The
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) would administer the staff development
component of the project under an agreement with MOE. The MOHR would administer



- 17 -
the technical assistance components for the Human Resources Development Fund and
the National Vocational Training Council. The project would be implemented over
a period of six years. The PIU and TAVED both have considerable successful
experience in project implementation having jointly implemented the two previous
industrial training projects (Loans 2145-MA and 2601-MA) as well as a number of
other Bank (and donor) assisted projects in the education sector.
56.       Proiect Sustainability.  Strong Government commitment to improvements
in the Polytechnic system and the high priority given by the Government to the
preparation of the proposed project indicate that it will be sustained in the
future. Previous investments in the subsector have been fully supported and
sustained by the Government and the investments have resulted in high levels of
graduate placement, employer acceptance, and reasonable costs of operation. The
proposed project would further reduce the capital investment costs in the new
polytechnics by about 30X (per full-time student enrollment). The incremental
recurrent cost is estimated to be less than 11 of the recurrent budget for the
entire sector. The increased participation and role of employers in the sector
would also improve the sustainability of the project.
57.       Lessons Learned from Previous Baink Involvement.  Although implementa-
tion was overall satisfactory, the two previous industrial training projects
(Loans 2145-MA, and 2601-MA) have both suffered from problems resulting from
inadequate management by the project implementation unit (PIU). It has been
determined that these problems also resulted from inadequate staffing and
availability of equipment. A portion of loan 2601-MA has been reallocated to
finance activities and equipment to address this concern. The proposed project
also includes an institutional strengthening component and a full-time architect
has been appointed to the PIU. The Government has also had difficulty with land
acquisition and audit compliance. The Government and the Ministry of Education
have reviewed these concerns and have initiated reforms to address these issues.
The acquisition of project sites is a condition of effectiveness.
58.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project is directly in
line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy as described in Section I. In
addressing shortages of skilled manpower, the proposed Project would almost
double the existing capacity to train high-level skilled workers and technicians.
As these types of workers are in short supply within the entire industrial
sector, the increased availability of skilled manpower would be a positive factor
in industrial development.
59.       The proposed project would be the third in a sequenced program of Bank
investments to upgrade higher-level skill training. Bank involvement in the
proposed project would support continued institutional development and policy
dialogue on important reforms within the polytechnic system. The Project would
also support the Government's study of options and implementation strategies that
relate to demand-driven systems for skill training in formal and informal
settings.
60.       Agreed Actions.  The Bank has received assurances from the Government
that it would: (a) carry out an action plan for policy reform and institutional
strengthening; (b) conduct an annual review of project progress; and (c) award
the contract for staff development by October,  1993.   Conditions of loan
effectiveness include: (a) acquisition of project sites; (b) appointment of a
TAVED Deputy Director; (c) completion of the reconstructuring of the Batu Pahat



- 18-
Polytechnic; and (d) execution of the MOE-UTM agreement. Understandings were
reached with the Government that it would appoint about 34 teachers to the Center
for Staff Development by March 1994.
61.       Environmental Asnects.  The Project would, clearly contribute to the
improvement of the environment of the nation. The training of large numbers of
higher-level skilled workers and technicians would provide the critical manpower
required to move many industries from being heavy consumers of raw materials to
being providers of technology-related services and value-added manufacturers.
The project institutions would also offer training that would directly impact on
the implementation of environmental works and projects. There are no environmen-
tal problems associated with this project.
62.       ImRact on Women.   The polytechnic system already has a policy of
gender equity in enrollments. At present, about 27X of all enrollments are
women.   Many of these are in areas of commerce,  drafting,  and chemical
processing. Although some programs are less popular with women, all programs are
open for their enrollment if desired. Efforts would be made in the establishment
of the new institutions to provide more opportunities for the training of women
in traditional and non-traditional employment.   Special facilities for women
would be established in close proximity to all classrooms and laboratories.
Through recruitment and staff development, the Project would also increase the
percentage of women teachers, instructors and administrators employed by the
polytechnics.
63.       ProiLect Benefits.  The main Project benefit would be the increased
annual availability of trained higher-level skilled workers and technicians to
support Malaysia's development goals.   The Project would also improve the
internal efficiency of the existing polytechnics though improvements in national
and local level management, staffing, curricula, reductions in unit costs, better
capacity utilization and quality improvements in service delivery. External
efficiency of the system would be improved through the establishment of better
linkages with employers, decentralization of administrative authority,
introduction of a wider scope of course offerings, improvement of course
relevance, and capacity expansion in areas of employer demand. The benefits of
more relevant and better targeted training should strongly support Sixth Five-
Year Development Plan. New skills offered by the institutes would also support
the introduction of new technologies and enhance the capacity of the Government
to be more responsive to the needs of industry.
64.       Risks.  The primary project risk is the presently inadequate capacity
to train 1000 new teachers and 36 administrators required to staff the project
institutions. If they are not adequately recruited and trained, the potential
of the project would be degraded significantly. The need for this training
capacity would be short-term and may not be sustainable if established
permanently. To address this issue, the project would establish a Center for
Staff Development to recruit and train teachers at the Batu Pahat Polytechnic.
To enhance the limited expertise available, a staff development consultant would
be contracted to provide the majority of teacher educators required.



- 19 -
65.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19, 1993



- 20 -
Schedule A
MALAYSIA
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Cost:                                 LocaIl   Freign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
Capacity Expansion                          58.1       57.8   115.9
Policy Reforms and
Institutional Strengthening                0.0       0.2      0.2
Staff Development                            4.6      27.6    32.2
Curriculum Development                       0.2        1.0     1.2
Related Studies                              0.5        0.2     0.7
Technical Assistance,
Human Resources Development Fund           0.0       0.2      0.2
Technical Assistance, National
Vocational Training Council                O.O        0.1     Ad
Base Costs                                  63.4      87.1   150.5
Physical Contingencies                       6.4        8.2    14.6
Price Contingencies                          8.2      11.7    19.9
Total Project Costs 8/ 7.0                            07     185.0
Financing Plan:                                 Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
IBRD                                         0.0     107.0   107.0
Government                                  78.0        0.0    Z8.0
Total                                       28.0     107.0   1_5.0
I/   Including less than 1% duties and taxes, primarily for building materi-
als.



- 21 -
Schedule
Page 1 of 2
MA1AXAIA
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element                     ICB       LCB     Other  a         Costs
Civil Works                         71.3      9.0      -                80.3
(20.9)    (3.2)                     (24.1)
Equipment                           33.4     12.4      1.8              47.6
(26.5)    (9.9)    (1.4)            (37.8)
Furniture                            -        4.6      0.6               5.2
-       (1.4)    (0.2)             (1.6)
Books and Instructional Mat'ls                -        2.0               2.0
-        -       (1.6)             (1.6)
In-Country Training                  -        -        0.8               0.8
-        -        ,(0.8)           (0.8)
Overseas Training                    -        -       14.7              14.7
(14.7)            (14.7)
Consultants                          -        -       34,4              34.4
-        -      (26.4)            (26.4)
TOTAL                         104.7      26.0     54.3             185.0
(474    (l14.5)   (45.1)            (17.0)
Note:  Columns may not total due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank
/a  Other procurement procedure includes:  (i) international and local
shopping; (ii) negotiated purchases of books and journals; and (iii)
consulting services engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 22 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
MAISAYSTA
POLTECHNIC DEVELOPMEMT PROECT
Disbursements
(US$ million)
Category                      Amount            of expenditures to be financed
Civil Works                 24,100,000       30%
Equipment and vehicles      37,800,000       100X of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 60% of
other local expenditures for
items procured locally
Furniture                    1,600,000       30%
Books and instructional
materials                    1,600,000       100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 60% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Training                    15, 500,000      100%
Consultant's services
(a) under Part
A.4 of the Project    3,400,000        30%
(b) other than sub-
category (a) above  23,000,000        80%
TOTAL        10I7.0 0.000
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999    2000
------------------------(US$ millions)---------------------
Annual                0      21       11      13       24      27       10        1
Cumulative            0      21       32      45       69      96      106     107



- 23 -
Schedule C
MAIAYS&A
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:      Two years
(b)  Prepared by:                            Government with IBRD Assistance
(c)  First Bank mission:                     January 1991
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:            October 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                            February 1993
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          June 1, 1993
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
Credit/Loan No.               Project                  PCR Date         PPAR No.
0599-MA            Education Project                        -             2520
0810-MA            Second Education Project              03/1983            -
0974-MA           Third Education Project                   -             6280
1329-MA           Fourth Education Project               11/1986            -
1657-MA           Fifth Education Project                05/1989          9709
2145-MA            Industrial Training Project           12/1990
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Malaysia
in October 1991. Mission members were Messrs. R. McGough (Task Manager, Industrial
Training Specialist), N. Corwell (Senior Technical Educator), R. Noonan (Economist,
Consultant), H. Kazanas (Vocational and Technical Educator, Consultant), and Ms. I.
Xenakis (Architect, Consultant). Peer reviewers were F. Delannoy, K. Lorch, and W.
Rees. The document was cleared by J. Shivakumar (Chief EA1PH) and C. Madavo
(Director, EAl).



- 24 -
Schedule 0
Pag I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROWP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. Statement of Bonk Loans & IDA Cred1ts/a
(Aa of oecember a1, 1992)
Loan or                                                                          Amount (US53.1 liIon)
Credit       Fiscal                                                            0 *   cance llatIon)
Number        Year        sorrower          Purpo                        B-ani                   Undisbur ed
82 Loans clo sd                                                      1,611.49
2842         1986      Malaysa    Land Settlement Infrastructure        50.00                       6.01
2654         186       Malaysia   Johor Water Supply                    47.00                      13.86
286         1to"       Malaysti    Primary A Secondary Educ. I         111.70                      15.59
2740         1087      Malaysia    W. Johor ADP II                      55.00                      29.52
2772         1087      Malaysia   Energy Efficioncy and Research        69.00                      26.75
2887         19"       Malaysia    University Development               48.20                       S.8,
2942         16        MUlaysta   Sarawak Power Project                 56.00                        .65
2907         1989      Malaysia   Primary A Secondary Educ. II          58.80                       2.26
8039         1989      Malaysia   Sabah Land Settlement                 71.60                       8.68
8319         1990      Malaysi    RISDA (Agriculture)                   71.00                      18.52
8145         1900      Malaysia    Highway Rehab/Improvement            88.20                      71.62
8440         1002      Malaysia   Power Systew DOvelopment lb          200.00                     200.00
3484         1992      Malaysia   FELCRA III (Agrlc.)                   88.48                      78.82
8536         1098      Malaysi    Primary and Secondary Educ. III    141.00                       141.00
TOt"l                                                             2 762 35                     620.86
of which has been repaid                                        1.2098I
Total now hold by the Bank and IDA                                1662--74
Amount sold                     163.40
of which repaId               128.16
Total undisbursed                                                   620.66                     620.66
/a The status of the projecta lsted In Part A Is described In a seprate report on all Bank/IMA financed
project  In execution, which to updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Diroctors on April 30
and October 31.
/b Subsequently withdrawn in January 1993 because the Government has since decided to
to accept BOT financing for the project under its plan for privatizing the national
power utility, Tenaga Nasional (TEN).



- 25 -
Pchedle 2 
S. Statemnt of IFC Inveetmentn
(As December S1, 1992)
Undisbured
Total hold  Including
Fiscal                                 Type of              Ortstnal Comtmnts         by IFC    portic7p nts
Year            Obligor                llustm               Wo n   Equ i ty   Tots I   (at cost)    portion
_              Ilillt~~on-
1964/74      Malaysian Industrial Dev.  Oev. Finance         -       1.9      1.0      -             -
Finance Bhd. (MOP)
1966         Tasek Cment Rhd.          Cemnt                 1.8     0.3      1.6      -             -
1968469      Malyewaa Steel NW.       Steel                 2.5     1.2      3.7      -             -
1970         India-Malaysia            Taxt Ilee             1.8     0.2      1.5      -             -
Textilaw, Bhd.
1986         Pacitlc Hardwoods         Pulp, Paper A Timbr 10.0      1.5    11.6       -             -
Sdn. hd.
1986         SEAVI Projoct             Money A Capital Mkt.  -       1.0      1,0      0.8           -
1987         Malnysia Fund             Money & Capital ikt.  -      26.5    25.5       -             -
1988         Aquablo /a                Aquacuiture           4.0     -        4.0      -             -
1990         21st Century Oleochem.    Chelmcal,             7.9     0.7      .60      5.2           -
1991         SEAVI rr                  Money a Capital Mkt. -        1.0      1.0       1.0          0.5
1m           WIN liY  II               Money a Capital Wkt.  -       -        -        -             -
Tots 1                                         26.8    88.4    60.3       0.5           0.5
Approved but not yet signod
1992DU Qu arntee /b                    Money A Capital  ikt. 10.0    -       10.0     10.0          10.0
1992         OCBC Guarantee 7=         Money A Captial lit. 10.0     -       10.0     10.0          10.0
Total Gross comltenfte                         40.6    88.4    80.8      20.5          20.5
, Subsequently cancelled
Guarantee



IBRD 23413
;            \                             102T                                        104!
<                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE IrNSlJ@RtXSLA
POLYTECHNIC DEVELOPMENT
Padong Besar                                                      PROJECT
>1  r S Bukit Kayu                                               * a  PROJEa POLYEOCH
ng                                                                      A      NHihm\N Pa,C
- S  tT H A I LAND
. ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ <  '   3 X r See  .AXgthu                                               OC
61                  KEDAH    (-
1VX   5$/  <        t Mas 1   r  9R ~~~~~pug       ;:INTEltON BUND^ES
To          pl~~~~aig
Gworgoo~&i
+)   X                \ k           <3rerw~~~~~~~anu
I? PINA    lWa  H/Gg1\
Kurnui toait/(4 PERAK  LANTAN /2         FTRENGGANIJ
Sop et n \)1                                  - -t{    lnu
SOUTH
ShaX   t    ia      >~~~~~~~~ti ~PAHANG   1        tjCHINA
4.~
t   <Inthn   \     |   Jerane  _\  Kal)
fl{AJLANOSELANGC                  AU
0~~~~~~~~
NG, A PruOIra                                 lo        N R 
SlblhAbnn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECME 1991 / 1 
*  h*awbeeoXepved*TheV Pelabuhan KGn>fain            i               X                 B
Ti;tei d mWh fm                         hya pmom hybwang2-; $1               
pstolmN$Gp= }wo*'tt
TMAN  NX       \                       EGRILt   Min;   sag mt JOHOR                     \
<           ~~~~~CHINA                                                   m                 nggiX  
CAtfit <\ ji e4 ~INDONESIA
Di>N  D O N  t /      ($    ~~~~(Sumcaterwa)  ;                                 J
DECEMBER 1991



