Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18067
IMPLEMENTAT[ON COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELEC'TRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3 148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
June 29, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distributiion and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1989    US$ 1.0 = Rs. 17.0
Intervening Year 1994 = US$ 1 0 =Rs. 30.08
Completion Year 1997 =US$ 1.0 =Rs. 38 89
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I kilomneter (km)        =    0.6214 miles (mi)
I ton                    =    1000 kilograms (kg)
-    2200 pounds (lbs)
I kilovolt (kv)                1000 volts (V)
I megawatt (MW)               1000 kilowatts (kW)
I mnegavolt-anmpere (MVA) =    1000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
I kilowatt hour (kWh)         1000 watt-hours (Wh)
I gigawatt hQur (GWh)    =    I million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AEB            Area Electricity Board
AFIS           Accounting and Financial Information System
CIP            Core Investment Program
EAD            Economic Affairs Division
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FMIP           Financial Management Improvement Plan
GOP            Government of Pakistan
ICG            Internal Cash Generation
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
OECF           Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
RE             Rural electrification
REMP           Rural Electrification Master Plan
SAR:           Staff Appraisal Report
WAPDA          Water and Power Development Authority
Vicc President           .Micko Nishimizu
Cotiintn Director        :Sadiq Ahmed    :
Sector Manager           :Alastair McKechniie
.Staff Mnieber            :Rashid Az.iz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTALTION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL EL]ECTRIICATION PROJECT
(Ln.31 48-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
"rable of Contents
Pate No.
PREFACE ........................     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................                                           ,.'.ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity .1............ 
B. Evaluation of Objectives ..........................                                          1
C. Achievement of Objectives ...........................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................                              6
E. Project Sustainability ...........................8
F. Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers ..........................8
G. Borrower Performance ..........................9
H. Assessment of Outcome ...........................9
I.  Future Operation .......................... 10
J.  Key Lessons Leamed ..........................                                              10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I Summary of Assessments .12
Trable 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3   Project Timetable.15
Table 4    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulaiive, Estimated and Actual.                        15
Table 5  Kev Indicators for Project Implementation.                                            16
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                                 17
Table 7 Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A  Project Costs .........................                                              19
Table 8B  Project Financing ..........................:                                        19
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits ......20....................                      , . 20
T'able 10  Status of Legal Covenants ......................... 22
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................... 26
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................... 26
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions ......................................                     27
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan) .......................................       28
B. Borrowcr's Evaluation .....      ..........                      , ,                       40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATITN COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148..PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Electrification Project in
Pakistan, for which Loan 3148-PAK and Creclit 2078-PAK in the aggregate amount of US$ 160 million
equivalent were approved on December 18, 1989 and made effective on November 1, 1990. The original
closing date was December 31, 1995, but the project was closed on June 30, 1997 after an extension of 18
months. The Govemment requested cancellation of US$ 26 million from the Loan in early 1997, once it
became clear that these funds would not be utilized by the Closing Date. Following final disbursements in
December 1997, the balance of US$ 23.77 mbillion was canceled. Financing for the Rural Electrification
program was also provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, in an amount
of US$ 160 million.
The ICR was prepared by Rashid Aziz (Energy Specialist, Islamabad Office). Messrs. Shahid
Sattar and Shahid Hafeez (consultants) participated in the ICR mission during November - December
1997, and contributed the mission's aide-memoire, and in data collection and discussions with WAPDA.
The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen, Team Leader, Energy Sector Unit, South
Asia Region, and cleared by Mr. Sadiq Ahmed, Country Director, Pakistan and Afghanistan, South Asia
Region. The Government and WAPDA were provided the draft ICR for comment, and WAPDA's
comments have been incorporated in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun thirough a Bank mission in November 1997. It is based on
discussions with officials of the Ministry of 'Water and Power and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), and material in the project file. WAPDA contributed to the ICR by contributing to
the mission's aide-memoire, assisting in preparing the statistical informnation for the ICR, and preparing its
own evaluation, the main text of which is attached in Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
In 1989 about 70% of the country's population of about 105 million resided in rural areas.
Improvements in agricultural production (the main source of income for the rural population) brought
about by the Green Revolution had resulted in sustained growth in rural incomes. However, this was not
matched by a corresponding increase in the opportunities for off-farm employment, or in the rural areas'
access to basic social and infrastructure services. Only 30% or rural households had access to electricity
(compared to 70% in urban areas). The rural poor therefore had to rely on commercial fuels, kerosene for
lighting and diesel for irrigation pumping, whose end-use efficiency was substantially lower than that of
electricity.
A critical element for improving rural productivity and reducing rural/urban inequities was the
need to enhance both the quantity as well as quality of social and infrastructure facilities in rural areas. In
keeping with its basic objectives of alleviating poverty and raising the standard of living of the country's
population, GOP accorded a high priority in the Seventh Five Year Plan (FY89-93) toward enhancing the
provision of education, health and basic infrastructure services (including electricity supply, water supply
and sanitation facilities) in rural areas. The Project was designed to support the achievement of GOP's
objective, by enhancing the access to electricity in rural areas.
Proiect Ob;ectives
The objectives of the Project were to assist GOP in improving rural productivity and the quality of
life of the rural population. In addition, it would assist in: (a) rationalizing investments for rural
electrification (RE); (b) establishing a long-term framework for extending the rural network at least cost;
(c) capturing the benefits of investments already made, while improving the reliability and quality of service
and reducing network losses; and (d) minimizing generating capacity shortfalls through better load
management.
The Bank and the Government/WAPDA initially focused on a limited project (envisaging an outlay
of about US$ 60 million, including a Bank Loan of US$ 36 million), to prepare the background
documentation required for carrying out a comprehensive rural electrification program. However, at the
pre-appraisal stage (January-February 1989) the Project scope; was expanded to cover the full Core
Investment Program (CIP) for FY88-93, with an outlay of around US$ 700 million including a Bank
Loan/Credit of about US$ 160 million. More importantly, all of the infonnation to be compiled and the
related studies (which were pre-requisites for the program) were included as components of the Project.
Implementation Experience and Results
Only a limited part of the Project's objectives were achieved, and there were substantial delays in
implementation. While the number of villages electrified exceeded appraisal estimates (7446 villages and
settlements were electrified, compared to the target of 5070), only about 30% of the projected number of
consumer connections were provided -- 153,000 versus the target of 500,000 new connections to be
ii



provided under the Bank financial project. Ac'hievement under the Load Management program were even
lower -- only 127 ripple control devices were linstalled on tubewells (the appraisal estimate was 27,000);
and while 279 Time-of-Day (TOD) meters were installed at large industrial units (the target was 300), only
seven of those consumers had opted for the TO]D tariff by the Closing Date.
By comparison, most of the activities under the Technical Assistance component were carried out,
though there were delays in most activities. This component included: (a) a Financial Management
Improvement Program; (b) development of an automated Accounting and Financial Information System;
(c) selparating RE accounts from WAPDA's overall Power Wing accounts, and maintaining independent
accounts for RE; (d) a program for ensuring the recovery by WAPDA of tubewell connection costs from
agricultural consumers; (e) the mapping of transmission lines and feeders; and (f) preparation of a
comprehensive village level data base, including a ranking of un-electrified villages in terms of their
benefit-cost ratios, as an input for a least-cost FRural Electrification Master Plan (REMP).
Implementation of the Project proved tro be a major challenge for WAPDA and for the Bank. The
Project was declared a Problem Project (or rated Unsatisfactory in terms of Implementation Progress
and/or achievement of its Development Objectives) twice during implementation. This rating was
maintained till the Closing Date. Consequently, it is concluded that the outcome of the Project has been
unsatisfactory, mainly because the key objective of extending electricity supply to the rural population was
only partially achieved. Other operational improvements through the Load Management component were
also not fully achieved.
Even though the Closing Date was extended by the Bank by 18 months, WAPDA was unable to
utilize the available funding, and US$ 49.77 million was ultimately canceled. Of this, US$ 26 million was
canceled in early 1997 at the request of GOP, once it became clear that this amount could not be utilized by
the C losing Date. and the balance was canceled after the Bank had processed the withdrawal applications
received by October 31, 1997.
A number of factors contributed to the adverse outcome, including weaknesses in WAPDA's
overall management of the Project, the fact that the utility was not fully compensated for the costs it had to
incur in implementing the RE program, delays in procurement, and the lack of effective monitoring and
management systems in WAPDA. However, it is also acknowledged that all of the preparatory activities
required for the Project were not completed in time. Specifically, the decision in early 1989 to enhance the
scope of the Project, and to include all the background studies etc. in the Project itself, meant that
agreeiment on the implementation arrangements which were necessary for WAPDA to adequately manage
the Project had not been reached. The responsibility for this shortcoming in project design and preparation
has to be shared jointly by the Bank, GOP and WAPDA.
Sustainability
By itself rural electrification is not a financially viable activity for a utility like WAPDA. This is
confirmed by the Economic Ratc of Return (ERR) calculations. The appraisal estimate of the ERR was
10.9%,/0, based on the consumers' willingness to pay for electricity which implied an average electricity price
of Rs. 2. I/kWh. This was more than twice the level of WAPDA's average revenue per kWh in FY89. The
ex-post ERR calculated for the ICR using the appraisal estimate of willingness to pay (updated to 1993
prices) yields an ERR of 14.5%. However, the financial rate of return for the program (using WAPDA's
average revenues as a proxy for project benefits) is only about 2%. Such low retums cast doubts over the
viability and sustainability of these investments. Since the RE program reflects the Government's social
and equity objectives, one should look for aL source of funding other than the Project itself (e.g. the
Government covering part of the capital and operations and maintenance costs directly from the budget),
for the upkeep and maintenance of the investments.
iii



Summary of Findines
The Project was termed a Problem Project (or rated as Unsatisfactory) for almost half of its
implementation span, and this rating was maintained till the (losing Date. Many activities were not
completed, or only partially completed. In particular, the numbeir of consumer connections provided under
the Project was less than one third the appraisal target. Achievements under the Load Management
program were also well below appraisal estimates.
On balance, the ICR mission rates the outcome of the Project as unsatisfactory, mainly because the
key objective of extending electricity supply to the rural population was only partially achieved.
Future Operations
The ICR mission discussed with WAPDA a number of measures that could be taken, to improve
and sustain the operation of the assets installed under the Project. The main actions are:
*  WAPDA must provide in its annual budget adequate funds for the operation and maintenance of the
RE network, and expedite the release of these funds to the Area Boards;
*  WAPDA should review its design standards and specifications for equipment installed on the rural
network, and adjust those specifications to reflect the prevailing load characteristics;
*  WAPDA must also strengthen its customer service functions, particularly iri rural areas, and expedite
consumer connections in electrified villages; promote the adoption of load management schemes; and
improving its meter reading, billing and collection performance; and
*  GOP and WAPDA also need to evaluate the full cost that WAPDA has to incur for the RE program,
and develop mechanisms to compensate WAPDA for such costs.
Key Lessons Learned
One of the key lessons of this Project is that there is no substitute for thorough project preparation.
Implementation will inevitably be unsatisfactory unless all the required preparatory studies and reviews are
carried out in advance, implementation procedures and the arrangements for monitoring and coordination
are agreed at appraisal, and the required managerial, technical and. financial resources are clearly identified.
It is also unrealistic to expect a utility to carry out activities for which it is not adequately
compensated. The RE Project falls in the category of investments. WAPDA's average tariffs are presently
too low to recover the costs of the RE program; rationalizing the tariff structure, and raising average tariffs
to a level which enables WAPDA to recover more of its costs, should thus be accorded a high priority.
Also, in the absence of a funding source that limits WAPDA's share of the costs of the program to a
manageable level, ensuring the full commitment of WAPDA management and staff to this programn will be
difficult, if not impossible.
Finally, RE programs require a substantially higher commitment of resources than other
investments. In particular, the administrative and overhead costs of RE are larger than for other projects.
These investments also impose larger demand on the utility's management -- for coordinating and
monitoring a complex and geographically dispersed set of activities.
iv



IMPLEMENTATIODN COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148..PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:        Rural Electrification Project
Loan/Credit No.:     Loan 3148-PAK, Credit 2078-PAK
RVP Unit:            South Asia Region
Country:             Pakistan
Sector:              Energy
Sub-sector:          Power
1.    Background. The Water and Power I)evelopment Authority (WAPDA) was established in 1958,
as a semi-autonomous agency for coordinating and developing Pakistan's water and power resources. It is
responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout the country, except
Karachi. WAPDA is organized into two wings, one for water and the other for power related activities.
The activities of WAPDA referred to in this report relate only to the Power Wing.
2.    In 1989 about 70% of the country's population of about 105 million resided in rural areas.
Agriculture was the main source of income and employment for almost two-thirds of the rural population.
Improvements in agricultural production brought about by the Green Revolution during the previous two
decades had substantially increased rural incomes. However, this was not matched by increases in the
opportunities for off-farm employment, or in the access to basic social and infrastructure services. For
example, only 30% of rural households had access to electricity, compared to 70% of the urban population.
The rural poor therefore had to reply on commercial fuels, kerosene for lighting and diesel for irrigation
pumping, whose end-use efficiency is substantially lower than of electricity.  Also because of the
remoteness of villages, rural consumers had to pay more for these fuels than their urban counterparts.
3.     A critical element for improving productivity and reducing rural/urban inequities was the need to
enhance the quantity and quality of social and infrastructure facilities in rural areas. However, this task had
to be carried out concurrently with a reduction in per capita public expenditures, which was one of the key
policy requirements of the medium-term adjustment program adopted by GOP in FY89. Notwithstanding
this requirement, and in keeping with its basic objectives of alleviating poverty and raising the standard of
living of the country's population, GOP accorded a high priority in the Seventh Five Year Plan (FY89-93)
toward enhancing the provision of education, health and basic infrastructure services (electricity, water
supply and sanitation facilities) in rural areas. The Project was designed to support the achievement of
GOP's objective, by enhancing the access to electricity in rural areas.
B.     Evaluation of Obiectives
4.     Project Objectives. The main objective of the Project was to assist GOP in improving rural
productivity and the quality of life of the rural population. In addition, it would assist in: (a) rationalizing
investments for Rural Electrification (RE); (b) establishing a long-term framework for extending the rural
network at least cost; (c) capturing the benefits of investments already made, while improving the reliability
1



and quality of service and reducing network losses; and (d) minimizing generating capacity shortfalls
through better load management.
5.     Project Description. The Project covered GOP's 7-year (FY89-96) Core Investment Program
(CIP) for RE, and included the following components:
A.    Infrastructure Development:   This included:
(a)    extending electricity supply to new villages and settlements;
(b)    connecting to the grid settlements in close proxiimity of already electrified villages (back-
filling);
(c)    expanding consumer connections in already electrified villages and settlements;
(d)    reinforcing and rehabilitating the existing rural distribution network; and
(e)    extending electricity supply to tubewells located within the project area.
B.    Technical Assistance:  This component covered:
(a)    the mapping of villages and settlements in the country;
(b)    installing load management schemes; and
(c)    consultancy services.
The detailed Project description for the overall RE program" covered:
*  electrification of 6,700 villages and 5,000 settlements, and provision of about 1.2 million domestic,
18,600 commercial and 11,600 industrial connections, and extension of electricity supply to 27,000
tubewells;
* installation of 300 special meters at the largest industrial un:its, for the introduction of peak/off peak
pricing, and of load management devices on 27,000 tubewells;
*  preparation of a Rural Electrification Master Plan (REMP), including the mapping of transmission
lines and feeders, and a comprehensive village level data baLse. REMP would, inter alia, include a
ranking of villages and settlements in terms of their benefit-cost ratio;
*  implementation of a comprehensive Financial Management Improvement Plan (FMIP) involving:
-      separation of RE accounts from WAPDA's overall Power Wing accounts, and maintaining
separate accounts for RE from FY92 onwards;
-      review of security deposit rates each year, and their adjustment to reflect the ensuing year's
average billing for each consumer category;
-      automation of WAPDA's accounting and financial information system, and implementation of a
reorganization plan for its Finance functions;
-      annual review by WAPDA and the Bank of arrangements for setting aside funds in a sinking fund
for retiring WAPDA bonds, an actuarial study, an aging analysis of WAPDA's receivable, and the
This description covers the full RE program. Components of the program that were to be financed through
the Bank Loan and Credit included 2900 villages and 2170 settlements, involving about 514,000 new residential,
8000 commercial, 5040 industrial and 11750 tubewell connections.
2



adjustment of accounts to reflect only those receivable that were outstanding for less than three
years and deemed collectible; and
measures to enable WAPDA to recover tubewell connection costs from agricultural consumers
over the life of the tubewells, and preparation of an action plan to enable WAPDA to enhance the
recovery of costs of rural electrification.
In addition, the Bank's standard financial covenants -- which require WAPDA to finance 40% of its three
year average capital expenditure program through intemal cash generations (ICG) and to maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times -- were repeated under the project.
6.    Project Cost and Financing Plan. Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
and taxes and duties was estimated at US$ 662 million. Total financing required, including interest during
construction (US$ 54 million) was estimated at US$ 715 million. Of the total amount US$ 325 was
expected to be in foreign exchange, and US$ 390 million was to be in local currency. The Bank Loan and
Credit were expected to finance about 50% of the foreign exchange requirements.
7.    Preparation of the Project was initiatedi through an Identification Mission in December 1987.
Discussions between the Bank and GOP/WAP]DA initially focused on (a) the information required for
preparing the REMP; (b) mapping of villages and settlements; (c) WAPDA's design and engineering
standards for RE; (d) procurement arrangements; (e) criteria for selecting villages and settlements to be
electrified under the Project; and (f) other issues regarding the financial viability of the RE program. Given
the wide range of issues that still remained outstanding, Bank missions (including the November 1988
Preparation Mission) had focused on a limited project -- largely to prepare the information required for a
comprehensive RE program, while financing a 2-3 year time slice of RE investments. The cost of this
project was estimated at US$ 60 million, including a Bank Loan/Credit of around US$ 36 million.
8.    However, at pre-appraisal (January-February 1989) the Project scope was expanded to cover the
full CIP for RE, with an outlay of around US$ 700 million including a Bank Loan and Credit of about US$
160 million. More importantly, all the information to be compiled and the related studies (which were pre-
requisites for the program) were included as components of the Project. Information available in Bank
records (which was reviewed by the ICR mission) regarding the discussion at the pre-appraisal stage does
not provide insight about the reasons for this (sudden) change in the scope of the Project. Clearly, the
decision must have reflected a consensus between GOP, WAPDA and the Bank; however, the underlying
reasons for this decision do not appear to have been spelt out in any documents. In retrospect, this change
in project scope led to agreement on a Project definition and objectives which were very ambitious, and for
which the background preparatory work had not been completed.
9.    The Project was appraised in June 1989. negotiations were held during November 9-15, 1989; and
the Project was approved by the Bank's Board on December 18, 1989. The Legal Documents were signed
on February 2, 1990, and the target date for effectiveness was May 2, 1990, However, in view of delays in
WAPDAlGOP's compliance with the conditions for effectiveness, including approval of the PC-1,
execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements and submission of Legal Opinions, and (by default) in meeting
the dated covenants for end-June and end-September 1990, the target date was extended twice by the Bank
-- to August 2, 1990, and subsequently to November 2, 1990. Once the conditions for effectiveness had
been met by GOP and WAPDA, the Project was declared effective on November 1, 1990. The original
Closing Date for the Project was December 31, 1995. However, in response to a request by GOP and
WAPDA, and recognizing that a significant portion of the equipment and materials, services and works
contracts awarded by WAPDA would not be completed by December 1995, a one-time extension of 18
months was approved by the Bank, and the Project closed on June 30, 1997.
3



C.    Achievement of Obiectives
10.   By June 30, 1997, only a limited number of Project Objectives were met, both in expanding
electricity to rural consumers, and on the Load Management components (details are listed in Appendix:
A). While the number of villages electrified exceeded appraisal estimates (7446 villages and settlements
were electrified under the Bank financial component, compared to the target of 5070), only about 30% of
the projected number of consumers were connected (about 153,000 versus the target of 500,000 new
connections). Achievement of the targets under the Load Management program was even lower -- only 127
ripple control devices were installed on tubewells (the appraisal estimate was 27,000); and while 279 Time-
of-Day (TOD) meters were installed at large industrial units (compared to a target of 300), only seven of
those consumers had opted for the TOD tariff by the Closing Date.
11.   The main reason for the low level of consumer connections was that in the initial years WAPDA
had focused mainly on developing the distribution infrastructure for village electrification. Activities
carried out during this period were largely confined to the procurement of equipment, and the
selection/appointment of consultants and construction contractors. There was thus a delay in recognition,
by both WAPDA and the Bank, that the key objective of the Project -- i.e. improving the rural consumers'
access to electricity -- was not receiving adequate attention. The fact that consumers have to pay the full
connection charges at the time of the connection could also have accounted for the low rate of connections.
A few interviews were conducted in rural areas during the ICR mission, where some consumers did point
out their difficulties in paying connection charges in one installment. However, in this regard it must be
noted that (a) at any given time WAPDA has large numbers of pending requests for connections (in both
urban and rural areas) where consumers have paid connection charges, or are willing to pay these demand;
and (b) in case the up-front payment was a major constraint, a mechanism for payment through
installments (similar to the scheme for tubewell connection costs) could have been prepared and
implemented. Therefore, the conclusion of the ICR mission is that the low rate of consumer connections
reflects largely a failure by WAPDA and the Bank to acknowledge this key objective at an early stage of
Project implementation.
12.    On the Load Management components, however, the limited achievement of appraisal targets must
be attributed to institutional and procedural weaknesses in WAPDA, since the Bank had been pointing out
since 1992 that this component was not proceeding according to schedule. The procurement of ripple
control devices was initiated by WAPDA about five years after the ]Project had started, hence a very limited
number of devices were installed. As regards the TOD tariffs, WAPDA initially did not recognize that it
could not legally implement these tariffs unilaterally, and the consumers' consent was required. Discussions
to obtain the consumers' consent were initiated in the last year of the Project. Since then there appears to
have been a steady increase in the number of consumers opting for the TOD tariff.
13.    By contrast, most of the activities included in the Technical Assistance component were completed,
though there were delays in almost all of the activities. Specifically:
* pilot testing of parameters for separating RE accounts from WAPDA's Power Wing accounts was
completed in January 1992, and independent accounts for RE were maintained from FY93 onwards;
* the reorganization of WAPDA's Finance functions was implemented by December 1991; actuarial and
internal audit studies were completed and the recommendations implemented; and WAPDA carried out
periodic reviews of security deposit rates, aging analysis of its receivables, and the arrangements for
setting aside amounts in a sinking fund for retiring bonds; however, due to other (financial) constraints,
WAPDA was not always in able to carry out the required follow up actions -- e.g. adjustment of the
balance sheet, or setting aside adequate amounts in the sinking fund;
4



* the study to design an automated Accounting and Financial Information System (AFIS) was completed
(with the assistance of foreign consultants) in early 1994, and computer hardware and software to
implement a pilot program was procured uncler the Project;
*  a scheme was developed by WAPDA and the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan by which
WAPDA could recover tubewell connection costs from consumers, over the life of the tubewells;
*  the mapping of transmission lines and feeders was initiated under USAID funding, and by the time
USAID assistance was terminated, a major portion of the distribution network had been mapped; and
*  the development of a comprehensive village level data base was initiated through OECF funding, and
completed under the Bank Loan/Credit. Under this exercise, a ranking of about 33,000 villages and
settlements in terms of their benefit-cost ratio, was also prepared.
14.   During much of the implementation period, WAPDA's financial performance was satisfactory. Up
to FY96, WAPDA complied with the ICG and dlebt service coverage (DSC) ratios - with the exception of
FY94 when the ICG ratio was 28% and DSC was 0.9, essentially because there was no increase in power
tariff during FY 93. Timely adjustments in tariffs by GOP, as well as periodic step to check the growth in
Government receivables, enabled WAPDA to meet these targets. However, from FY97 WAPDA's financial
situation has deteriorated sharply, and it has been unable to meet the financial covenants during FYs 97 and
98. The main reasons for this adverse performance are:
(i)    operational inefficiencies, as reflected by the continued high level of system losses (around 24%);
(ii)   delays in tariff adjustments, and no tariff increases between February 1997 and March 1998;
(iii)   substantial power purchases from the private sector, representing an expenditure of about Rs. 35
billion in FY97 and Rs. 53 billion in FY98;
(iv)   substantial investments for the construction phase of Ghazi Barotha (Rs. 6 billion in FY97 and Rs.
10 billion in FY98, compared to about Its 350 million during FYs 94 and 95); and
(v)    a large build up (particularly since June 1997) in government arrears to WAPDA, when the
provincial governments essentially stopped paying their electricity bills.
15.   WAPDA's response to these large increases in costs has been to defer payments to its suppliers
(Rs 22.5 billion arrears by March 98), bridge financing from GOP, as well as defaulting on its debt
servicing liabilities to GOP, and short term bank borrowing. Since early 1998 GOP/WAPDA and the
Bank have held discussions on a comprehensive reform program for the power sector, which would involve
a major organizational and institutional restructuring of WAPDA, and also a financial restructuring plan to
put its finances on a sustainable footing overtime next 2-3 years.
16.   Even though the Closing Date was extended by 18 months, WAPDA was unable to utilize the full
amount available under the Loan/Credit, and UIS$ 49.77 million (US$ 49.48 million from the Loan and
US$ 0.29 million from the Credit) was canceled. Of this, US$ 26 million was canceled at the request of
GOP, while the remaining US$ 23.77 million was canceled after the Bank had processed the withdrawal
applications received by October 31, 1997. Cancellation of almost 30% of the Bank Loan/Credit supports
the view that the funding requirements for Project component that could be implemented in a reasonable
time span were not adequately scrutinized at appraisal. Of course, if the full scope (involving 350,000
additional connections) had been implemented, the amount canceled would have been lower. WAPDA has
also pointed out that contractors' bills amounting to about Rs 23 million were not reimbursed from the
Loan, since the bills were verified by the Director (Planning) of the area boards, not by the consultants. If
5



the Bank had paid those amounts from the Loan, the canceled amount would have been further reduced.
The Bank could not accept WAPDA's request for funding those expenditures because the change in the
respective contracts (i.e., verification by the area boards rather than by the consultants) was made by
WAPDA after the Closing Date.
D.    Major Factors Affectine the Project
17.    Project Design and quality at entry: Implementation of the Project was substantially delayed, and
the objectives were met to only a limited extent. While a number of factors accounted for the shortfall, it is
important to focus on one major issue for which the responsibility has to be shared more widely. As noted
in paras 7-8 of Section B above, up to end-1988 the Bank, GOP and WAPDA were discussing a project
with a limited scope. However, in early 1989 the Project definition was abruptly expanded to cover the full
RE investment program for FY89-93, and all the preparatory studies etc. were included as components of
this Project. Consequently, the Project was initiated when much of the preparatory work had not been
completed, and agreement still had to be reached on the detailed implementation arrangements and
resources which WAPDA needed to put in place. The responsibility for this shortcoming in project design
and preparation has to be shared jointly by the Bank, GOP and WAPDA.
18.    Financina the RE Program: Rural Electrification is not a financially viable activity for any utility,
including WAPDA. This is confirmed by the Rate of Return calculations carried out at appraisal, and for
the ICR (see paras 25-26 and Part II -- Tables 9A and B). From those calculations it is clear that
WAPDA's average tariff is below the cost of supply, as well as consumers' willingness to pay; also the
(financial) returns do not compensate WAPDA for the costs it has to incur. Thus, in the absence of a
source of funding which restricts WAPDA's share of the costs to a manageable level, it is difficult to
ensure WAPDA's full commitment to and ownership of the RE program. WAPDA in fact implements the
program only in response to the Government's social or other policy objectives. However, the Government
provides funds to WAPDA for rural electrification as a cash development loan, which WAPDA has to
repay at commercial rates of interest.
19.    Under this Project GOP had agreed to prepare (jointly with the Bank) by December 31, 1992 an
Action Plan to enable WAPDA to enhance the recovery of (its) costs of rural electrification. However, this
plan does not appear to have been prepared, and no reasons for the lack of action on this agreement are
available in any Bank documents, or in WAPDA's records. Similarly, as part of the preparation for new
Project, and also during supervision, the Bank kept highlighting to GOP the need to rationalize the tariff
structure. However, tariff adjustments made up to March 1998 do not appear to have contributed towards
rationalizing the tariff structure. Only in 1997 was a decision taken to eliminate flat-rate tariffs (for
tubewells and residential consumers in Federally Administered 'Tribal Areas); the March 1998 tariff
increase also included measures to reduce the disparity between low tariff (residential) and high tariff
(commercial and industrial) consumers.
20.    The Project also did not incorporate lessons on Project design and implementation arrangements
which were being built into RE programs in other countries. Thus the Project was implemented by
WAPDA, a vertically integrated and centralized utility. By contrast a decentralized approach, involving a
major role for Rural Electricity Cooperatives in operation and maiintenance, billing and collection, and in
developing tariff structures for rural areas, had been developed in Bangladesh. Even in the late 1980s some
initial results of this approach were available, and apparently the experience was quite successful,
particularly for billing and collection, and overall operation of the networks. However, even there it is
recognized that subsidies are required for RE programs, particularly in the initial years. These include (a)
direct operating subsidies during the initial years; (b) through the bulk supply tariff for power sold to the
Cooperatives, which is below the long-run marginal cost; or (c) through grants and soft on-lending terrns
on loans to finance investments.
6



21.   Institutional Capacitv: Another significant factor accounting for the delays was the weakness in
WAPDA's institutional capacity to manage the program. For example, it was agreed during the preparation
miissioias that WAPDA would appoint a full time project director (of the level of General Manager,
supported by four Chief Engineers). However, till mid-1993 the program was managed by WAPDA's
Chief Engineer for Construction, Maintenance and Operations, who handled the RE program as an addition
to his other responsibilities. Similarly, the Bank pointed out in June-July 1990 that WAPDA needed to
initiate, the process of hiring consultants for preparing engineering designs and for construction supervision,
since 'WAPDA's in-house resources were inadequate for carrying out these activities. However, the
Requests for Proposals were issued only in February 1992. In its evaluation (Appendix B, para 4.16.4),
WAPDA has expressed the view that WAPI)A could have carried out the detailed engineering and
supervision itself, and did not need to hire consultants for this purpose. While a review of the resources
and staff that were available in WAPDA is beyDnd the scope of this ICR, one cannot avoid the conclusion
that there was a need for better definition of the implementation arrangements and resources which
WAPI)A needed to have in place, before the Project was initiated. There was also a significant delay in the
appointment of construction contractors, and the first batch of contractors for the RE program was
appointed in late 1994.
22.   Procurement activities also indicated substantial scope for improvement, both in the preparation of
bidding documents, and at the evaluation, Bank approval, and contract award stage. The ICR mission
reviewed a number of procurement cases, and observed that on average it took WAPDA six months to
finalize and submit a bid evaluation report to the Bank, while Bank clearance of bid evaluation reports took
an average of 2.9 months. While each procurement needs to be handled individually, and such averages
could thus be misleading, it is felt that the elapsed time between receipt of bids and finalization of the
contract could have been reduced by up to a third, if the evaluation, review and approval systems in
WAPDA and the Bank had functioned efficiently. WAPDA has also stated that procurement activities were
delayed because the Bank's fonnats for bidding documents were changed during implementation (Appendix
B, para 4.10). This is partly correct, since there have been a number of amendments to the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents in recent years. In order to avoid disruptions in the procurement process, it is
important that such changes be confined to only the most critical items/issues.
23.    Monitoring Arrangements: Project activities were spread across many departments, and WAPDA
needecl to develop a comprehensive monitoring system for coordinating and effectively managing all project
components. This detailed monitoring system was not developed in a timely manner; as a result, WAPDA
was unable to maintain effective control over ilts own departments, or its equipment suppliers, consultants
and contractors. The most serious consequence of this weakness was the shortfall in achieving the target
for consumer connections -- a key objective of the Project. By end-1995 (i.e. 5 years after the start of the
Project) only about 30,000 consumer connections had been provided in "electrified" villages. Once the
Bank brought this shortfall to the attention of WAPDA management, WAPDA instituted a more rigorous
systemi for providing connections. As a result, during the next 18 months, the number of connections
increased fourfold, and about 153,000 consumier connections were provided by the Closing Date. This
illustrates how an effective monitoring system could have substantially enhanced WAPDA's achievement
of Project objectives. In case the Bank had alerted WAPDA about this shortfall earlier, the actual outcome
could have been even more favorable.
24.    Project implementation also suffered initially due to delays in finalizing the lists of villages to be
electrified. During negotiations, GOP and WAPDA had agreed with the Bank on the criteria for selection
of such villages. However, under GOP policy the initial lists were provided by federal and provincial
legislators. The process of selecting villages for electrification in any year thus entailed three steps --
identification by legislators, review by GOP, and verification by WAPDA that the villages met the criteria
agreed with the Bank or other donors. Not only was this time consuming, it also made it difficult for
WAPDA to plan the survey/design and construction activities, since the lists were often finalized by the
middle of the fiscal year. WAPDA continued to experience these difficulties till about 1994.
7



E.    Project Sustainability
25.    Ex-post rate of return calculations were carried out by WA]PDA and the mission, using the average
tariff as well as the appraisal estimate of willingness to pay (adjusted to FY93 prices) as a proxy for
project benefits. The former yields a (financial) rate of return of only about 2%, whereas the ERR (based
on willingness to pay) is about 14.5% (see Part II -- Tables 9A and 9B). The difference between this
estimate and the appraisal ERR (10.9%) reflects, among others, the lower number of consumers connected,
as well as variations in load characteristics. The appraisal estimate of annual electricity consumption for
rural households was about 225 kWh; by contrast, WAPDA's records show average consumption of
domestic consumers in rural areas in the range of 1400-1600 kWh/year. The WAPDA numbers seem to be
higher than the average for low income households; nevertheless, the ICR mission did not have access to
any additional information which could be used to verify the accuracy of either of these estimates.
26.   The very low (financial) retums from the RE program cast doubt over the viability and
sustainability of these investments. Since RE reflects the Governrent's social and equity objectives, one
should look for a source of funding other than the Project itself, for the Sustainability maintenance of these
investments. One option could be that the Government should bear part of the capital and O&M costs of
the RE program directly from the budget, since the decision to undertake these investments is primarily
that of the Government. However, as indicated above the Government provides funds to WAPDA for RE
as a Cash Development loan (which is among the more expensive forms of WAPDA's debts); also GOP
did not prepare an Action Plan which could have enabled WAPDA to recover a larger portion of the costs
it has to incur for the RE Program, either from consumers or from other sources.
F.     Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers
27.    Preparation and implementation of the Project reflected the joint interests and efforts of WAPDA
and a number of financiers, including the Bank, OECF and USAID. The projects supported by each
funding agency were approved independently, and thus it is more appropriate to classify it as "parallel
financing" rather than "co-financing". However, the financiers were able to coordinate and complement
their activities to a very large extent. For example, USAID was able to finance most of the mapping of
transmission lines and feeders. OECF provided initial funding for the village data base, which was
consolidated into the REMP with complementary financing from the Bank.
28.   The Bank's appraisal of the Project was based on information available with WAPDA and GOP at
that time. The SAR identified in reasonable detail the additional information to be compiled, in order to
implement a least-cost RE program, and the Loan/Credit provided sufficient funds for those activities to be
carried out.
29.   During supervision the Bank focused on expediting WAPDA's implementation of the various
Project components. Thus the Bank frequently highlighted the delays in procurement, or weaknesses in
contract management, which were hampering specific activities. The Project was declared a Problem
Project or rated as '"Unsatisfactory" in terms of Implementation Progress and Development Objectives
twice by the Bank -- first in mid-1993 when procurement delays started becoming pronounced; and the
second time from early 1996 to the Closing Date, when it became clear that a key project objective, i.e. the
provision of consumer connections, was not been met. The Bank and WAPDA regularly agreed on detailed
Action Plans, to put project implementation back on track. The adverse project rating served as a reminder
for WAPDA as well as the Bank that the project represented a major challenge, and addressing the key
bottlenecks required special efforts and the full commitment of resources by both agencies. The
unsatisfactory implementation experience could have justified a decision by the Bank not to extend the
Closing Date. However, the Government and WAPDA had consistently advocated that the Project was a
high priority, particularly since it supported the Government's social objective of improving living
8



conditions in rural areas. Also, since Action Plans to improve project implementation were developed and
agreed during most supervision missions, the Bank as well as GOP/WAPDA expected that the execution of
the Project would improve. In retrospect, the decision to extend the Closing Date was probably justified,
because a major share of the consumer connections that were provided under the Project were installed
during the last 18-24 months. Regarding the Bank's performance during supervision, WAPDA has stated
that Bank missions ".. always had a large agenda (which) left limited time (for reviewing) progress on the
Project, for site visits and meeting implementation staff, and for providing support and assistance in
resolving implementation problems." It is acknowledged there could always be scope for additional
suppott from Bank missions. However, a review of mission aide memoires, etc. indicates that Bank
missions devoted considerable time in supervising the Project, and provided assistance (wherever possible)
for resolving the key implementation problems.
G.    Borrower Performance
30.    WAPDA undertook the Project in a difficult environment, when its own financial resources were
increasingly constrained. The fact that rural electrification activities are generally not viable on their own
added to the challenge. The scope of activities was also substantially larger, and spread over a wider
geographic area, than WAPDA's normal distribution investments. Specifically, WAPDA's annual
distribution program (for both urban and rural areas) involves an investment of about Rs 3 billion. The
RE Project alone entailed investments of about Rs 21 billion over 7-8 years, which almost doubled the
scope of the distribution program. Such a large increase in distribution activities required a major
enhancement of the manpower, managerial and financial resources which WAPDA had to assign to the
Project.
31.    Despite these constraints, there was substantial room for improvement in WAPDA's execution of
the Project. Its overall performance in implementing the Project therefore cannot be termed satisfactory.
While Bank missions pointed out the major shortcomings, those efforts were negated by frequent changes in
staff, notably the Chief Engineer/General Manager. Action Plans developed jointly with Bank missions
also served more as a reporting tool for recording compliance with previously agreed actions rather than as
an input for more effective managerial control over the various Project components.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
32.    The Project was termed a Problem Project (or rated as Unsatisfactory) for almost half of its
implementation span, and this rating was maintained at the Closing Date. Also, many of the envisaged
activities were not completed, or only partially completed. This is particularly relevant for the number of
consumer connections, which by the Closing Date amounted to less than one third the appraisal target. The
achievement of targets under the Load Management program was similarly well below appraisal estimates.
33.   In its evaluation, WAPDA has stated that the target of about 500,000 consumer connections was
not realistic. This is due to the fact that a village of 200 inhabitants would on average have about 30
households; even assuming full saturation (i.e. electrification of all households in the village) the maximum
number of connections which could be provided in about 5,000 villages is 150,000. While this is true for
villages with 200 in habitants, it must be recognized that a population of 200 was agreed as the minimum
level for any village to be eligible for electrification. The average population for all villages electrified
under the Project must have been substantially higher. The total number of households (and thus the
number of connections that could be providedl) would be correspondingly larger. This conclusion is also
reinforced by the fact that almost 120,000 new consumers were connected during the last 18 months of
Project. By contrast, during the initial 5 years of the Project, when WAPDA had not focused on this
objective, only about 30,000 connections were provided.
9



34.    On balance, the assessment of the ICR mission is that the outcome of the Project was
unsatisfactory, mainly because the key objective of extending electricity supply to the rural population was
only partially achieved.   Other operational improvements that were envisaged through a more
comprehensive implementation of the Load Management components were also not achieved.
I.     Future Operation
35.    The ICR mission discussed with WAPDA a number of measures that could be implemented for
improving and sustaining the operation of the assets installed under the Project. These are presented in the
mission's aide memoire and the Operational Plan. Some of the major actions are listed below:
*  WAPDA must provide in its annual budget adequate funds for the operation and maintenance of the
RE network, and expedite the release of these funds to the Area Boards;
*  WAPDA  should also periodically review the standards and specifications of equipment (e.g.
transformers) installed in rural areas, and adjust its design standards in light of the prevailing load
characteristics. In particular, the replacement of lightly loaded or overloaded transformers with more
appropriate sized transformers should be accorded a high priority.
*  WAPDA also needs to strengthen its customer service functions e.g. by recruiting professionals to
assist it in expediting consumer connections; promoting the adoption of load management schemes; and
improving its meter reading, billing and collection performance in rural areas.
36.    Perhaps the most important issue for the continued operation of the rural networks is the need for
GOP and WAPDA to evaluate the full cost that WAPDA has to incur in implementing the program, and to
develop mechanisms to compensate WAPDA for such costs. WAPDA agreed with the ICR mission to
prepare by March 31, 1998 a Strategy Paper for GOP's consideration, which would include proposals on
how WAPDA could recover its costs. This activity should be accordled a high priority by WAPDA.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
36.    A key lesson of this Project is that there is no substitute for thorough project preparation.
Implementation will inevitably be unsatisfactory unless the required preparatory studies and reviews are
carried out in advance, implementation procedures and monitoring and coordination requirements are spelt
out in the appraisal reports, and agreed prior to the start of physical activities.
37.    Similarly, it is not realistic to expect a utility to carry out activities for which it is not adequately
compensated. The RE Project falls in the category of investments. Firstly, WAPDA's tariffs are too low
to recover the costs of the RE program; reform of the tariff structure, as well as raising average tariffs to a
level that enables WAPDA to recover more of the costs for the RE program, should be accorded a high
priority. Secondly, RE programs generally cannot be implemented without subsidies -- both for operating
expenses, and particularly for the recovery of capital costs. In the absence of funding sources that limit
WAPDA's share of these costs to a manageable level, ensuring the full commitment of WAPDA's
management and staff to this program would be difficult, if not impossible.
38.    Finally, RE programs require a substantially higher commitment of resources than other
investments. Because of remote locations and the relatively lower consumer loads in rural areas, these
investments entail larger administrative and overhead costs. For the same reason, RE investments impose
larger demand on the utility's management -- for coordinating and monitoring the activities which are
spread over a wide geographic area, and involve large numbers of (rellatively small value) contracts.
10



IMPLEMENTA1'ION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.314+-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Part II - Statistical Tables
11



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICAT1ON PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAlK)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial       Neplipible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   O              O               0               0
Sector Policies                  0              0               O               0
Financial Objectives             O              0               0               0
Institutional Development        O              O               0               O
Physical Objectives              O              El              0               0
Poverty Reduction                O              0               0               El
Gender Issues                    O              O               0               El
Other Social Objectives          1 :                            0               0
Environmental Objectives         O              0               0               0
Public Sector Management         O              O               0               0
Private Sector Development       O              O               O               0
Other (specify)                  C1             0               0               0
B. Proiect Sustainability           Likely               Unlikelv                Uncertain
E                      0                       El
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                                         0                       
Preparation Assistance           E                      E                       0
Appraisal                         E                     E                        0
Supervision                      E                      0                       El
HiLhly
D. Borrower Performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                               E              E             0
Implementation                            O              O             0
Covenant Compliance                       O             0              0
Operation (if applicable)                 O              O             O
Highlv                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
E             0               0               0
12



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table-2 Related Bank Loans/Credits
Cr/Ln. No.                   Purpose                                         Yr. of  Status               Comments
and Title                                                                    Apprv.
A. Preceding OClerations
Cr.213-PAK WAPDA             Upgrading Capacity of Transmission              1970      Closed             Completed with delay of
Power Project                Network                                                   (12/31/78)         five years.
WAPDA- I
Ln 1208-PAK Second           Finance part of 500-Kv Trans. System            1976      Closed             Successfully completed,
WAPDA Power Project          connecting hydro in north & thermal                       (09/30/82)         with 1 year delay.
(WAPDA II)                   gen. in south.
Cr.968-PAK Third             Finance 4-year tranche of program                1979     Closed              Successfully completed but
WAPDA Power Project          for dev. of secondary transmission.                       (12/31/85)         with 3 year delay
(WAPDA III)
Ln.2499-PAK Fourth           Finance 4-year tranche of program                1985     Closed              Successfully Completed, but
WAPDA Power Project          for development of secondary                              (12/31/92)         with 3 year delay. PCR
(WAPDA IV)                   transmission.                                                                 dated 6/21/95.
Ln.2556-PAK Fifth            Assist. WAPDA in reinforcement of                1985     Closed              Completed but with a delay
WAPDA Power Project          EHV power transmission network                            (12/31/98)         of 3 years. Guddu-Jamshoro
(WAPDA- V)                   reducing transmission losses.                                                section completed in August
1995
Ln.2698-PAK Kot Addu         Installation of 200 MW additional                1986     Closed              Completed with two Years
Combined Cycle Power         generating capacity at Kot Addu                           (06/30/93)          delay; PCR dated 11/27/95
Project (WAPDA-VI)           Power Station.
Ln.2792-PAK Power            Finance program for rehabilitation               1987    Closed               Completed with two years
Plant Efficiency Improvement   of 7 power plants and addition of                       (06/30/94)         delay; ICR dated 03/06/1996
Project (WAPDA-VIl) Combined Cycle generation at
two Power Plants.
Ln.3147-PAK                  Installation of 2 single circuit 500-Kv'         1989     Closed             Completed; ICR
Transmission Extension      transmission lines between Hub Power                       (12/31/96)         dated 06/18/97.
and Reinforcement            Complex & Jamshoro; installation of                                          Jamshoro-Guddu third line not
Project                      a third single Circuit 500-Kv line                                           completed as yet.
between Jamshoro and Guddu, and Guddu
and Multan, and a second single-circuit
500-Kv one between Multan & Lahoire via Gatti;
Extension and reinforcement of existing
500-Kv sub stations at Lahore, Gatti,,.
Multan & Guddu.
Ln.3148/Cr.2078-PAK          Extending the supply of electricity to          1989      Closed             Completed; subject of this
Rural Electrification        new villages and settlements,                             (06/30/97)         ICR.
Project                      connecting to the grid settlements of
electrified villages; expanding
consumer connections; reinforcing
and rehabilitating existing distributioin
network; extending electricity supply
to tubewells; mapping of all villages and
settlements; and installing load
management schemes.
B. Following Operations
Ln. 3764-PAX Power           Restructuring & privatization component         1994      Ongoing            Closing date 6/99
Sectaor Development          to implement a Strategic Plan including
Project                     reorganization and corporatization oF
WAPDA; investment component to implement
a timeline (I995.1998) of WAPDA's
investment program
13



Ln.3965-PAK Ghazi           Assist GOP in its efforts to: (a)              1995     Ongoing            Being implemented
Barotha Hydropower          develop domestic energy resources and reduce   12/19/95
Project                    load-shedding in a cost effective and
environmentally sustainable manner, (b)
reinforce and complement the reform program
for the power sector, (c) strengthen WAPDA's
capability to address environmental and resettlement
issues related to hydropower Project; and (d) further
rationalize the use of electricity
C. Related Loans
Ln.2552-PAK Energy          Finance GOP's program for policy reform and inst  1985  Closed             Successfully completed
Sector Loan                 development during Sixth Five Year Plan                 (12/31/SS)
(FYS3-88)
Ln. 3107-PAK Second Finance GOP's program for policy reform and inst.      1989 &   Closed             Completed, ICR dated
Energy Sector Loan          development during Seventh Five Year Plan      1991    (12/31/94)          March 15, 1996
(FY89-93)
Ln.2842-PAK Refinery        To improve operational efficiency at           1987     Closed             Completed; ICR dated
Energy Conservation and     NRL by reducing energy consumption,                     (06/30/96)         06/17197
Modernization Project increasing crude processing capacity,
and modifying the output mix to better
match product demand.
Ln.3252-PAK Corporate       Finance program for restr./privatization       1990 &   Ongoing            ICR to be prepared
Restructuring and System    of SNGPL, and expansion of its                 1991     Closing date
Expansion Project          transmission and distribution network                    06/30/98
capacity by about 50%o. Under the Project
SNGPL constructed a pipeline between Multan
& Kot Addu for supplying natural gas to
the power stations
Ln.3500-PAK Domestic        Accelerate development of                      1992     Closing date       To be prepared
Energy Resources            hydrocarbons by PS resources                            6/30/98
Development Project         delivery to consumers, enhancing
commercial orientation of public-sector
entities, and GOP regulation/policy-making
Ln.2982-PAK Private         Assist GOP in mobilizing private sector        1988     Ongoing            Implementation of private sector
Sector Energy               financing for energy investments and                                       projects was substantially
Development Projects        develop institutional framework for                                        during FY90-93; Hub Power
Project (PSEDP I)           sustaining private sector investment/                                      delayed during FY90.93; Hub
opeations in the sector                                                      power is now completed. Closing
date extended to December 31,
1999 (To comrspond with
PSEDP-1I)
Ln.3812-PAK Second          To replenish the PSEDF established under       1994     Ongoing            Being implemented.
Private Sector Energy       Ln.2982-PAK for financing private sector
Development Project         investments in energy and infrastructure
(PSEDP-1I)                  projects
14



PAKISTAN: RURAI, ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table-3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date planned                      Date actual/
latest estimates
1 ) Identification                                                December 1987
2) Pre-appraisal                                                   July 1988 & Nov. 88
3) Appraisal Mission                                               June 1989
4) Negotiations                                                    November 9-15.1989
5) Letter of dev. policy                                          Not applicable
6) Board presentation                                              December 19, 1989
7) Signing of the Loan                                      February 2, 1990
8) Loan Effectiveness            May 2, 1990                       November 1, 1990
9) First tranche release         Not applicable                    Not applicable
(if applicable)
10) M[id-term review                    _                         April - May 1994
11) Project completion           June 30, 1995                    June 30, 1997
12) Loan closing                 December 31, 1995                 June 30, 1997
PAKISTAN: RURAI, ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Commutative Estimated and Actual
tUS$ Millions)
1990-91 l 1991-92    1992-93     1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97
Appraisal Estimate    11.6       37.2        86.2      135.6      150        160      160
Actual                   -          -        5.84     28.269    49.12     74.093  110.517
Actual as % of           -                   6.77      20.85    32.75      46.31      69.1
Estimate
Date of Final    Dec. 12, 1997
Disbursement
Amount           US$ 26.00 million
Surrendered
Amount Canceled   US$ 23.77 million
Total            US$ 49.77 million
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates.
15



Rural Electrification Project
(Ln. 3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Sr.                                           _    1989            I 1990  =      1991      |    1992  -         1993  1_ |      1994           1995            1996      1     1997
No.                 Activities                  3 6 8112      912 6 9 121 38 911231 6 9 12369 12 3 6     12 31 691236 9 12
1 Preparation & Evaluation of Bidding
Documents & Award of Contract
Material (60%)________        __*  *l   l l     I I .UE li
2 Material Procurement
3 Engagement of Consultants for3 
3 Detail Engineering                                                                                  I              I                 :                            1
4  Survey, Detail engineering                                              _   _    _          /4                                                   | /     |  | I  I  I  I I
Design B.O.0 & Work Orders               L_II                                                                                    III                 I   I _        J
a%       5 Preparation, Evaluation of Bidding                                                     FE        '
Documents & Award of Contract
for Balance Material (40%)
6 Material Procurement                                                                                                                                 I |
7 Preparation&EvaluationofBidding
documents & engagement
of Contractors                                                                                       l            l    I              k                4 . .
8 Mobilization and Construction
S~~~~~~~~~ - -fT -    -   -   -                                                                                                                   II      
91completion Reports/Evaluation etc.                                                                     i                                             I   I  I  I  I   I  I
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates.                                                                                                                     Planned
Actual U



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table - 6: Key Indications for Project Operation
DESCRIPTION'              1990-91              1991-92              1992-93              1993-94              1994-95               199S-96              1996-97                 Total
Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal   Actual
Estimates            Estimates            Estimates            Estiuates            Estimuates           Estimates             Estimates           Fstimates
Number of Villages           87         0        579        0         1071        0         869      660         294     1016           0      1280          0       556        2900        3512
Electrified
Number of setnelneis         65        0         434        0         803         0         651      361        217      2085           0      1046          0       442        2170        3934
Electrified
Number of Domestic        15416        0      1 0_771       0      190127         0      154157    30819      51389   69204             0    38565            0    12477      513860      151065
Cons
Nunber of Commer.           242        0        1612        0        2982         0        2418      359        806       546           0      480           0        65        8060        1450
Cons
_t  NumberofTubewcUs             353        0        2351        0        4349         0       3527        12       1170       63            0       34           0         3       11750         112
Numberoflhdus.              151        0        1008        0        1864         0        1511       17        506        57           0        17          0         2        5040          93
Cons
NunsberofLVCons           15658        0      104383        0      193109         0      156575    31178      52195    69750            0    39045            0 1  12542      521920      152515
NumberofhfVCons.            504         0       3359        0        6213         0        5038       29        1676      120           0        51           0 |       5 |    16790 |       205 |
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates
Scope of project components financial by the Bank - appraisal estimates and actual achieveniellts.



RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                    Purpose as defined at                    Status                           Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Actuarial Study            Better definition of financing    Initial study was completed in 1991.
requirements for WAPDA's Pension    Follow up study is presently
Scheme                            ongoing
2. Internal Audit Study       To improve WAPDA's internal audit  Study completed                  Contributed toward improving record
functions                                                          keeping and audit functions.
3. Automation of Accounting   To improve WAPDA's accounting     Study completed; Phase 1, including   AFIS provides a key input for the
and Financial Information  information system.               acquisition of computer hardware    corporatization and restructuring of
System                                                       and software, was completed under   WAPDA, by developing accounting systems
(AFIS)                                                       the Project; Phase II is being    for independent cost centers - generating
co                                                                        implemented under PSDP (Loan      stations, transmission and grid, and Area
3764-PAK).                       Boards.
4. Rural Electrification Master   To develop a comprehensive village   Study completed in 1997.   The study is a critical input for a least-cost
Plan                       level data base, including a ranking                                Rural Electrification program.
of villages in terms of benefit cost
ratio.
5. Studies on WAPDA's design   To review WAPDA's selected design  Studies completed in 1991 and 1992.  The studies have provided WAPDA a better
standards etc. for rural   standards (e.g. use of steel lattice                                understanding of Load characteristics etc.,
electrification            poles, transformers sizes etc.) and                                 and would contribute towards more optional
amend the standards in light of load                               specifications of equipment to be installed in
characteristics prevailing in rural                                rural areas.
areas.



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table SA: PROJECT COSTS
RS. MILLION                        US$ MILLION
LC         F/C       TOTAL         LC          F/C       TOTAL
ELECTRIFICATION, ETC.
Material & Equipment            7,012       8,670       15,681      275.70      293.92      569.62
Erection, Land & Overheads       3905        1158        5063       143.15       37.25      180.39
Mobile Equipment                  145          90         235         5.44        3.07        8.15
Custom Duties & Taxes              63           1          65         2.32        0.04        2.36
Consultancy Services                -         375         375            -       12.33       12.33
Total (Contract Cost:          11,125       10,294      21,419      426.61      346.61      772.85
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Mapping of Villages                  -         24          24            -        0.72        0.72
Load Management Studies             7         106          113        0.19        3.11        3.30
Total Contract Cost:                7         130         137         0.19        3.83        4.02
TOTAIL:                        11,132       10,424     21,556       426.80      350.44      776.87
Source: WAPDA
PAKISTAN: RURA1L ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3143-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table 1B: Project Financing
US$ MILLION
1     OECF                                        120.000
2.    IBRD & IDA CREDI1'                          111.494
3.    KUWAIT FUND                                  17.860
4.    EEC GRANT                                    23.040
5.    US AID                                      56.000
6.    GOP RESOURCES                                21.681
350.043
1.    GOP Grant                                   134.76
2.    Customers Contributions                       21.24
3.    WAPDA Internal Cash Generations             270.80
426.80
Total Financing                                    776.843
Source: WAPDA
19



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Lni. 3148-PAK/Cr. 2078-PAK)
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits 1/
Project Cost                                 Project Benefits
Year   Investment   Cost of   O&M   Total Cost  Energy    Price (ps/kWh)   Benefits form     Net
Cost      Supply    Cost                 Sold   paid by Consumers sale of Power  Benefits
l             ~~~~~~(MKWH)    (actual)
1993       151.61         0        0    151.61          0              128          0.00    -151.61
1994       759.84    103.05   121.22    984.11      80.51            140.77       113.33    -870.78
1995       741.62    373.21   121.22   1236.05     266.58            162.56       433.35    -802.70
1996       888.26    636.54   121.22   1646.02     370.08             208.7       772.36    -873.66
1997      1456.85    836.44   121.22   2414.51     410.02             235.1       963.96   -1450.55
1998           0    886.63   121.22   1007.85    434.62               235.1      1021.79      13.94
1999            0    939.82   121.22   1061.04      460.7             235.1      1083.11     22.07
2000            0    996.21   121.22   1117.43     488.34             235.1      1148.09      30.66
2001            0   1055.99   121.22   1177.21     517.64             235.1      1216.97      39.76
2002            0   1119.35   121.22   1240.57      548.7             235.1      1289.99      49.42
2003            0   1186.51   121.22   1307.73     581.62             235.1      1367.39      59.66
2004            0    1257.7  121.22   1378.92      626.52             235.1      1472.95      94.03
2005            0   1333.16   121.22   1454.38     653.51             235.1      1536.40      82.02
2006            0   1413.15   121.22   1534.37     692.72             235.1      1628.58      94.21
2007            0   1497.94   121.22   1619.16     734.28             235.1      1726.29     107.13
2008            0   1587.81   121.22   1709.03     778.34             235.1      1829.88     120.85
2009            0   1683.08   121.22    1804.3    825.04              235.1      1939.67     135.37
2010            0   1784.07   121.22   1905.29     874.54             235.1      2056.04     150.75
2011            0   1891.11   121.22   2012.33     927.02             235.1      2179.42     167.09
2012            0   2004.58   121.22    2125.8    982.64              235.1      2310.19     184.39
2013            0   2124.85   121.22   2246.07    1041.59             235.1      2448.78     202.71
2014            0   2252.35   121.22   2373.57    1104.09             235.1      2595.72     222.15
2015            0   2387.49   121.22   2508.71    1170.34             235.1      2751.47     242.76
2016            0   2530.73   121.22   2651.95    1240.56             235.1      2916.56     264.61
2017            0   2682.58   121.22    2803.8   1314.99              235.1      3091.54     287.74
2018            0   2843.53   121.22   2964.75    1393.89             235.1      3277.04     312.29
2019            0   3014.15   121.22   3135.37    1477.52             235.1      3473.65     338.28
2020            0   3194.99   121.22   3316.21    1566.17             235.1      3682.07     365.86
2021            0   3386.69   121.22   3507.91    1660.14             235.1      3902.99     395.08
2022            0    3589.9  121.22   3711.12    1759.75              235.1      4137.17     426.05
2023            0   3805.29   121.22   3926.51    1865.34             235.1      4385.41     458.90
2024            0   4033.61   121.22   4154.83    1977.26             235.1      4648.54     493.71
2025            0   4275.62   121.22   4396.84    2095.89             235.1      4927.44     530.60
2026            0   4532.16   121.22   4653.38    2221.65             235.1      5223.10     569.72
Total:        3998.18                                                                       2312.49927
Note: 6% Growth Rate
1/   WAPDA's average tariff is used as a proxy for project benefits.
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates               Financial Rate of Return:                     2.04%
20



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln. 3148-PAK/Cr. 2078-PAK)
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits 2/
Project Cost                                 Project Benefits
Year   Investment   Cost of   O&M   Total Cost  Energy         Price/kWh     Benefits form    Net
Cost      Supply    Cost                Sold   (willingness to pay sale of Power  Benefits
__________________  _________  (MKWH)                     basis)
1993        151.61        0        0   151.61          0             302.73         0.00    -151.61
1994        759.84    103.05   121.22   984.11      80.51            302.73       243.72    -740.39
1995        741.62    373.21   121.22  1236.05    266.58             302.73      807.00    -429.05
1996        888.26    636.54   121.22  1646.02    370.08             302.73      1120.32    -525.70
1997       1456.85    836.44   121.22  :2414.51    410.02            302.73      1241.23   -1173.28
1998            0    886.63   121.22  1007.85      434.62            302.73      1315.70    307.85
1999            0    939.82   121.22   1061.04      460.7            302.73      1394.65    333.61
2000            0    996.21   121.22  '1117.43    488.34             302.73      1478.33    360.90
2001            0   1055.99   121.22  '1177.21     517.64            302.73      1567.03    389.82
2002            0   1119.35   121.22  1240.57       548.7            302.73      1661.05    420.48
2003            0   1186.51   121.22  1307.73      581.62            302.73      1760.71    452.98
2004            0    1257.7   121.22   1378.92    626.52             302.73      1896.63    517.71
2005            0   1333.16   121.22   1454.38    653.51             302.73      1978.34    523.96
2006            0   1413.15   121.22   1534.37    692.72             302.73      2097.04    562.67
2007            0   1497.94   121.22   1619.16     734.28            302.73      2222.85    603.69
2008            0   1587.81   121.22   1709.03     778.34            302.73      2356.23    647.20
2009            0   1683.08   121.22   1804.3    825.04              302.73      2497.60    693.30
2010            0   1784.07   121.22   1905.29     874.54            302.73      2647.45    742.16
2011            0   1891.11   121.22  :2012.33    927.02             302.73      2806.32    793.99
2012            0   2004.58   121.22   2125.8    982.64              302.73      2974.70    848.90
2013            0   2124.85   121.22  :2246.07   1041.59             302.73      3153.15    907.08
2014            0   2252.35   121.22  '2373.57    1104.09            302.73      3342.36    968.79
2015            0   2387.49   121.22  :2508.71    1170.34            302.73      3542.91    1034.20
2016            0   2530.73   121.22  2651.95   1240.56              302.73      3755.49    1103.54
2017            0   2682.58   121.22   2803.8   1314.99              302.73      3980.80    1177.00
2018            0   2843.53   121.22  :2964.75    1393.89            302.73     4219.65    1254.90
2019            0   3014.15   121.22  :3135.37   1477.52             302.73     4472.82    1337.45
2020            0   3194.99   121.22  :3316.21    1566.17            302.73     4741.19    1424.98
2021            0   3386.69   121.22  :3507.91    1660.14            302.73      5025.66    1517.75
2022            0    3589.9   121.22  :3711.12   1759.75             302.73      5327.20    1616.08
2023            0   3805.29   121.22  3926.51    1865.34             302.73      5646.85    1720.34
2024            0   4033.61   121.22  4154.83    1977.26             302.73      5985.66    1830.83
2025            0   4275.62   121.22  4396.84   2095.89              302.73     6344.78    1947.94
2026            0   4532.16   121.22  4653.38   2221.65              302.73     6725.49    2072.11
Total:        3998.18                                                                         25092.22
Note: 6% Growth Rate
2/   Appraisal estimate of consumers' willingness to pay (adjusted to FY93 prices) is used as a proxy for project
benefits.
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates                 Economic Rate of Return:                   14.48%
21



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table - 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section          Covenant        Present      Original    Revised      Description of the Covenant                   Comments
Type            Status      fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Loan 3148       4.01-(bXi)      01               CD           -           -            GOP to have accounts of the project including  Original fulfillment date is December 31
Special accounts audited by independent auditors.  each year, audits were generally completed, and
audit reports submitted to the Bank, with 4-5
months delay.
4.03            02               C           07/01/1990               GOP to take necessary measures to enable WAPDA  -
to recover connection charges from agricultural
consumers over economic life of tubewells under
the RE program.
4.01(bXii)      01               CD          12/31/1996               GOP to furnish audit reports on project accounts,   Original fulfillment date is six months
including separate opinion on SOEs.          after close of FY; audits were generally
completed and audit reports submitted to the
Bank with 4-5 months delay.
GOP to cause federal and provincial agencies to  Complied with up to FY96.
settle bills within three months.
4.04            02               C           12/31/1992               GOP to furnish an action plan to enable WAPDA    Government has provided loans and
to enhance recovery of cost of RE.           not grants to WAPDA for RE operations.
Credit -2078    Schedule 1       05              C           06/30/1990                WAPDA to employ consultants to carry out an  Actuarial study was completed by WAPDA in
Sec. H(b)                                                             actuarial study for WAPDA.                    1991, and recommendations were implemented
Another Study is currently in progress.
Schedule 2, 2.(d) 01            C            06/30/1990               WAPDA to furnish recommendations of internal
audit study and proposed action plan.
Schedule 2, 2.(e) 01            NC                                    WAPDA to review arrangements for setting aside   Original fulfillment date is June 30, each year
amount in a sinking fund for retiring bond issued    Non-compliance due to severe cash flow
in FY88 and FY89.                            situation in WAPDA. Covenant removed
within GBHP.(Loan 3965 - PAK)
Schedule 2, 2.(b) 02            C                                     WAPDA to review security deposit rates and adjust Original fulfillment date is June 30 each year.
them to reflect the ensuing year's average   Further review is being carried out.
billing for all consumer categories.



Agreement       Section         Covenant         Present     Original    Revised      Description of the Covenant                   Comments
ype             Status      fulfillment  fulfillmeni
date        date
Loan 3148       4.02(a)         02               CP                                   WAPDA to finance 4a% of average annual capital  Complied with upto FY96; not complied in
expenditures from intemal sources.           FY97
4.03(a)         02              CP                                   WAPDA to maintain 1.5 times debt service coverage Complied with in FY96. Not complied
ratio.                                       with in FY97.
4.03(bXi)       01              C                                    WAPDA to have its accounts and financial
statements audited by independent auditors.
Credit 2078     Schedule 2, L .(a)  10           C                                    WAPDA to issue bidding documents for meters
provided under Part A.6 of the Project.
Schedule 2,     01              CD           07/01/1990              WAPDA to initiate separation of RE accounts from   Separation completed in FY92, and
2.(aXi)                                                              overall Power Wing accounts.                 independent accounts maintained from FY93
onwards
Schedule 1      01,05           C            01/01/1992              WAPDA to employ consultants to design automated Phase I completed PhaLe n    on gess  n,der
Sec.1l(a)                                                            accounting and financial information systems.  PSDP.(Loan 3764 - PAK)
Schedule 2, 1 .(d) 10           C            09/30/1990              WAPDA to furnish timetable for mapping of (i)    Four contracts were approved by WAPDA
w                                                                                  power feeder lines; (i) unsurveyed villages and  and USAID on April 13, 1991; mapping of
settlements.                                 major portion of distribution network was
completed
Schedule 2, l.(d) 05            C            09/30/1990              WAPDA to appoint consultants to complete the RE  Study completed in 1997; supplemental
Master Plan by December 31, 1993.            funding was provided by the Bank
Schedule 1      10              NC           12/31/1990              WAPDA to initiate mapping of villages and             Mapping exercise was to be carried out
under
Sec. IL(c)                                                           settlements which are yet unmapped.          OECF and USAID funding. however, mapping
of villages was not carried out
Schedule 2, L.(i)  10           CD           12/31/1990              WAPDA to complete a study to assess advantages   Complied with in FY93.
of employing 15 KVA distribution transformers.
Schedule 2, 2.(c) 02            C            12/31/1990              WAPDA to cary out an aging analysis of its
accounts receivable.
Schedule2,2.(g)  05             C            12/31/1990   12/31/1991   WAPDAtoimplementaplanofactionfor
reorganization of its finance function.
Loan-3148       4.01(bXii)      01              CD                                   WAPDA to furnish certified copies of audited  Audit teport were generally submitted 4-5.
financial statements and audit reports.      months after the due date - Dec. 31, each year



Agreement       Section         Covenant         Present     Original    Revised      Description of the Covenant                   Comments
Type            Status      fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Credit-2078     Schedule
Sec. l(b)       05              C            03/31/1991              Consultants to complete actuarial study of WAPDA  --
Loan-3148       4.02(b)         02               C           12/31/1996               WAPDA to furnish copy of review whether it would Original fulfillment date is April 15, each
meet ICG covenant.                           year. Annual review was carried out by the
Bank.
Credit-2078     Schedule 2,     05               C           10/31/1991               WAPDA to fumish recommendations of actuarial
2.(fXiXA)                                                            Study.
Schedule 2,     01, 05          C           09/30/1992               WAPDA to implement recommendations of the study Design of automated systems completed.
2.(fXiiXB)                                                           to automate WAPDA's accountilg and financial    Procurement of computer hardware by
information systems.                         WAPDA has been completed. Phase 1 under
PSDP (Loan 3764 - PAK) is in progress.
Credit-2078     Schedule 1,     10              CD           12/31/1993              WAPDA to submit the Rural Electrification Master Study completed in FY97
Sec. 11(d), L(d)                                                     Plan.
Schedule 1      10              NC           12/31/1993              WAPDA to complete the mapping of umnapped    Mapping of villages and settlements was
Sec.11(c)                                                            villages and settlements.                    not carried out
Schedule 2, 1.(c)  12           C           06/30/1991               WAPDA to review with the Bank results of pilot    Due to delay in pilot program, it was agreed
program for load management of Private Tubewell  with WAPDA to proceed with implementation
Development Project (Cr. 2004-PAK).          of load management measures for 10,000
tubewells.
Schedule 2, 2.(c) 01, 02        NC          06/30/1991               WAPDA to adjust accounts receivable on its
balance sheet to reflect only those receivables
overdue for under three years and determined
to be collectible.
Schedule 2, 2.(d) 05            C           06/30/1991               WAPDA to implement recommendations of intemal -
audit study.
Schedule 2,     05              C           06/30/1991               WAPDA to implement recommendations of actuarial
2.(fXiiXA)                                                           study.
Schedule 2,     01,05           CD          07/01/1991               WAPDA to maintain separate accounts for RE   Separation of accounts completed in FY93
2.(aXii)                                                             including preparation of financial statements
starting from FY92.
Schedule 1,     01,05           C           09/30/1991               Consultants to complete a study to design    Phase I has been completed. Phase II is being
Sec. 1l(a)                                                           automated accounting and financial information  carried out under PSDP (Loan 3764-PAK).



Agreement       Section         Covenant        Present     Original    Revised      Description of the Covenant                  Comments
Type            status      fulfillment  fulfillment
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   - date  date
systems.
Schedule 2,     05              C           08/31/1992              WAPDA to fumish final list of villages
2.(fXiXB)                                                           electrified during FY92.
Schedule 2,     05              CD          09/30/1993              WAPDA to submit proposals regarding equipment to Required tariffs notified. Meters procured
l (cXii)                                                            be used to restrict operations of tubewells.  and GOP's directives issued for metering
tubewells.
Schedule 2,     05              CD          09/30/1993              WAPDA to submit an action plan for installing such -
1 .(cXii)                                                           equipment beginning for January 31, 1993.
Schedule 2, 1(k)  05            C           12/31/1991              WAPDA to design and test light, pre-stressed  -
concrete poles which are more suitable for
conductors of a size not greater than 100 sq. mm.
Schedule 2,     01,05           C           09/30/1992              WAPDA to implement recommendations of the    Phase I is completed; Phase 11 is in progress
- 2 (fXiiXB)                                                        study to automate WAPDA's accounting and     under PSDP(Loan 3764-PAK).
financial information systems.
y Key:
Covenant type:                                                                     Status:
L= Accounts/audit complied with                                                    C  = Covenant complied with
2 = Fin performance/rev gen from beneficiaries                                     CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow & util. of project                                                        CP = Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                                                            NC = Not complied with
5 = Mgmt aspects of proj/executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Proj implementation not covered by 1-9
11 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral budget/allocs
12 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral policy regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Source: ICR/mission



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-]?AK)
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All Bank Policies complied with
PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Actual Weeks
project cycle
1. Through appraisal                              62.2
2. Appraisal - Board                              76.1
3. Supervision                                   130.4
4. ICR                                             1.7
Total                          270.4
26



PAKISTAN: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Ratings
Stage of     Month/  Days in  Specialized staff skills   Implementation    Development                       Types of Problems
Project cycle   y         Field       represented            Progress        Objectives
Identification  12/87              E, E, C                n.a.              n.a.            n.a.
Preparation - 1   07/88            E                      n.a.              n.a.            n.a.
Preparation - 2   11/88            E, C                   i.a.              n.a.            n.a.
Pre-appraisal    01-02/88          E, E, FA               n.a.              n.a.            n.a.
Appraisal       06/89              Ec, E, E, FA, FA C. C   n.a.             n.a.            n.a.
C..   o.2.,.. - I   Wl iflfv  IV  F.A, rE, rF 
Supervision - 2   04-05/91  29     E, FA, E, Ec           2
Supervision - 3   07/91   20       E, FA, FA, Ec, Ec, C    2
Supervision - 4   6/92    14       E. E,, FA              3                 2
!J Supervision - 5   02-03/93  24     E, Ec, Ec              2
Supervision - 6   06/93   22       E, FA, Ec, Ec          3                 3               Financial covenants not likely to be met; implementation delays on
I________                                                          all components, particularly on TA component.
Supervision - 7   11/93   16       E, Ec, Ec              2                 2
Supervision - 8   04-05/94  17     E, Ec                  2                 2
Supervision - 9   03-04/95  19     E, FA, Ec              S                 S
Supervision - 10  01/96   17       E, FA, Ec              S                 S
Supervision - 11  04/96   16       E, FA, Ec              U                 U               Implementation delays particularly on Load Management
component; provision of consumer connections well below appraisal
_target; Loan/Credit not likely to be fully utilized by Closing Date.
Supervision - 12  12/96   12       E, FA, Ec              U                 U               Provision of consumer connections still below appraisal target;
Loan/Credit funds not likely to be fully utilized.
Supervision - 13  05/97   20       E, FA, Ec              U                 U               US$ 26 m. canceled; further cancellation envisaged; pace of
______________  consumer connections has improved but remains below targets.
Key:
C      : Consultant
E      : Engineer
EC     : Economist
FA     : Financial Analyst



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Mission's Aide-Memoire
(with Operational Plan)
28



Rural Electrification Proiect
Loan 3148-PAK/Credit 2078-PAK
Implementation Completion Report
Aside Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs Rashid Aziz (Bank Staff), Shahid Sattar and
Shahid Hafeez (Consultants) visited WAPDA during November I-December 15, 1997, to initiate
the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above Project. The
Closing Date for the Bank Loan/Credit was June 30, 1997. This aide memoire presents the
mission's findings and recommendations, which would be confirmed through a post mission letter
from the Bank's management. The mission would like to record its appreciation for the
courtesies and cooperation extended by WAPDA during the mission.
2.    The mission's objectives were to: (a) explain to the concerned officials the process for the
preparation of the ICR; (b) review the background information on the Project (including Bank
and Borrower records, the appraisal report, supervision reports etc.); (c) compile the data
required for the Statistical Tables and any other sector specific data to be annexed to the ICR;
(d) assess implementation experience, overall and in comparison with appraisal estimates, as
regards project costs and benefits, financing plan, procurement and disbursements, performance
of consultants, suppliers, contractors, the E,ank, the Borrower and WAPDA; (e) review the status
of compliance with Legal covenants/agreements; (f) prepare the ICR mission's aide memoire
(including the Operational Plan - to be cdiscussed and agreed with WAPDA), and initiate the
preparation of the ICR; and (g) agree on a timetable for WAPDA to prepare its contribution to
the ICR, which would be annexed to the final report.
3.    The ICR is an assessment of the experience gained under the Project, as regards design
and preparation; implementation, and operation of the assets created; the Project's developmental
impact and sustainability of the investments; and Borrower and Bank performance. Lessons learnt
during the this process provide inputs for the preparation of future Borrower and Bank projects.
4.    The mission agreed with WAPDA that the target date for preparing the first draft of the
ICR would be end-January 1998. The Chief Engineer (R.E.) will provide coordination for the
preparation of the Report within WAPDA, liaise with the Bank. and be responsible for the
preparation of WAPDA's contribution to the ICR.
A.    Project appraisal
5.    Proiect Obiectives: The objectives of the Project were to assist GOP to: (a) improve
rural productivity and quality of life for its rural population; (b) rationalize investments for rural
electrification; (c) establish a long-term framework for extension of the rural electric distribution
network at least-cost; (d) improve reliabilit:y and quality of service and reduce losses in the rural
electric distribution network; and (e) minimize electric generating capacity shortfalls through
better load management.
29



6.    Proiect Description: The project as appraised by the Bank covered GOP's 6 years (FY
89-95) Core Investment Program (CIP) for RE and consisted of the following:
Part - A     Infrastructure Development
a.    Extension of electricity supply to new villages and settlements.
b.    Connection to the established power grid of settlements in close proximity to
villages which have already been electrified.
c.    Expanding consumer connections in villages and settlements which have already
been partially electrified.
d.    Reinforcement and rehabilitation of the existing rural electric distribution network.
e.    Extension of electricity supply to approximately 27,000 tubewells.
f     Installation of. (i) load management devices for controlling the load of
approximately 27,000 tubewells; and (ii) approximately 300 meters to introduce peak/off-
peak pricing of electricity.
Part - B    Technical Assistance. This would provide for:
a.    mapping of all villages and settlements in the country;
b.   installing load management schemes; and
c.    consultancy services to
(i) produce an actuarial report on WAPDA; and (ii) automate WAPDA's
accounting and financial information systems.
7.    Proiect Costs: The total cost of the Project, including physical and price contingencies,
was estimated at about US$ 662 million equivalent, of which taxes and duties were about US$
136 million. The total financing required for the Project, including interest during construction of
about US$ 54 million equivalent, was US$ 715 million. Of the total financing required about US$
325 million was in foreign exchange and about US$ 390 million equivalent was in local costs.
8.    Proiect Financinz: A Bank loan of US$123 million and IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million
(US$ 37 million equivalent) was made available to GOP and onlent to WAPDA at 11% per
annum repayable under the same terms as the Bank Loan. G3OP would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The Bank Loan/Credit was expected to cover about 43% of foreign exchange costs and 5%
of local costs.
9.    Proiect Preparation and Villaie Selection Criiteria: In preparing the Project for
appraisal by the World Bank, WAPDA prepared a preliminary list of about 4,000 candidate
villages for electrification. A comparable list was also prepared for OECF. These lists contained
information regarding the name, location (Province, District, AEB, and Tehsil) and population of
each village, but did not contain the distance of the villages from the existing medium voltage
(MV) grid. These lists were to be used to select the villages that would be electrified during the
first two years of project implementation.
10.   The criteria for selection of villages which were to be electrified under GOP's RE program
was reviewed in details between GOP, WAPDA, the Bank, OECF and USAID in order to
develop, in the absence of a Rural Electrification Master Plan (REMP), interim criteria for the
30



electrification of villages which recognized large provincial disparities regarding population
density, area and morphology of terrain, income distribution, etc.
11.   Based on these reviews, the criteria formulated by WAPDA were modified. In view of the
then prevailing resource constraints which reinforced the need for more efficient utilization and
better targeting of the available resources, WAPDA agreed to select for electrification under the
proposed Project in a given year, only those villages which had an overall country-wide ratio a/K)
of inhabitants (I) to distance in kilometers l(K) from the MV grid of not Less than 24 and which
satisfied the following additional criteria: (i) for villages in the Provinces of Punjab and Sind, each
village shall have a population of not Less than 200 inhabitants and shall not be more than 6
kilometers from the MV grid; and (ii) for villages in the North West Frontier Province, each
village shall not be more than 20 kilometers from the MV grid and all such villages shall have an
overall province-wide (I/K) ratio of not less than 24. In addition, any settlement would be eligible
for electrification under the Project if it hacl not Less than 200 inhabitants and was not more than
one (1) kilometer away from the MV grid.
12.   Design and Engineering:. The distribution equipment and materials used by WAPDA
and the typical construction designs of distribution facilities were standardized. However,
WAPDA had been using steel lattice poles in all its distribution networks. These costed about
33% more than heavy pre-stressed concrete poles and about 44% more than lighter concrete
poles. Furthermore, the capacity of the smallest standard distribution transformer was 25 KVA
which was used for as little as only 9 KVA demand of tubewell motors. To reduce the cost of
constructing distribution systems, WAPDA agreed to implement the Project by undertaking, as
part of the IP, the following: (i) limit the use of steel lattice poles to areas which were unsuitable
for concrete poles; (ii) design and test, not later than December 31, 1991, light pre-stressed
concrete poles which were more suitable for conductors of a size not greater than 100 square
millimeters; (iii) complete a study not later than December 31, 1990 to assess the advantages of
employing 15 kVA distribution transformers and furnish the findings and recommendations of the
study to the Bank for review; and (iv) employ 33-kV primary distribution voltage in sparsely
popullated areas.
13.   Proiect Implementation: The implementation program for the project envisaged that
WAPDA would:
a.    Prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, not later than September 30, 1990, a
timetable for completing t:he mapping of electric power feeder lines and of
unsurveyed villages and settlements in the country;
b.    Issue by July 1, 1990, bidding documents for 300 meters for peak/off peak pricing;
review by June 30, 1991, the result of the pilot program for load management; and
submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1991, its recommendations on the equipment
to be employed to restrict the operations of tubewells, and an action plan for
installaing such equipment, beginning January 31, 1993;
c.    Select for electrification under the Project, in a given year, only those villages
which met the agreed criteria;
d.    Select villages for electrification in FY91 and FY92 from the preliminary lists
31



submitted to the Bank in May 1989 and furnish to the Bank the final list of villages
electrified, by October 31, 1991 and 1992; prepare lists of villages to be
considered for electrification after FY92 and submit them to the Bank for review
and comment not later than March 31 of each year; and furnish to the Bank not
later than October 31 of each year, the final list of villages electrified.
B.    Project Implementation and Completion Status.
14.   Implementation of the Project proved to be a major challenge for WAPDA as well as the
Bank, and overall experience under the Project cannot be termed as satisfactory. The Project was
rated as a Problem Project (indicating unsatisfactory Implementation Performance) by the Bank
twice -- in FY93, and from mid-1996 till closing. A more detailed assessment of the reasons for
this outcome will be presented in the ICR; however, based on the information available to the
mission, the following main issues appear to have adversely affected project implementation:
a.    WAPDA's overall management of the Project was weak, particularly in the initial years --
e.g. a full time Project Director (PD), in charge solely of the Rural Electrification program and
responsible for coordinating all activities under the program, was not appointed till about three
years after the start of the Project; and monitoring results on the ground, particularly the progress
achieved in installing consumer connections in electrified villages, was not rigorously pursued;
b.    Frequent transfers and postings by WAPDA (including the PD) and the resulting lack of
continuity of staff, contributed to delays in decision making, as well as actions;
c.    Project activities were spread across many WAPDA. departments -- e.g. the Area Boards
(for physical implementation), Procurement (equipment contracts), the PD's Office (consultant
services and works contracts), Finance (Financial Management Improvement Program, including
the automation of Accounting and Financial Information Systems), etc. -- and procedures for
effectively coordinating these diverse activities were not developed in a timely manner; and
d.    Furthermore according to GOP policy, the identification of villages to be electrified was to
be done by the federal and provincial legislators. This led to substantial delays, particularly in the
initial years, in finalizing the lists of villages to be electrified, since it entailed a long process of
identification by legislators, review by GOP, and then verification by WAPDA of the villages that
actually met the Bank or other donor criteria.
15.   To be fair, not all of the above problems should be attributed to WAPDA alone, since the
Project was initiated by WAPDA and the Bank without full agreement on all of the preparatory
activities, which could have assisted in overcoming some of the implementation problems. This is
particularly true for the procedures for coordination and monitoring by WAPDA, which, as
indicated above, were not developed or agreed to, during the Bank's appraisal of the Project.
16.   Project Revision: The project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1995, however,
because of delays in the selection of contractors, suppliers and consultants, disbursement
commenced from the last quarter of 1992. The completion date was extended to June 30, 1997.
The installation of load management devices were revised from 27,000 to 10,000. An additional
1000 Time-of-Day (TOD) meters were also procured under the project.
32



17.   Status of Proiect Imnlementation  The loan was closed on June 30, 1997 but physical
work is still in progress, especially the installation of load management devices and TOD meters.
18.   Activities ComLleted: The following physical progress was achieved until June 30, 1997
under the Bank's loan:
a.           Villages Electrified
Province                  Scope               Revised Scone       Achievement
Punjab                    2672                       3191               3119
Sindh                     1049                       1445               2908
N.W.F.P                    849                       1202                1110
Baluchistan                500                       430                 309
TOTAL        5070                       6268               7446
b.           New Connections
SCOPE              ACTUAL
500,000            152,720
C.           Load Management (Ripple Control) Devices
Original Scope     Revised Scope       Procured      Installed
Devices:
27,000             10.000              10,000       127
Base Units:
12                 24                  24           7
d.           Time of Day Meters (TOD)
Original Scope    Revised Scope   Procured        Installed      TOD Tariff
Applied
300            1,300           1,279            279              7
Since June 1997 about 20 more customers have opted for TOD tariffs, including Ittefaq
Chemicals who are WAPDA's largest consumer. This is encouraging.
19.   Reasons for Delav: According to WAPDA, the procurement methodology was not
clearly identified at appraisal, and consequently bidding documents took inordinately long to
prepare, leading to a 2 year delay in project implementation. Lengthy approval procedures were
adopted both by WAPDA and the Bank. A review of procurement records revealed that
WAPDA on average took 6 months to cornplete and submit a bid evaluation report to the Bank
(68 cases reviewed); and the Bank took an average of 2.9 months to clear the evaluation reports.
WAPDA also informed the mission that implementation was delayed in part because the Bank
changed its disbursement procedures during implementation. While the mission is not in a
position to comment on any changes in Bank disbursement procedures, the instances quoted by
WAPDA relate mainly to the enforcement of Bank's guidelines, which WAPDA was aware of,
since these were agreed with WAPDA during appraisal and negotiations.
C.    Financial Management Improvement Programme
33



20.   AFIS - I: WAPDA selected M/s ESBI International, an Irish Consulting Company to help
WAPDA to achieve the first phase of automation of WAPDA's accounting and financial functions
(AFIS-I). The assignment was expected to be completed by July, 1994 but was delayed until July
1995. The following modules were developed:
i.    Accounts Consolidation: The trial balances produced manually at WAPDA
Headquarters are consolidated, along with the preparation of all financial reports;
ii.    Pilot Accountin! Module: This module prepares trial balances of Basic
Accounting Units (one hydel and one thermal power station, and one GSC).
While AFIS I was implemented and funded through the project, AFIS II is being funded through
the Power Sector Development Project Loan 3764-PAK. There is lack of agreement between the
Bank and WAPDA on the manner in which this should be implemented. WAPDA wants to
implement AFIS II by using its in house capabilities, and to curtail the scope of activities; the
Banks position remains that WAPDA should hire consultants to complete the exercise in total.
21.   Financial Management Improvement Plan  The main components of the FMIP were
implemented by WAPDA, though with delays in the implementation of some components. A
detailed review of the status of individual components of the FMIP will be presented in the ICR.
8.    Proiect Costs and Financin: Based on preliminary estimates prepared by the mission,
with the assistance of WAPDA, total Project Costs were as follows:
RS. MILLION         USS MILLION
L/C      F/C      TOTAL          L/C      F/C      TOTAL
ELECTRIFICATION ETC.
Material & Equipment      7,012    8,670     15,681         275.70   293.92   569.62
Erection, Land & Overh    3,905     1,158    5,063          143.15   37.25    180.39
Mobile Equipment          145      90        235            5.44     3.07    8.51
Custom Duties and Taxes   63       1         65             2.32     0.04    2.36
Consultancy Services      -        375       375            -        12.33    12.33
Total Contract Cost       11,126   10,294    21,420         426.61   346.60   773.22
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Mapping of Villages       -        24        24             -        0.72    0.72
Load Management Studies   7        106       112            0.19     3.11    3.30
Total Contract Cost       7        130       137            0.19     3.83    4.02
TOTAL                     11.132   10,424   21.556          426.80   350.43   777.24
These cost estimates, as well as the financing plan, will be confirmed with WAPDA, and the final
numbers included in the ICR
29.   Project accounts in the format required for evaluation of the project were not available as
WAPDA's Annual Reports do not separately report on this project. The above information was
thus prepared specifically for the ICR by the mission with the assistance of WAPDA.
34



10.   Ooerational Plan: The mission discussed with WAPDA  a plan for the operation and
maintenance of the assets procured/installed under the project. A draft of the operational plan that
was discussed with WAPDA is attached as Annex 1.
115.  Disbursements: Out of the total funds available (US$ 164.5 million -- the variation from
the original US$ 160 Million is due to the Credit being denominated in SDR's) under the Loan
and Credit, US$ 114.7 million have been utilized and a total of US$ 49.8 million was canceled.
Of this amount, US$ 26 million was canceled during the first half of 1997 at the request of GOP;
and the balance (US$ 23.48 million from thLe Loan, and SDR 0.21 million from the Credit) was
canceled by the Bank after processing all withdrawal applications received by October 31, 1997.
It is estimated that the installation of the remaining TOD meters, ripple control devices and
enhancing the number of connections would require approx. US$ 25 Million which WAPDA
would have to raise from its own sources.
12.   Client Evaluation: As per Bank guidelines, WAPDA has to prepare its own evaluation of
the project which would be appended to the ICR. It was agreed that WAPDA would submit its
formal evaluation by January 20, 1998.
D.    CONCLUSIONS
13.   Compliance With Covenants:
Covenant                                    Status
i) Village Selection Criteria                        Complied
ii) Financial Covenants.
a) Sound accounting records.                   Complied
b) External Audit                              Complied
c) 40% ICG                          | Substantially complied with till 1996 and
d) Debt Service Coverage oi, 1.5          there after not complied with.
times.
In fairness to WAPDA, tariff increases are approved by GOP, and WAPDA has been requesting
the Government since early 1997 for tariff increases, so as to comply with covenants agreed with
the Bank. However, the Government has not approved tariff increases since February 1997, and
this delay in tariff increases is the main factor accounting for the non-compliance with financial
covenants during FY97 and (based on projected accounts only) for subsequent years.
14.   Achievement of Proiect Goals: Due to delays in startup, strict enforcement of the Bank's
procurement procedures, evolving Bank formats for bidding documents, delay in effectiveness of
the loan to November 1990 and weak project management by WAPDA, the project was extended
by 18 months. Even then, the major objective -- of providing new 500,000 connections in rural
areas and installing load management devices -- was not fully met.
15.   In order to derive the desired benefits of the project WAPDA should:
a.    Ensure that the operation and maintenance requirements (technical, financial and
personnel) are adequately catered for in the annual budgets; and continually upgrade the
35



capabilities of its operations staff, through formal and on-the job-training programs;
b.    Institute more rigorous and timely mechanisms for monitoring the operation of the
rural network (including the development of performance criteria), load management
devices and tariff, including periodic review by WAPDA management;
c.    Strengthen revenue collection and meter reading systems by devising a strategy to
ensure accurate and timely reading, billing, and collection of dues from rural consumers;
intensively propagate the benefits of the TOD tariff and install on a fast-track basis the
1000 meters currently available in stock; and evolve a strategy for effective utilization of
the load management (ripple control) devices that were procured under the Project.
e.    In view of the improvement in availability of financial (cost and expenditure)
information that it is likely to generate, the completion of the automation of financial and
accounting systems for WAPDA should be accorded a high priority.
36



Annex A
PAKISTAN - RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Loan 3148-PAK/Credit 2078-PAK
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
OPERATIONAL PLAN
ITEM          PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                                   TARGET DATE
Project Construction  1. 7446 villages have been electrified up to  1. WAPDA to include required funding for  Annually; including
Completion              June 30. 97. WAPDA/GOP  have  to            completing the remaining activities       FY98.
provide  funds  for  completing  the       (installation of equipment) in its investment
installation of equipment procured under   program.
the project.
2. Only 152,720 connections were provided  2. WAPDA has to devise a marketing strategy   To develop strategy by
in electrified villages, as compared to the  to improve the rate of consumer connections  Jan 31, 98; MD (Dist)
planned 500,000.                            in electrified villages.                 to monitor.
3. Load Management Devices.                3.
a) 279 TOD meters installed out of 1279  a) -   WAPDA  to  prepare  timetable for by Jan 31, 98
available; only 7 customers had opted for   installing  remaining  1000 TOD  meters
TOD tariff by 30 June 1997.                procured through the Bank Loan.
- WAPDA to review TOD tariff, and revise  by March 31, 98.
it if needed, in order to make it more
attractive for bulk consumers to opt for TOD
tariff.
by Jan 31, 98
b) Only 127 ripple control devices installed  b) WAPDA to prepare proposal for optimal use
out of 10,000 procured.                     of ripple control devices, and submit it to the
Bank for review.



ITEM              PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                      TARGET DATE
PLANS
Project Operation  1. WAPDA makes budgetary allocations for  1. WAPDA to ensure adequate finding for   Annually; CE (RE) to monitor
WAPDA                meeting  operations  and  maintenance       O&M  of RE network; develop stringent  on monthly basis; GM (Ops) to
(O&M) requirements of the RE network.      criteria for assessing O&M  requirements  monitor every quarter.
(based on asset values); and to expedite
releases of O&M funds to AEBs.
2. Transformer sizes and other specifications  2. WAPDA needs to monitor the rural     CE (RE) and AEBs to review
have been standardized by WAPDA; such      network periodically, in particular the    every month; GM  (Ops) to
specifications need to be periodically     actual loads in about 500 villages semi    monitor every six months.
reviewed  in  light of actual system       annually, and replace lightly loaded or
co                                 performance.                               overloaded transformers with more
appropriate sized transformers.
3. WAPDA needs to strengthen its customer  3. WAPDA    to   consider   recruiting  Proposal to be submitted to
services and/or marketing functions, so as  professionals/experts, for developing and  Chairman. WAPDA for review
to more effectively diskeminate benefits of  implementing strategies to: increase rural  by March 31, 98.
load  management programs, expedite        connections; promote the adoption of load
consumer connections etc.                  management schemes, etc.
4. WAPDA  is unable to implement RE  4. WAPDA and GOP need to evaluate the  Proposal to be prepared as part
programs since it is unable to recover its  full cost to WAPDA of the RE program,  of PC-I of Rural Electrification
full costs.  Since RE program  reflects    and develop mechanisms to compensate  during Ninth Five Year Plan
GOP's social objectives, GOP  should       WAPDA for such costs. WAPDA should  (FY99-2003) -- WAPDA to
provide adequate resources to WAPDA        prepare  a  strategy  paper, for GOP  prepare strategy paper by
for RE investments.                        consideration, on how it could recover the  March 31, 98.
full costs of RE from consumers.



ITEM       PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS                PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                           TARGET DATE
Project        1. Rural customers complain about irregular meter  1. WAPDA to reassess the meter reading and billing  By March 31, 98.
Operation         reading, billing and practical difficulty in   systems to devise strategy for timely meter
Institutional     payment of bills.                              reading, billing and collection from the villages.
arrangement
2. The project contributes to  improving the  2. WAPDA has to periodically monitor the increase  CE (RE) and AEBs to
standard of living in rural areas; however, full    in number of consumers connected, and to modify  review pace of additional
benefits are not achieved, given low levels of  infill strategy as required.                connections       every
consumer connections.                                                                       quarter.
3. The load management components will improve  3. WAPDA should periodically readjust the TOD  Quarterly  Review; CE
the  efficiency  of  service  by  increasing  tariff if required, in order enhance (over time) the  (RE) to coordinate with
generation in off peak hours and ruducinig    recepti vity of thc program by bk consmers.   Finance    and   nther
consumption in peak hours.                                                                  Departments, as needed.
4. WAPDA and GOP have invested substantial 4. Managing Director (Dist) to periodically monitor.  Six Monthly Review
funds in RE programs in recent years. There is    a) The addition of new connections.
a need for senior WAPDA management to             b) Installation of load management devices.
periodically review the experience in achieving   c) Marketing results of revised TOD tariffs.
the objectives for which these investments have   d) Assess the adequacy of WAPDA's design
been undertaken, and to devise corrective             specifications etc., based on the actual
actions for ensuring the optimal/full utilization     load for 500 villages.
of these assets.
5. Given WAPDA's severe financial constraints, 5. Chairman WAPDA to monitor availability of Annual   review    by
WAPDA needs to ensure that its investments in  resources for RE program, and ensure that scope  Chairman, as part. of
RE will not adversely affect WAPDA's overall   of the program  is consistent with  resources  preparation of next year's
financial viability.                           available for such investments.              budget proposals.



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Ln.3148-PAK/Cr.2078-PAK)
Borrower's Evaluation
WAPDA has prepared its own ICR. The text attached in this Appendix includes only the covering
letter and the main text from that report. The full text of WAPDA's ICR is available in Project files.
40



PAKISTAN
WA TER ANi D) P0WER DEVELOPMERTA U7AHORrF
Office of the
Chief Engineer (RE) Wapda
LDA Plaza, Lahore.
No.  3        ;2b- S2/CE/RE/D(RE-1)                      Dated: June.-37,I/1998.
Mr. Rashid Aziz
Energy Specialist.
20-A. Shahrah-e-Jamhuriat,
Rarnna 5/1.
ISLAMAAD,
SUBJECT:-  DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) -
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT UNDER IBRD LOAN
NO.3148/PAK & IDA CREDIT NO.2078/PAK.
Ref:-        Your letter dated 15.06.1998.
You would appreciate that we had supplied the I.C.R. of the subject Project
vide this office letter No.5166-77 dated 24.01.1998. During your visit to WAPDA on
May 20/21, 1998, it was agreed to review and reduce the volume of the said Report.
A copy of WAPDA's contribution to ICR duly reviewed by General %lanaaer(PE&S)
WAPDA under the instructions of M.D(Dist:) is sent herewith for your perusal and
further necessary action. Two No. Floppy Disks containing R.E.M.P Data base are
also been supplied through Mr. Ali Ahmed AB & AO of this office.
The figure of 1.2 Million domestic connection appearing under Project
description on Page-2 of Bank's Draft I.C.R. may please be corrected as 0.5 Million.
DA/As above.                                                          R(RE)
'<f6
c. c to:-
1-     M.D(Dist.)Wapda,Wapda House,Lahore.
2-    G.M(Opr)Wapda,Wapda House,Lahore.
3-    G.M(PE&S)Wapda.Wapda House,Lahore.
4-    G.M(P&IC)Wapda,Wapda House,Lahore.
5-    G.M(Coord:)Wapda,Wapda House,Lahore.
6-    G.M(Corporate Finance)Wapda,Wapda House,Lah
7-    G.M(Planning)Wapda,Wapda House,Lahore.
41



3.     PART-I Project Implementation Assessment
3.1    Proiect Identitv.
Project Name:               Rural Electrification Project
Loan No.                     IBRD Loan No.3148/PAK & IDA
Credit No.2078/PAK.
Loan Amount &               US$ 160 Million
Date                        01.11.1990
RVP Unit:                   South Asia Region
Countrn:                    Pakistan
Sector/Sub/Sector:           Energy Power
3.2    Back'szround
3 2.1. Thc Watcr and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) was establishcd as a semi-
autonomous bodv in 1958 to coordinate the development of Pak-istan's Watcr and Power
rcsources. WAPDA. as' used in this report. refers exclusivcly to the planning. conistruction and
operation of power facilities.
3.2.2.  In 1958. vhen WAPDA was cstablished. only about 609 villaoes and settlements in the
Countnv had access to electricity from the grid. Since thein, \WAPDA has been undertaking
annual programs for Rural Elcctrification. and by FY 89 had provided electricity to about 37%
of the 45.000 villages and 32% of the 80.000 settlements in the Country.
3.).3.  In'response to the priority accorded by GOP. the pace of Rural Electrification was
accelerated bv WAPDA. Although the number of villages and settlements connected on an
average annual basis was increased from about 400 between FY 60 and FY 79 to about 1.8000
between FY 80 and FY 89. the targets of the Fifth and Sixth Plan, were not fully achieved for
the reasons: First, the extension of the Rural network was carried out in the absence of a Rural
Electrification Master Plan (REMP) as a result villages wvere selected on criteria other than
42



those requircd to achieve the targets at Icast cost. Second. as WAPDA's power and water \\cre
both involvcd in the expansion and distribution network thc fnormer for thc suppli of electricity
to villages including tubc wells and thc lattcr for irrigation pumping, and therc was minimal co-
ordination between the twvo wings, high and llow priority lines wvere implemented concurrently.
Third. the targets of thc Rural Electrification programms were ambitious relative to the
availability of resources and as a rcsult there were substantial supplies in implemcntation. in
that service was provided to less that 50% of the potential consumers. Finally, as thc Rural
Electrification and irrigation pumping program were not fully coordinated with thc expansion
of generating capacity. whose commissionirng vas also delayed due to resource constraints.
extensive load-shedding was experienced ancl some completed lines were not energized. Thesc
shortcomings. unless addressed in a systernatic fashion. vould further erode the quality of
scrvices and reliability of supply. particularly in view of the envisaged expansion of thc rural
network.
3.2.4.  As a first step toward addressing these constraints. a CIP for Rural Electrification has
been prepared whose targets arc consistentv with the availability of resources. In addition.
Consultants were appointed by GOP in December. 19X7 under USAID financing to preparc an
REMP. Their terms of reference which Nvcre approved by GOP. WNAPDA. USAID and the
Bank. called for completing the task in two phascs. In phase 1. the existing procedurcs.
practices and criteria for connecting newv villages were to be reviewed alongwith the availability
of detailed and reliable infonnation. at a minimum. onc (a) the number and type (domestic.
commcrcial. tube wvells. etc.) of potential consumers and their spatial dispersions. ind (b) the
location of feeders and the distances between these and the potential consumers. In this context.
special attention was to be accorded to: (a) the definition of a village/settlement: (b) Athc
establishment of criteria for selecting villages/settlements to be electrified; (c) the technical
options for providing electricity, such as single or three phase service. distribution equipment.
connection to national grid vs. isolated systems. ctc. and (d) institutional responsibility for
planning, implementing and operating the distributiont system. In Phase-1l. a comprehensive
data base of all villages/settlements was to be developed. incorporating parameters cstablished
in Phase-I. This data base was to be provide the inputs needed for ranking villages/scttlements
and for the formulation of a long tenn least cost RENIP. Phasc-I of REMP was completcd in
September 1988. and revieved bv GOP. WAPDA. USAID  and the Bank anid found
satisfactory. One of its findings is that villages/settlements and feeders wvould have to the
mapped because the available information is inadequate for developing the data basc for the
ranking of villagcs/settlements.
43



4.     A.    Evaluation of Objectives
4.1.   Proiect Obiective
The main objective of the proposed Project is to assist GOP in improvingt rural
productivity and the quality of life of the rural population. In addition, it would assist
in: (a) rationalizing investments for RE; (b) establishing a long-term framework for
extending the rural network at least cost; (c) capturing the benefits of investments
already made, while improving the reliability and quality of service and reducing
network losses; and (d) minimizing the generating capacity shortfalls through the better
management of load.
4.2,    Proiect DescriDtion
4.2. 1. The proposed Project covcrs GOP's 7-Years (FY 89-96) for RE and consists of two
components: (a) infrastructurc dcvclopmcnt: and (b) technical assistancc.
A.    Infrastructure DeveloDment
This would include:
(a)    cxtending electricity supplv to new villages and settlcments:
(b)    connecting to the Grid Stations in close proximity cf alreadv
electrified villages (back-filling);
(c)    expanding consumer connections in already electrificd villages
and settlements:
(d)    reinforcing and rchabilitating the existing rural distribution network: and
(e)    cxtending electricitv supply to tube weils located withlin the
Project area.
B.    Technical Assistance
This would provide for:
(a)    mapping of all v illages and settlements in the country:
(b)    installing load management schemes and
(c)    consultancv senrices
44



4.3    Dctails relating to the above comporents are Livcn belowv:-
A.    Infrastructure Develogme it
The proposed Project. though extension of the network in about 6.70() villages aiid
5.000 settlements. back-filling, intensification. and rehabilitation of the cxisting rural
distribution netwvork- would supply electricity to about 1/2 million domestic and commcrciai
consumcrs. about 27,000 tube wells and 12.00() scmi industrial consumers. This wvould involve
the supply. construction and erection of about 580KM of 33KV Lines. 28.000KMN of I IKV
Lincs. 16.000KM of Single and Three Phase: Low Voltage (230 V 400 V) Lines and about 5 10
(33/0.4KV) and 5 1,000 (11/0.4K\) distribution transformers vith a total capacitv of about
50.000KNIA.
B.    Technical Assistance
(a)    Mannine of Villages and Settlements
In the Project. WAPDA was required to collect the necessary data. complete the
mapping of the feeders. villages and settlements. and fonmulatc a REMP. Under USAID
financing the mapping of feeders is being undertaken. Thc proposed Project would provide
funds for the mapping of villages and settlements in the country to complemenit the work
currently being implemented under financing from the Ovcrseas Economic Co-operation Fund
(OECF). Since this information is critical to the formnulation of a long-tcrm Icast cost REMP.
WAPDA agreed to complete and submit to the Bank Group for rcviecv and comment. nor later
than Decembcr 31. 1993. the REMP. In addition. WAPDA agreed as part of the CIP to
prepare and furnish for approval to the Bank Group not later than September 30. 1990 a
timetable for completion of thc' mapping of (i) electric power feeder lines and (ii) the
unsurvcyed villages and settlements within the territor of the Borrowvcr.
(b)    Load Manaaement
Under the proposed Project funds would provided for the installation of: (i) the proven
devices for management of 27,000 tube wells and (ii) the 300 special meters to introduce
peak/off peak pricing in view of the ncec for minimizing the short fall in the generating
capacity. WAPDA agreed as part of the IP to: (i) issue by July 1. 1990 the bidding documenits
for 300 specially designed meters for peak/toff pricing and (ii) review by June 30. 1991. the
results of the Pilot Program for load management and submit to the Bank Group by Dccember
31, 1991; (a) its recommcndations regarding the cquipmcnt to bc emploved to restricting the
operations of tube wells: and (b) an action plan for the installation of such equipment.
beginning lanuarv 31. 1991.
45



c.     Consultancv Services
These would bc rcquircd for: (i) mapping of villages and settlements: (ii) dmtailed
engineering, preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision of the proposed
Project. (iii) the automation of WAPDA s accounting and financial information svstcms: and
(iv) an actuarial study of the sclf-insurance scheme of the utility.
B.    Achievement of Obiectives
4.4    Macroeconomics Performance
4.4.1. In 1980s. public sector expenditures increased fastcr than rcvenues. rcsulting in a high
fiscal deficit. which reached 8.7% of GDP in FY 88 compared to 5% in FY 80. Inflation began
to incrcasc in FY 88 with indications that it wvould rcach about 12% in FY 89. Whlile the
mcrchandise export volume continued to grow. a deterioration in the incrcasc of the trade
deficit. These developments togcther with the continuing erosion in rcmittances from Pakistan's
abroad brought thc currcnt account dcficit to about USS 1.7 Billion or 4. 1% of GDP in FY 88.
More criticallv, the Central Bank's gross foreign rcsenrcs in September 1988 were equivalcnt
to less than two and a half weeks of annual imports of goods and senrices. and less than the
cxtcrnal short-term liabilities of the bank-ing system. These imbalanccs togethcr with thc low
rates of savings and invcstment arc unlikely to support future economic growth of the order of
5.5% and above annually on a sustained basis. especially in v icw of the continued neeLlect of
the physical infrastructure and. until recently, low levels of investment in human resource and
social development overall and in rural areas in particular. In order to redress these imbalances.
the Government of Pakistan (GOP) adopted a medium-term macroeconomics adjustment
program, comprising a comprchensive package of mcasures. to be implemented over a three-
year period which began in July 1988. The continuation of structural reforms called for by
GOP's Long-Terms Encrgy Strategy (LES), which was formulated. %%ith the assistance of the
Bank under Energy Sector Loan I (ESL I. Loan 2552-PAK), constitutes an integral part of the
adjustment programme. Support for implementing these structural reforms is being provided
under the Bank's follow up sector operation, the Energy Sector Loan If ( ESL 11. Loan 3107-
PAK).
46



4.5    Sectoral Obiectives
Thc task of improving the quantity and quality of existing social services and
infrastructure and making provision for demnand created by the rapidly growing population is
difficult, however. as it would have to be carricd out in thc context of thc prevailing fiscal
dcficit, rcductions in which %vould rcquire curtailments in pcr capita public cxpcnditurc. one of
the key policy requirements of thc medium-term adjustment program adopted by GOP in FY
89. Notwithstanding this requircment. GOP, in keeping with its basic development objcctivc of
alleviating po\ert\ and raising the standard of living of the country's population. has accorded
high priority in the Seventh Plan (FY 89-93) to education. health and related sectors Tlc
proposed Project is designed to foster the achievement of GOP's objectives of promoting socio-
economic development and reducing rural/urban  inequities. intcr alia. through  rural
electrification.
4.6    Phvsical Obiectives
4.6.1.  Physical objectives of this Project was to dcvelop infrastructure for extending electric
supply to 5.000 nxew villagcs & settlements and electrification of 27.000 private tube wells for
increasing agricultural production.
4.7    Proiect Start-up and Implementation schedule
4.7.1. In view of the prevailing rcsource constraints vhich augment the need for the more
efficient utilization and better targeting of the available resources. WAPDA agreed to sclect
villages for electrification is under:-
Province      Min. Populatign         x. Dismnce        l/K(Pop./Distance)
Punjab & Sind        200           6KM                          24
N.W.F.P.              -            2OKM                         24
Baluchistan          -                                          24
Settlements          200          I1KM
47



4.7.2. Implementation of the CIP for RE was initiated by WAPDA on July I. 19x9. with
equipmcnt and materials draivn from stocks. According to WAPDA's projcctions about I 8% of
the physical targets of CIP would be achieved bv July 1, 1990. Thc proposed Projcct is
cxpected to be completed by June 30. 1995. The Project docum.cnt (PC-I) for the proposcd
Project has been updated by WAPDA to rcflect tfic rcaligruncnt in the phasing of cxpcnditures
agreed to under ESL:II and is cxpected to be submitted shortlv to ECNEC for approval.
ECNEC's approval of thc PC- I document for the proposed Project has bcen set as a cundition
of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Group Operation. Thc procedures for the implenmcntation
of the proposed Project have bcen review-ed by the Bank Group aiid found satisfactory.
4.8    Phvsical Achievements
The physical progress achieved until June 30,1997 under the Bank's Loan is as
under:-
4.8. 1. Villaze Electrified
Province     Scope        Revised Scope              Achievement
Punjab       2523.               3191               3'119
Sindh        1099                1445                2908
N.W.F.P.     1028                1202                 1110
Baluchistan   380                430                 309
Total:-      5030                6268                7446
4.8.2. New Connections
Domestic            Commer:    Indst          T/Well
1,51,Q65            1,450        83           I112
It is pertinent to mention here that the target of new connections under the
Project was 500,000, but keeping in view, the relaxed criteria for village electrification,
the above target was not practically possible and was required to be revised. As
mentioned in the staff appraisal report, a village of 200 inhabitants consists of 30
houses on average, a maximum potential of connections in 5000 villages/settlements is
not more than 1,50,00.00
48



In view of the above, the target of the new connections has been achieved
successfully.
4.8.3 . Load Manaaement(RiDnle Control Devices).
Original Scope      Revised Scope      Procured     Installed
27,000              10,000             10,000       127
4.8.4. Time of Dav Meter (TOD)
Original     Revised      Procured     Installed    TOD Tariff
Scope                                               Applied
300          1300         1279         279          7
Since June 1997. about 24 more customers opted for TOD Tariff: who are
WAPDA's largest consumer. This is encouraging.
At times when this Project was developed there was acute shortage of power
on the system but presently WAPDA has surplus power generation, as such due to
changed situation the program of installation of additional Ripple Control Devices in
the sectors such as street lights, commercial markets and Plazas, etc. is being studied.
4.8.5. R.E.M.P.
Under OECF Rural Electrification Project Database of villages and population
above 200 or above 25 house holds was prepared. Under IBRD Loan also. the
Updating of Database and Plotting of villages on S.O.P. maps have been completed
and the BC Ratio of 33407 villages have been worked out against the scope of 32510
%illages, and software's have been developed that can give the BC Ratio of anv village
or settlement.. BC Ratio will be a selection criteria of villages to be electrified in future.
49



4.9. FTNANCIAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
4.9.1. Development of Accountins. and Financial Informatiol System (AFIS-I)
Under World Bank Rural Electrification Project Agreement ( Loan No.3148-
PAK and Credit No.2078/PAK) WADPA was required to flfill a number of financial
covenants. One of the covenants was to employ international consultants for
automaton of accounting and financial functions of WAPDA. The subject assiunment
was the first phase of the automation of WAPDA's accounting and financial funct.ons
(AFIS-1). An aureement for the consultant's services under Rural Electrification
Project out of the above referred World Bank agreement was signed by Generai
Manager (Finance) Power WAPDA with ESBI on February 6,1993. The assignment
was envisaged to be completed in 18 months time with the following Modules:-
1.    Accounts Consolidation: The trial balance produced manually
by different formations of WAPDA are consolidated at
Headquarter level with preparation of all the financial reports.
2.    Pilot Accounting Module: This module is designed for
preparation of trial balance of Basic Accounting Unii:
(one for Hydel, one for Thermal Power Station and one for GSC).
The Consultants assignment pertained to svstem desi,zn. softfvare developmenr
and implementation. The Consultant was also required to assist in hardware
procurement. The Contract was signed with 103 Man Months with an amount of IR
Pound 1,174,505 and Pak Rs.7,429,246.
The Project was delayed and later on it was extended to July 3 1, 1995 with
additional amount of 52000/- Irish Pound thus increasing the original agreed cQst
ceiling to 1226505/- Irish Pound. AFIS Phase-I was a Proto Type System which was
completed in July 1995. The above said two modules have been successfully
implemented and these are working satisfactorily.
50



4.10  Maior Factors Affectin! the Proiect
The following were the main bottlenecks which hampered the prog,ress of the
Project:-
i)    According to Bank's guidelines the activity of material procurement was
splitted in to two stages namely 60% &. 40% procurement. The Bidding Document
prepared for 60%  material procurement could not be continued as per original
schedule as the number of Tender Documents were increased and prepared again. The
procurement activity for 40% procurement was not allowed by Bank until the
completion of 60% procurement which resulted in delay in procurement of material
and Project.
ii)    The engagement of Consultants was also delayed due to time taken in
preparation of TOR, concurrence of TOR from IBRD and other procedural delays.
iii)   The activity of preparation and evaluation of Bidding Documents for
engagzement of Contractors was delaved in specifying the modality of supervision of
work- whether by WAPDA or Consultants, change of Bid Documents Format by
IBRD. re-preparation of the Tender Documents as per changed Format, Concurrence
of IBRD for Retendering for works in N\WFP Province.
iv)   There was a delay in nomination by the Legislators, non-availability of material
and delay by the successful bidders in acceptance of Letter of Award, and submission
of Bank Guarantees.
51



4.11   Proiect Sustainabilitv
The Project has been su"cessful in providing power facilities to large number of
Rural Population with a economic investment. This has improved the productivity and
quality of life of rural population. With the commissioning of all villages electrified
under this programme (installation of all categories of connections), it is likelv to
contribute significantly in,
(i)   rationalizinit of Rural Electrification investment.
(ii)   establishing a long term frame work for extending the rural network at
economic cost and improving the reliability and quality of services.
Since Rural Electrification Programme reflects GOP's Social objectives, hence
WAPDA is not in a position to recover its full costs. The Project is, therefore,
sustainable and viable in case, GOP provides adequate resources to WAPDA for Rural
Electrification investments.
4.12   Bank Performance.
The Bank's performance during the course of the project showed that a close
but friendly control was being kept over progress, costs and allocation of funds. The
Bank allowed WAPDA to use available funds for project components if they met the
project objectives, and it also allowed an extension of time beyond that initially agreed.
Tle Banrk carried out supervision missions, with a reasonable continuitv in staff
drawn from headquarters and Resident Mission. The frequency of the supervision
missions is deemed adequate, keeping in view the cost involved in assembling and
bringing a multi-disciplinary team to the filed. However, the supervision teams always
had a large agenda in addition to supervising this project. and had to carry out
supervision, planning, preparation and appraisal of other projects as well during their
missions. This left limited time for the missions to carry out a detailed review of the
progress on the Rural Electrification Project, for site visits and   meeting the
implementation staff, and for providing support and assistance in resolving
implementation problems.
52



It is worth mentioninse here thai: bills amounting to Rs. 23.4 million were not
paid by World Bank with th, objection that the same were not verified by the
Consultants. Although, these bills were verified by Director (Planning) of respective
AEB in view of the refusal of Consultants to fulfill their obligations after Closing Date
of the Project. WAPDA also requested Bank to grant second extension upto
31.12.1998 enabling WAPDA to clear all liabilities of Consultants/Contractors safely
and avoidina cancellation of un-spent Loan amount, but Bank did not autree to the
request and a huge Loan amount remained un-spent and canceled afterwards. This has
increased WAPDA's financial hardships. Despite this, the Bank's overall performance
during supervision is considered satisfactorv.
4.13   Borrower Performance
WAPDA undertook the Project with the full commitment and seriousness, for
the obvious gains it had to offer; however. \VAPDA's performance in impiementing
this Project suffered because of a variety of controllable and uncontrollable factors,
which resulted in implementation delays.
Although the Project was completed with a delay of almost one & half years,
WAPDA benefited through the professional experience gained during implementation.
Given the constraints under which the Project was implemented, WAPDA's
performance during Project implementation has been satisfactory.
4.14. Assessment of Outcome.
Rural Electrification Project gains achieved upto 30.06.1997 are as under:-
i)    Addition of 8.4KM 33 XKV Line.
ii)    Addition of 10795KM HT Lines and 12575KM LT Lines(860 IKM
3 Phase and 3974KM Single Phase Line) in the existing WAPDA
Distribution Network.
iii)   Addition of 5 No. 33/.40KVA Sub-Stations.
iv)   Addition of 11063 No. Transformers of various capacities
(25KVA, 50KVA, I OOKVA and 200KVA) in WAPDA
Distribution Network.
v)    Installation of 1,52,515 No. consumers connections of all
categories like, domestic, commercial, industrial and
tube wells etc.
53



Areas where the Project outcome has been less than satisfactory are;
a)    Load Management Targets
b)    Contracts.and procurement managernent aid
implementation of schedule and supervision.   \
However, the overall assessment of outcome can be turned as clearly
satisfactory.
4.15.  Future Operation
An Operational Plan covering the technical, commercial, financial and
institution aspects has been agreed with WAPDA. This plan identifies the staffing and
other resource requirements, defines the specific performance indicators, and describes
the understanding reached with the borrower on follow-up actions by WAPDA and the
Bank. The Operation Plan is included as part of Appendix A.
WAPDA needs to ensure adequate budgetaty allocations for meeting
operations and maintenance requirements for the R.E. Project, so that. financial
constraints do not impede the required maintenance activities or the operational
performance.
4.16. Kev Lessons Learned
4.16.1.      WAPDA should strengthen its systems for supervision of ail its ongoing
projects to avoid delays and get timely feedback for taking remedial actions. In this
regard, it should ensure greater liaison between its project managers. engineers and the
consultants engaged in supervising the projects. In order to avoid delays and cost over-
runs, it is proposed that all ongoing projects be reviewed in sufficient detail, at least
each quarter, by the top WAPDA management in addition to day-to-day coordinatior.
These reviews should include meetings with the project staff and consultants, site
visits, identification of implementation problems and remedies, and timeframes for
executing the remedial actions.
54



4.16.2.      In order to make the project least cost effective, the GOP should review
the policy/selection criteria o' the villages/settlement for electrification R.E.M.P.
should form the basis of the selection criteria based on benefit cost ratio instead of the
existing policy of nomination of villages, through the Legislators.
4.16.3.      For effective monitoring and implementation of project, the activities
should not be spread across various WAPDA formations and instead the control
should be in the hands of Project Director of the Project. Frequent transferipostings of
Project Director and the staff contribute to delay in decision making as -well as in
actions.
4.16.4.      World Bank needs to relax the condition of hiring the Consultans in
Rural Electrification for detailed engineering, as this can be accomplished better by
','APDA which is well equipped with expertise and skills of the desired standards. As
such, a lot of expenditure on this activity can be saved.
4.17. Evaluation of Program Obiectivge Catezories.
Bv providing the power facilities. to the rural population the Project has
been successfullv in improving its productivity; quality of l;fe and in turn overall
economy of the Countrv. Rural population has benefited from better communication,
health and education facilities.
55



