Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6-A!  3/L/f -A/
2*7d' -   (o4  k-    Report No. 8039-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 27, i989
Energy Operations Division
Country Department 1
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a rsticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed withou World Bank authorizaton



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit     -  Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00           -  Rs 21.6
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 Barrel of oil (bbl)                       -  0.159 cubic meters
1 Metric Ton of Oil (mtoe)                  -  7.4 bbl
- 10 million kilocalories
1 Million cubic feet of gas                 -  24.3 toe
1 Kilometer (km)                            -  0.6214 mile (mi)
1 Ton (t)                                   -  1,000 kilograms
1 Kilovolt (kV)                             -  1,000 volts (V)
1 Megawatt (MW)                             -  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)                     -  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 Kilowatt hour (kWh)                       -  1,000 watt-hours (wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                       -  1,000,000 kilowatt hours
1 Kilocalories (Kcal)                       -  3.97 British Thermal Uniits
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
AEB      -    Area Electricity Boards
AG       -    Auditor General
ANL      -    Argonne Nationr-l Laboratories
CDWP     -     Central Development Working Party
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CIP      -     Core Investment Program
DDP      -     Distribution Development Program
DOFMA    -     Department of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture
ECC      -     Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC    -     Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EHV      -     Extra High Voltage
ERG      -     Energy Review Group
ESL I    -     Energy Sector Loan I
ESL II   -     Energy Sector Loan II
ENERPLAN -    National Energy Planning Office
ENERCON  -     National Energy Conservation Centre
FAS      -     Fuel Adjustment-Surcharge
FMIP     -     Financial Management Implementation Plan
FY       -     Fiscal Year
GDP      -     Gross DomesLic Product
GOP      -     Government of Pakistan
IGB      -     International Competitive Bidding
ICG      -     Internal Cash Generation
IERR     -     Internal Economic Rate of Return
IP       -     Implementation Program
KESC     -     Karachi Electric Supply Company
LES      -     Long-Term Energy Strategy
LIB            Limited International Bidding
LRMC     -     Long Run Marginal Cost
MCF      -    Million Cubic Feet
MOP      -    Ministry of Production
MPNR     -    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MPD      -     Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP      -     Ministry of Water and Power
NDFC     -    National Development Finance Corporation
NEPC     -     National Energy Policy Committee
NVFP     -     Northwest Frontier Province
OGDC     -    Oil and Gas Development Corporation
OECF     -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
PMDC     -     Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PPAR     -     Project Performance Audit Report
PS       -     Private Sector
RE       -    Rural Electrification
REMP     -     Rural Electrification Master Plan
SNGPL    -     Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditures
TCF      -     Trillion Cubic Feet
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Program
USAID    -     United Stated Agency for International C velopment
WAPDA    -    Water and Power Development Authority
GOP's FISCAL YEAR (FYI



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary              : Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Amount                     Loan - US$123 million
Credit - SDR 29.1 million (US$37 million)
Terms                    : Loan - Twenty years,  including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Credit - Standard with 35 years maturity.
Project Description        The Project covers GOP's 7-year (FY89-95) CIP for RE
and consists  of  two components:    infrastructure
development and technical assistance. Infrastructure
Development.   This would include:   (a) extending
electricity supply to new villages and settlements;
(b) connecting to the grid settlements  in close
proximity of already electrified villages; (c)
intensifying   consumer   connections   in   already
electrified villages and settlements; (d) reinforcing
and rehabilitating the existing rural distribution
network; and (e) extending electricity supply to
tubewells located within the project area. Technical
Assistance. This would provide for: (a) mapping of
all villages and settlements in the country; (b)
installing   load  management   schemes;   and  (c'
consultancy services.
Benefits                 : The quantifiable benefits associated with the Project
are: revenues from incremental sales of electricity;
and fuel savings stemming from the substitution of
electricity for diesel oil for irrigation pumping and
kerosene for household lighting. Although not easily
quantifiable, benefits are also expected from the
overall improvements in rural productivity and the
quality of life of the rural population which would
stem the flow of migrants  to urban areas.   The
internal economic rate of return of the Project is
about 11% based on incremental sales of electricity
which were valued at consumers' willingness to pay.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks                    : The main risks associated with the Project are:  (a)
delays in implementation arising from constraints on
the availability of counterpait funds; and (b)
shortage of generating capacity. Adequate provision
is being made under the Project to minimize these
risks.   First, the targits of the RE program were
reduced and the phasing of expenditures was realigned
to ensure consistency between the targets of the
Project and the availability of resources. Agreement
reached under ESL II on a CIP, of which the Project
is an integral part, would ensure that it would
receive priority in terms of allocation of resources
both  foreign  and  local.    The  measures  to  be
implemented under the proposed Project would also
ensure that at a minimum 40% of WAPDA's CIP is
financed from internal sources. Second, given that
generating capacity shortages by FY93 are expected to
be reduced to about 600 MW and the 300 largest
industrial consumers alone have a coincidental peak
demand of about 1,200 MW, implementation of the load
management programs would allow WAPDA to meet the
system's forecast demand without further increases in
load shedding.
Proiect Financing Plan
--- US$ Million----
Local Foreign Total
Proposed IBRD Loan            11    112    123
Proposed IDA Credit           10     27     37
OECF Loan                     42    120    162
USAID Grant                    -     56     56
ADB Loan                       -     10     10
Customers' Contribution      105      -    105
WAPDA                        194      -    194
Local Borrowings              28      -     28
TOTAL                     390    325    715
Disb-irsements
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
-----------------US$ Million------------
FY91       9FY 93   FY92     FY95   FY96
Annual            11.6   25.6   49.0   49.4   14.4   10.0
Cumulative        11.6   37.2   86.2  135.6  150.0  160.0



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    ENERGY  SECTOR   .............................................  1
A. Introduction .1
B. Sectoral Setting.                                              3
C.   Developments in the Sector, FY79-88.                         4
D.   Implementation of LES:  Progress under ESL I
and the Program for ESL II.                               5
E.   Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and
Experience witn Past Lending.                             9
II. THE BENEFICIARY ............................................     10
III. THE PROJECT .15
IV. FINANCES ...................................................     23
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .....................................      31
A.   Load Forecast ........................................      31
B.   Least Cost Alternative ...............................      32
C.   Return on Investment .................................      33
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          ..                 34
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission to Pakistan in
June 1989, consisting of M. Sharma (Economist), C. Christofides (Principal Power
Engineer), R. Sharma (Financial Analyst), H. Arima (Power Engineer), C. Gavino
(Financial Analyst), L. Maistre (Consultant) and H. El-Sherbiny (Consultant).
Messrs. A. Oduolowu (Senior Petroleum Specialist) and Rashid Aziz (Economist,
Resident Mission) also contributed to the preparation of this report.
Secretarial assistance was provided by Mmes. Anne Haldar, Hannah Pratt and Young
Ok Hong.



ANNEXES                                                             Faae No.
Annex 1.1 : Organizational Chart .................................            36
Annex 1.2 : Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES) ......................            37
Annex 2.1 : Organizational Chart .................................            41
Annex 3.1 : Population Projection and Consumption Forecast .......            42
Annex 3.2 : Number of Villages and Level of Electrification ......            43
Annex 3.3 : Capacity Demand of RE Expansion Project (1988-95) ....            44
Annex 3.4 : Scope and Implementation Schedule of RE Expansion
Project (FY 1989-95) ................................          45
Annex 3.5 : Scope and Schedule of Project Component Financed
by Bank Group .......................................          46
Annex 3.6 : Bill of Quantities for RE Project ....................            47
Annex 3.7 : Bills of Quantities for Bank Group Financing .........            48
Annex 3.8 : Construction Program of Lines and Grid Stations
(1988-93) ...........................................         49
Annex 3.9 : Unit Cost of Materials (June 1988 Prices) ............            50
Annex 3.10:  Number of Pending Connection Applications ............           51
Annex 3.11:  Project Cost Table ...................................           52
Annex 3.12:  Estimated Implementation Schedule ....................           60
Annex 3.13:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule ......................           61
Annex 3.14:  Project Implementation Program .......................           63
Annex 4.1 : Financial Management Implementation Plan .............            65
Annex 4.2 : WAPDA Actual and Forecast Income Statement ...........            66
Annex 4.3 : WAPDA Generation Forecast ............................            73
Annex 4.4 : WAPDA Capital Expenditure Program FY89-FY98 ..........            74
Annex 4.5 : WAPDA Organization Chart of General Manager -
Finance (Power) ....................................          77
Annex 4.6 : WAPDA Consumer Contributions .........................            78
Annex 5.1 : Total Sales of Electricity ...........................            81
Annex 5.2 : Assumptions and Calculations for the Least Cost
Analysis ...........................................          82
Annex 5.3 : Assumptions and Calculations for the Rate of Return..             86
MAP No. IBRD 16248R1



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ENERGY SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     Macroeconomic Performance.  Pakistan's economic performance during the Fifth
and Sixth Plans  (FY79-FY88) was impressive.   Growth in GDP averaged about 6.5%
annually, and was spread across virtually all sectors of the economy.  The overall
improvement in economic performance was fostered by prudent economic management and
structural reforms, including the deregulation of controls o-er investment, import
liberalization and the adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy; rationalization
of prices, particularly of agricultural and petroleum products; and directing public
development expenditures toward priority sectors.
1.02     Despite these achievements, macroeconomic imbalances were a concern by FY88.
In the 1980s, public sector expenditures increased faster tnan revenues, resulting in
a high fiscal deficit, which reached 8.7% of GDP in FY88 compared to 5% in FY80.
Inflation began to increase in FY88 with indications that it would reach about 12% in
FY89. While the merchandise export volume continued to grow, a deterioration in the
terms of trade and generally accommodative domestic credit contributed to an overall
increase in the trade deficit. These developments together with the continuing erosion
in remittances from Pakistanis abroad brought the current account deficit to about
US$1.7 billion or 4.1% of GDP in FY88.  More critically, the Central Bank's gross
foreign reserves in September 1988 were equivalent to less than two and a half weeks
of annual imports of goods and services, and less than the external short-term
liabilities of the banking system. These imbalances together with the low rates of
savings and investment are unlikely to support future economic growth of the order of
5.5% and above annually on a sustained basis, especially in view of the continued
neglect of the physical infrastructure and, until recently, low levels of investment
in human resource and social development overall and in rural areas in particular.
In order to address these imbalances, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) adopted a
medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program, comprising a comprehensive package of
measures, to be implemented over a three-year period which began in July 1988. The
continuation of structural reforms called for by GOP's Long-term Energy Strategy (LES),
which was formulated with the assistance of the Bank under Energy Sector Loan I (ESL
I, Loan 2552-PAK), constitutes an integral part of the adjustment program. Support
for implementing these structural reforms is being provided under the Bank's follow-
up sector operation, the Energy Sector Loan II (ESL II, Loan 3107-PAK).
1.03     Rural Economy.   Presently, about 72% of the country's Dopulation of about
105 million resides in rural areas. Agriculture remains the main source of income
and employment for almost two-thirds of the rural population. The transformation of
the agricultural sector brought about by the Green Revolution over the past two decades
has enabled Pakistan to not only attain self-sufficiency in rice, wheat and cotton,
but also to become a leading exporter of raw cotton in the world and dominate the
export market for high quality rice.   This transformation was made possible by a
combination of measures introduced by GOP. Credit, input and crop price incentives



improved the terms of trade for agriculture, and the spread of tubewells permitted a
substantial expansion in cultivated areas as well as an increase in cropping intensity.
1.04     The progress in the agricultural sector, though commendable, has not been
accompanied by corresponding improvements in asset ownership and endowments of human
capital. Access to cultivable land remains inequitable, despite the attempts under
the land reform acts of 1959, 1972 and 1977 to redistribute productive assets to the
landless. In fact, the repossession of land by landlords for owner cultivation during
the transformation of the agricultural sector and the fragmentation of holdings through
inheritance  has  resulted  in  smaller  sized  farms  and  a  growing  incidence  of
landlessness. Recent estimates indicate that about 25% of the farm population owns
about 65% of the area under cultivation and three-fourths of the farms are 12 acres
or smaller and a third are smaller than five acres. Moreover, despite the incentives
provided by GOP, access of small farmers to water for irrigation, financial resources,
markets, information and input supplies and prices remain inferior as do the prices
for their output.
1.05     For the landless, estimated at 42% of the rural households, opportunities
for off-farm employment are limited; only in parts of Punjab and the North West
Frontier Province (NWFP) has small-scale industry with strong linkages to agriculture
begun to absorb an increasing share of the rural labor force.   As a result, the
majority of the rural landless work as permanent laborers on other peoples land or are
livestock holders. Of the latter about 90% own no more than two animals, primarily
for dietary purposes and draft power and only occasionally for cash incomes. However,
the non-commercial orientation of the livestock sector, as reflected in the lack of
marketing of inputs and outputs, has not helped the landless who are solely or near
solely dependent on livestock for their livelihood.
1.06     Endowment of human capital also remains a constraint to increasing the
employment opportunities and improving the productivity of the rural population.
Because of historically low levels of investment in education, coverage and quality
is poor, participation rates at all levels are low, and drop-out rates and illiteracy
are high.   Although underinvestment in education has affected Pakistan's entire
population, the rural inhabitants in general and rural women in particular have
suffered the most.   Over 70% of the adult population is illiterate, with female
literacy rates in rural areas averaging only 4%. In FY86, gross participation rates
for boys and girls in primary school were about 711 and 38%, respectively. The gender
and rural/urban disparities increase for secondary education. In 1985, about 50% of
the urban boys aged 10 to 14 were in school, compared with 3% of rural girls in the
same group.
1.07     As  for health  facilities,  their coverage in rural areas  also remains
inadequate. At present, there is only one basic health unit for about 38,000 people
and one rural health clinic for 208,000 people, with coverage being particularly poor
in rural Sind and Baluchistan. In these two provinces, the average patient has to
travel about 14 kms to reach the nearest basic health unit. Even in areas served by
health facilities, utilization rates remain low because of the poor quality of service
which in itself is a consequence of the shortage of recurrent expenditures. This is
manifested in inadequate staffing and supply of medicine and equipment. The low morale
of doctors in rural areas, where living conditions are severe and little equipment and
supplies are available for treatment, is also a reason for the overall poor quality
of service.
1.08     Access to physical infrastructure, though no less significant for improving
the quality of life and welfare, also remains disproportionately low for the rural



population. Currently, about 40% of the rural population has access to clean water
and only 10% have sewerage facilities.  The corresponding figures for their urban
counterparts are 80% and 50%, respectively. Likewise, only 30% of the rural compared
to 70% of urban population has access to electricity, with the bulk of the former
representing the better-off households. The rural poor, therefore, have to rely on
commercial fuels, kerosene for lighting and diesel for irrigation pumping, which are
not only imported, but whose end-use efficiency is substantially lower than that of
electricity.   Moreover, because of the remoteness of villages and the attendant
increases in transportation costs, rural consumers pay more for these fuels than their
urban counterparts.
1.09     With a rapidly growing population, which is increasing at an average annual
rate of about 3%, among the highest in the world, and a finite land base, an increasing
proportion of the rural population would have to make a living away from land.
Consequently, unless income generation and employment opportunities are created and
measures are introduced to improve the quality of life, the propensity of a larger
proportion of the rural population to migrate to cities and urban areas would increase.
The task of improving the quantity and quality of existing social services aLd
infrastructure and making provis'on for demand created by the rapidly growing
population is difficult, however, as it would have to be carried out in the context
of the prevailing fiscal deficit, reductions in which would require curtailments in
per capita public expenditure, one of the key policy requirements of the medium-term
adjustment program adopted by COP in FY89. Notwithstanding this requirement, GOP, in
keeping with its basic development objective of alleviating poverty and raising the
standard of living of the country's population, has accorded high priority in the
Seventh Plan (FY89-93) to education, health and related sectors that are the basic
ingredients for equal participation in economic life and human resource deelopment.
The proposed Project is designed to foster the achievement of GOP's objectives of
promoting socio-economic development and reducing rural/urban inequities, inter alia,
through rural electrification (RE).
B. Sectoral Setting
1.10     Energy Resources.   Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources
consist of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal.   The hydropower potential is
estimated at about 30,000 MW.   Proven and probable reserves of natural gas are
estimated at about 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF) and 3.3 TCF, respectively.   Oil
reserves, both probable and proven, are estimated at about 58 million tons. Coal and
lignite deposits are estimated at about 900 million tons, of which 175 million tons
are proven. In addition, the country has a large base of traditional fuels in the form
of fuelwood and agricultural and animL! waste, which provide a major share of rural
consumers'  energy needs.   Despite its endowment of energy resources,  Pakistan's
dependence on imported liquid hydrocarbons is expected to continue over the foreseeable
future, particularly in light of the long lead time and vast financial resources
required for the implementation of the major hydro sites. This dependence, however,
can be reduced by: accelerating the development of the smaller hydro sites, and also
oil, gas and coal, and encouraging the latter's substitution as well as that of
imported coal for higher value petroleum products; restraining the growth of demand
for energy through price and non-price measures, including rehabilitation and
retrofitting of power plants, refineries and energy-intensive industries; expanding
and strengthening the implementation capabilities of the entities involved in the
sector.
1.11     Institutional Setting.   Four ministries share the responsibility for the
energy sector: the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry



- 4 -
of Water and Power (MWP), the Ministry of Production (MOP), and the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MPD). Coordination between the ministries on energy matters
is provided by the Energy Wing of MPD, which acts as a secretariat for the National
Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and Energy Review Group (ERG). NEPC is responsible for
the formulation of GOP's overall energy policy. The review of the investment plans
of the sector and the approval of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction
of the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC). The Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) and Central Development Working Party (CDWP) review and
approve major proposals and projects for all sectors, including energy. In addition,
the Department of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture (DOFMA), is responsible for
afforestation and the Environment and Urban Affairs Division, Ministry of Housing and
Works, for the implementation of GOP's environmental policies.
1.12     The management of day-to-day operations in the energy sector is vested in a
number of public and private sector entities as well as a number of semi-autonomous
corporations in which GOP has, either directly or through public institutions a
controlling interest. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA, para 2.01)
and the Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation (KESC) are the two entities involved
in the power subsector. The former is a public sector entity and the latter a semi-
autonomous corporation.  As shown in the organization chart for the energy sector
(Annex 1.1), both WAPDA "id KESC are under the jurisdiction of MWP.
C. Developments in the Sector. FY79-FY88
1.13     The Fifth Plan (FY79-FY83) emphasized the accelerated development of domestic
energy resources and rationalization of energy prices.   However,  financial and
implementation constraints impeded the achievement of the supply targets for all energy
products except natural gas. The largest shortfall was in the oil and power subsectors
where only 64Z and 50X of the output targets, respectively, were achieved.   These
shortfalls together with the rapid growth of consumption, precipitated by GOP's policy
of underpricing energy to stimulate growth, increased the country's dependence on
imported energy. In recognition of the growing supply gap, GOP accorded high priority
to restructuring the sector during the Sixth Plan (FY84-FY88).  Its objectives were
to accelerate and rationalize the development of energy, correct distortions in energy
pricing, streamline the institutions and agencies in the sector, and increase private
sector involvement in the development, production and delivery of energy. As these
objectives were not translated into concrete policies and programs, in the first two
years of the Plan only one-half of the planned investment program for the sector was
implemented, energy prices were allowed to decline in real terms, and the institutions
in the sector remained unresponsive to the pressing needs of the economy.   These
setbacks prompted GOP to formulate LES, covering the period 1986-2010. It calls for
the implementation of integrated programs of structural reforms over five year
intervals, corresponding to the planning cycle in the areas of: resource development
and energy investments; pricing, resource mobilization and demand management; and
institutional development. Details relating to LES are presented in Annex 1.2.
1.14     To assist GOP in implementing the reforms called for by LES, a series of
sector loans were envisaged by the Bank, each in support of a monitorable core program
of policy actions and priority investments, which would form the umbrella for the
Bank's lending for specific elergy investments and for the more effective coordination
of external financing for the sector. The first phase of these reforms was implemented
successfully under ESL I, during the last three years (FY86-FY88) of the Sixth Plan.
Support for implementing the second phase is being provided under the follow-up sector
operation, ESL II, which covers the first three years (FY89-FY91) of the Seventh Plan.



- 5 -
A review of the progress made under ESL I and of the measures to be implemented under
ESL II is presented below.
D. Implementation of LES: Progress under ESL I and the
Program for ESL II
1.15     Energy Investments.  As a first step towards rationalizing investments and
minimizing the shortfalls in energy supply, a Core Investment Program (CIP) of priority
projects was agreed to under ESL I, including the sources of financing for its
implementation such as the contribution of GOP through the Annual Development Plan
and that of the sector entities from their internally-generated funds. In keeping with
this agreement, GOP took all necessary actions required to mobilize resources for the
implementation of the priority projects. As a result, actual investments between FY86
and FY88 were only 8% lower than envisaged, Rs 46 billion compared to Rs 50 billion.
This represents a substantial improvement relative to the past, when deviations between
planned and actual investments were as high as 50%.
1.16     To ensure consistency between the sectoral  and the medium-term policy
framework targets, a detailed forecast of demand for energy for the Seventh and Eighth
Plans (FY89-98) was prepared based on the projected rates of growth for the main
sectors of the economy and increases in the domestic prices of energy products. The
ongoing and new projects required to meet the forecast demand were identified and their
financial requirements were matched with the implementation and self-financing
capabilities of the pu'olic sector and semi-autonomous entities.  Projects in excess
of those to be undertaken by the public entities were earmarked for implementation by
the Private Sector (PS) to reduce potential shortages in energy supply. The CIP for
ESL II comprises ongoing and new projects to be implemented by both the public and
private sectors during the first three years of the Seventh Plan. Implementation of
this CIP, including the measures to mobilize resources from both the public and private
sectors, would be monitored and reviewed with GOP on an annual basis.
1.17     Resource Development.  In keeping with the objectives of LES of developing
8,700 MW of new hydropower potential by the year 2010, GOP agreed, under ESL I, to
initiate by Decomber, 1986, a feasibility study for Basha (2,400 MW), which was to II
implemented after Kalabagh (2,400 MW). This study, however, could not be initiated
because WAPDA's views concerning the scope and timing of the work to be undertaken
differed markedly from those of the consultants who had prepared the prefeasibility
study for Basha. To resolve these differences, an international panel of experts was
appointed by GOP in 1988 at the behest of the Bank.   Based on a review of the
prefeasibility study, the panel outlined a work plan which has been approved by GOP
and the Bank. The appointment of consultants for the preparation of the feasibility
study for Basha has been set as a condition of release of the second tranche of ESL
II.  Moreover, as the implementation of Kalabagh has also been delayed because of
unresolved issues concerning the allocation of water and compensation for land to be
inundated, detailed studies for the development of the sites at Chashma (240 MW),
Taunsa (110 MW), Jinnah (110 MW) and Ghazi Ghariala (1,000 MW) would be accelerated
under ESL II to offset, at least partially, the 2,400 MW shortfall in hydrocapacity
resulting from this delay.
1.18     Under ESL I, two studies were completed on issues relating to the coal
subsector.   The first identified the main operational constraints  impeding the
development of coal and outlined a comprehensive program to assess the reserves at
Lakhra and Sonda Thatta.    The  assessment of the Pakistan Mineral  Development
Corporation's (PMDC) lease area at Lakhra was completed in 1986 and proven reserves



- 6 -
sufficient to produce 4 million tons annually were identified.   The second study
outlined a strategy for restructuring PMDC to promote the more efficient operation of
mines in the public sector, and provided a basis for reviewing the role of the public
sector in coal mining. The recommendations of this study would be reviewed under ESL
II with the view to separating PMDC's coal and salt mining activities and establishing
*a Mineral Development Board. As a condition of effectiveness of ESL II, GOP would also
be required to approve, in principle, the development of the proven reserves at Lakhra
through a joint venture between PMDC and PS. Finally, GOP has agreed to complete a
study which would review the institutional arrangements for granting coal concessions
and the existing fiscal incentive framework for investments in coal development with
a view to encouraging investments by PS.
1.19     In keeping with the objectives of LES of accelerating the exploration and
development of oil and gas, a new gas producer pricing formula was adopted (para 1.22)
and a national policy aimed at increasing the level of foreign and local private equity
investment and balancing the luvolvement of public and private sectors in the
exploration and development of oil and gas was outlined under ESL I. As a result, new
oil and gas fields were discovered and a number of already discovered oil fields and
non-associated gas fields were developed. In addition, a detailed Hydrocarbon Habitat
Study of all onshore basins in the country was completed and a concession promotion
map of the high prioricy and accessible areas was prepared. Areas where exploration
would be undertaken b.y the Oil and Gas Development Corporation and PS were identified
and successfully promoted to PS in December, 1988. Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to
further accelerate the development of already discovered fields and review the progress
made in exploration by both the private and public sectors.
1.20     Households are the single largest consumers of energy in Pakistan, accounting,
in 1987, for approximately 45% of total energy consumed. The decline in firewood use
by households, together with the increase in the use of other biomass fuels suggests
that the forest cover is being rapidly depleted with attendant adverse environmental
consequences. However, the existing data are inadequate for formulating a policy aimed
at optimizing the mix of biomass and modern fuels for household consumption. Under
ESL II, GOP has agreed to develop a comprehensive database on household energy use
patterns and formulate a household energy strategy as well as a monitorable timetable
for its implementation; and review the ongoing work on forestry inventory, identify
gaps in the work program and formulate a long-term reforestation program.
1.21     Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management.  In order to enable
WAPDA to finance 40% of its investment program from internal sources,   as was agreed
under ESL I, the level and structure of tariffs was adjusted and measures were
initiated to promote the integrated operation of WAPDA and KESC. Details relating to
the adjustments in tariffs implemented under ESL I and those on which agreement has
been reached under ESL II are discussed in paras 4.03 and 4.04.
1.22     To increase the participation of PS in gas exploration, a new gas nroducer
price formula was introduced under ESL I.  It links the producer price of gas to
two-thirds the border price of fuel oil, less a negotiated discount, based on
geological conditions of the concession involved.  PS, both local and foreign, has
responded favorably and on the basis of this formula contracts have been signed for
thirteen new concessions and negotiations for several others are under way.   To
maintain this momentum, GOP expanded the application of this formula to already
discovered fields, provided the concessionaires are willing to renegotiate their entire
contracts. Despite these efforts, the recent downturn in the international price of
oil has dampened the interest of oil companies in undertaking new exploration
activities, particularly in high cost offshore areas in Pakistan. Therefore, with the



-7-
objective of providing additional stimulus for private sector exploration, GOP has
agreed under ESL II to adopt a revised gas producer price formula for new concessions
in offshore areas, which would link the price of non-associated gas to full parity with
the border price of fuel oil, less a negotiated discount.
1.23     The consumer price of gas, which until 1981 was maintained at low levels
relative to that of its substitutes, has since been increased six times, averaging
about 23% annually in nominal terms. With the introduction of a 33% increase in the
consumer price of gas to households, effective December 1, 1988, the weighted average
consumer price of gas is now slightly higher than the border price of fuel oil (Rs
41.6/MCF compared to Rs 40.7/MCF), which is well above the target of 66% originally
agreed to under SAL I, and reaffirmed under ESL I. Despite this progress, distortions
persist in the structure of the consumer price of gas.  As these distortions are
resulting in the uneconomic use of gas, GOP has agreed under ESL II to: (a) maintain
the consumer price of gas to industrial and commercial sectors at full parity with the
domestic price of fuel oil; (b) increase the price of gas to: (i) the power subsector
to reach full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil by June 30, 1994, with
appropriate discounts for the power subsector's investment in gas transmission; and
(ii) households to reach parity with the border price of fuel by June 30, 1993; (c)
assess the impact of higher gas prices on the ex-factory fertilizer price and identify
investments in retrofitting and substitution that would allow the industry to absorb
higher gas prices; and (d) undertake a study to assess the potential for peak shaving
and establishing a tariff structure which would promote operational and allocative
efficiency.
1.24     In order to provide incentives to refineries to improve their product-mix
and efficiency, a new formula for ex-refinery pricing was introduced in 1988 for the
two refineries in Karachi. This formula, however, was not appropriate for the Attock
refinery, as it has access to only locally-produced crude oil, the production of which
varies from year to year leading to widely fluctuating costs of refining per unit of
output, since most of the costs of the refinery are fixed. This, in turn, results in
widely fluctuating profit levels. Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to develop aind install
a detailed refinery processing simulation model within the Directorate General Oil,
MPNR, with assistance from consultants, to review the experience of the two Karachi
refineries with the new pricing formula and on a basis of this review, revise the new
pricing formula for ex-refinery products for the Attock refinery.
1.25     In 1981, GOP adopted the policy of passing on the higher cost of petroleum
products to final consumers. This policy, and the fact that domestic retail prices
were reduced only marginally in response to the decline in the international price of
oil has enabled the petroleum subsector to become the principal contributor to the
national budget. The weighted average retail price in June 1988 was about 170% of the
weighted average border price. The Bank supports GOP's pricing policy, except for the
fact that domestic prices of industrial fuels should be maintained at parity with
border prices to avoid any adverse impact on the competitiveness of the Pakistani
economy.   Therefore, with the objectives of mobilizing resources and preserving the
competitiveness of industry, under ESL II, GOP has agreed to maintain:   (a) the
domestic prices for higher value products, such as gasoline, and naphtha, above border
prices to mobilize resources, and adjust them in line with any movement in border
prices; and (b) the domestic prices of fuel oil, diesel, and kerosene at parity with
average border prices plus inland handling charges.
1.26     Unlike electricity, gas and oil, the prices of coal are not regul½3'1  1 OP,
but determined by market forces. On a price basis alone, coal is competitive with



- 8 -
fuel oil (and also with wood and charcoal). Accordingly, no action on coal pricing
policy is being sought under ESL II.
1.27     Under ESL I, a National Energy Conservation Centre (ENERCON) was established
to serve as the focal point for all conservation activities.   In keeping with its
mandate, ENERCON has initiated training and outreach programs, and completed audits
ir. 43 private sector and 27 public sector industrial plants. In addition, a Building
Energy Code has been drafted and a program to audit 300 tubewells and retrofit 100 of
them has also been launched.  Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to undertake detailed
engineering and feasibility studies in 40 of the largest industrial energy consuming
plants in the country; prepare self-standing energy conservation projects; and complete
a study with assistance from consultants, to identify the constraints to conservation
arising from tax, industrial and trade legislation and formulate a package of
incentives to promote energy conservation.
1.28     Institutional DeveloDment. In order to streamline the decision-making process
and improve the operating efficiency of the power subsector, under ESL I, a study aimed
at reorganizing WAPDA was completed by GOP with the assistance of consultants financed
by USAID. The study recommended the separation of WAPDA's distribution function from
generation and transmission. This recommendation has been accepted, in principle, and,
under ESL II, GOP has agreed to establish, in accordance with a dated and monitorable
action plan, a distinct and self-contained distribution wing within WAPDA with its own
accounts, investment program, commercial arrangements for the purchase of power from
WAPDA's generation/transmission wing, as well as, agreed financial performance
criteria.
1.29     GOP has also reviewed with the Bank, the implications of WAPDA taking the
generation and high voltage facilities of KESC and restricting the activities of the
'atter to the bulk purchase of power from WAPDA for distribution in the Karachi area.
The Bank has ascertained that in order for this plan to be realized, a financial
restructuring program for KESC would have to be implemented, given its precarious
financial situation. Presently, KESC is not in a position to mobilize the large amount
of resources required to rehabilitate its distribution system, where losses are in
excess of 30X of gross generation and the quality of service is poor and eroding. In
order to address these problems, under ESL II, GOP would develop a financial and
organizational restructuring plan for KESC.
1.30     As the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) was expected to assume an
expanded role in exploration and development during the Sixth Plan, GOP agreed under
ESL I to strengthen its managerial capabilities and move towards financial
self-refinance.  Accordingly, the corporation's investment program for FY86-88 was
rationalized and, more recently, a decision was made to remove OGDC from the budget
and reorient its operations along commercial lines. As this decision would require
strengthening the Corporation's financial capabilities, GOP has agreed under ESL II
to implement a financial restructuring plan for OGDC, increase the wellhead price of
gas to OGDC to enable the Corporation to achieve agreed internal cash generation
targets and, as an interim measure, provide in the form of loans, resources required
for OGDC's investment program.
1.31     The office of Exiergy Planning (ENERPLAN) was established under ESL I with
USAID financing. In 1986, ENERPLAN was merged with the existing Energy Wing in MPD.
Since its establishment, the Energy Wing has been involved in all aspects of planning,
including the preparation of the energy chapter of the Seventh Plan.  It has also
successfully served as the main interlocutor between the Bank and GOP under ESL I as
well as coordinator of all energy sector entities under that operation, a function it



- 9 -
would retain under ESL II. Despite the significant progress, the Energy Wing has made
in developing expertise in plan formulation, project appraisal, and in establishing
data bases, it continues to remain weak in the areas of financial and economic
analysis. There are also uncertainties surrounding the status of its existing staff
as they were hired as contract personnel rather than full time regular employees of
GOP, a situation which could impair future continuity in terms of its staff and its
role. Therefore, under ESL II, GOP is required to: (a) absorb the suitable existing
contract personnel of the Energy Wing as regular employees of GOP on a permanent basis;
and (b) create additional positions within the Energy Wing for a Finance and Economic
Section headed by a Chief and supported by at least two positions each for financial
|       analysts and economists.
1.32     Environmental Aspects.  Following the approval of the Pakistan Environmental
I       Protection Ordinance in 1983, GOP established the office of Environmental and Urban
Affairs Division in the Ministry of Housing and Works.  Similar provincial agencies
have been established in Punjab and Sind, and steps are currently being taken to
establish these in Baluchistan and North West Frontier Province.   Despite this
progress, actions need to be initiated to address the prevailing environmental
problems.   Therefore, under ESL II, GOP would develop a monitorable ongoing
Environmental Action Plan which would include: (a) adoption of selected environmental
standards for energy projects; (b) adoption of environmental impact assessment
guidelines; (c) further development of environmental capacity in key institutions in
the sector; and (d) adoption of improved health and safety and emergency management
standards. In the meantime the standards consistent with World Bank guidelines are
being followed.
E. Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and
Experience with Past Lending
1.33     The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in 1955,
with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station. Since then, it
has assisted in the implementation of projects in all energy subsectors.  Prior to
1985, the Bank Group had made 16 loans/credits to Pakistan for energy projects. In
the power subsector, the Bank had participated in the Indus Basin Development Projects,
and provided a series of four credits/loans to KESC and three to WAPDA.   In the
petroleum subsector, the Bank's involvement included five loans to Sui Northern Gas
Pipeline Ltd. (SNGPL) for the expansion of the infrastructure for the transmission and
distribution of gas, three to OGDC for exploration and development of oil and gas and
one to the National Refineries Ltd. for improving its energy efficiency. All of these
loans/credits have been completed, except for SNGPL V (Loan 2324-PAK) and the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (Loan 2351-PAK), both of which are being implemented
satisfactorily despite an initial delay in startup.
1.34     In addition to ESL I and ESL II, the Bank has made seven loans in the energy
sector since 1985. These include: WAPDA IV and V (Loans 2499-PAK and 2556-PAK) tor
the least cost expansion and reinforcement of the secondary and high voltage
transmission grid; the Petroleum Resource Joint Venture Project (Loan 2553-PAK) to
assist GOP in mobilizing PS involvement in exploration and development of oil and gas;
the Kot Addu Combined Cycle Power Project (Loan 2698-PAK) to add another 250 MW of
generating capacity through the conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle
operation; the Power Plant Efficiency Improvement Project (Loan 2792-PAK) for the
rehabilitation of existing power plants and conversion of combustion turbines to
combined cycle operation; the Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan
2218-PAK) for restructuring product output and streamline existing systems; and t'he



- 10 -
Private Sector Energy Development Project (Loan 2982-PAK), the first of its kind to
be approved by the Bank.
1.35     The proposed Project would be the Bank's eighth operation with WAPDA and the
first to support the extension of the distribution network in rural areas. The first
three have been completed and the remaining four are being implemented satisfactorily.
The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and the Project Completion Report (PCR)
for the Third Power Project (Loan 968-PAK and SAC 39-PAK) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in April 1989.   The PPAR concluded that the project not only
improved the supply of electricity, but also all aspects of WAPDA's operations
including administration, technical and financial. Despite these achievements, the
project was completed three years behind schedule.    Similar delays  also were
experienced in the two previous projects.  These are attributable to delays in the
appointment of consultants, the award of contracts and clearance of PC-1 documents,
as well as the periodic scarcity of local funds. In order to minimize delays in start-
up, the Bank, under subsequent operations, has assisted WAPDA in preparing standard
bidding documents and has provided training to its staff in the Bank's procurement
procedures. Moreover, through the sectoral approach to lending, which was initiated
under ESL I, the Bank has also been able to reduce slippages in project implementation
stemming from resource constraints 'para 1.15).   This approach is being continued
through the CIP agreed to under the ESL II.
II. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization
2.01     WAPDA, the Beneficiary of the Bank Group funds, was established in 1958 as
a semi-autonomous agency to coordinate the development of Pakistan's water and power
resources. It is divided into two largely independent 'wings' one for Power and the
other for Water.  The Power Wing is responsible for the planning, construction and
operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout
the country, except the Karachi area which is served by KESC (para 1.12). The Water
Wing is responsible for the overall planning and investigation of water resources, and
the design and construction of surface and groundwater development projects for the
federal and provincial governments.   WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the
"Authority", consists of a chairman and three members who are in charge of power, water
and finance, and are designated Member (Power), Member (Water) and Member (Finance),
respectively. The members are appointed by GOP and function as chief executives of
their respective groups.
2.02     The organization of the Power Wing, which for convenience is herein referred
to as WAPDA, is shown in Annex 2.1.  Member (Power) is assisted by seven general
managers in charge of thermal generation, hydel generation, transmission and grid
stations, distribution, finance, coordination and planning, system operation and load
dispatch and inventory control. Although WAPDA is highly centralized with respect to
decision-making, its distribution department is divided into eight Area Electricity
Boards (AEBs), which were established in 1981 to take over the responsibility for local
electricity service. Each AEB has a chairman, who is the chief engineer for the area,
appointed by WAPDA for a five-year term; three full-time members, who are also
directors in charge of departments; and three part-time members representing local
interests, one of whom is normally a representative of the Provincial Government. The
members of AEBs are appointed for a period of three years.



- 11 -
2.03     In October 1988, WAPDA had about 150,300 employees; 4,320 engineers, 980
other professionals, 11,230 technical and other staff, 28,030 administrative and
accounts staff, 69,430 skilled workers and about 36,310 other employees including
unskilled workers. The number of consumers served by WAPDA in that same year was abouit
5.7 million,  representing about 38 consumers per employee.   The relatively low
consumer/employee ratio reflects the overstaffing of the distribution department. The
inefficiencies resulting from this overstaffing, together with the relatively high
level of losses in distribution, stemming from inadequate investments in the past, are
contributing to substantial losses in revenues and denying WAPDA the resources required
for implementing an expanded investment program. Although the agreement reached under
ESL II on the establishment of a self-contained distribution wing within WAPDA is
designed to address these issues (para 1.28), WAPDA, in addition, to the improvements
made to its transmission system which reduced losses from 27% to 24X (para 4.05), is
currently rehabilitating and reinforcing its distribution system with a loan of US$55
million equivalent provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and a comparable grant
provided by USAID (para 2.06). The proposed Project has also a component (paras 2.11
and 3.02(d)) for rehabilitating and reinforcing the rural distribution system, and i:
is estimated that losses would be considerably reduced by the end of Project
implementation.
Existine Facilities
2.04     In January 1989, WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was 6,149 W.
About one-third of this capacity (1,710 MW) was commissioned during the last three
years of the Sixth Plan (FY86-FY88) when slippages in project implementation were
minimized through agreement on a CIP (para 1.15).   The existing generating system
consists of 2,897 MW (47%) of hydel capacity and 3,252 MW (53%) of thermal capacity
based mainly on fuel oil and gas. WAPDA's primary transmission system consists ef
1,614 km of 500-kV lines and 4 grid stations whose aggregate capacity is about 3,600
MVA. The secondary transmission system consists of 20,116 km of 220-kV, 132-kV and
66-kV lines and 822 grid stations, with a total capacity of about 15,881 MVA. The
distribution system consists of 33-kV, 11-kV and 0.4-kV lines.
Load Manaaement
2.05     Despite the substantial increase in generating capacity between FY86 and
FY89,  load-shedding continues.   In June 1988,  the shortfall between demand and
generating capability was about 1000 MW.   Although load shedding is expected cc
continue well into the mid-1990s, the projected increase in the installed capacity by
the private and public sectors (para 2.09) and the better management of the demand
through price and non-price measures are expected to reduce the capacity shortages
during dry season to about 600 MW by FY93. In the area of pricing, GOP has agreed
under ESL II on the adjustments in the level and structure of tariffs and on the
introduction of peak/off-peak pricing for 300 of the largest industrial consumers of
electricity (paras 4.03 and 4.04). As for non-price measures, GOP plans to continue
direct curtailment of supply to major industrial and agricultural consumers on the
basis of an agreed schedule to allow consumers to adjust their activities and rotate
load-shedding to household consumers.   In addition,  under the Private Tubewell
Development Project, WAPDA is implementing a pilot program to assess the technical and
economic viability of restricting tubewell operations through ripple control, time
switches and splitting and controlling residential and tubewell load by phases.
Provision has been made under the proposed project for the installation of:   (a)
specially designed meters required to introduce peak/off-peak pricing for 300
industrial and bulk consumers; and (b) the equipment proven viable for restricting the
operations of tubewells (para 3.03(b)).



- 12 -
Power Planning
2.06     Power system planning is carried out in-house by WAPDA's staff.  The first
national least-cost generation expansion program was formulated under the Fourth Power
Project with the assistance of Argonne National Laboratory (ANL, a US agency) under
financing from UNDP with the Bank as the executing agency. In addition, training was
provided to WAPDA's staff by ANL, under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, in the use of MAED and the Wein Automatic System Planning computer models,
which were installed on WAPDA's computer in early 1986.  This has enabled WAPDA to
revise the least cost program, as and when needed, to incorporate the updated
information on the operation of the subsector including hydrology, water management
and pattern of the electricity consumption. Transmission and distribution planning
is also carried out on an ongoing basis by WAPDA's staff and consultants recruited as
and when needed.    CIDA has  assisted WAPDA  since  1974  in developing  in-house
capabilities for the 500-kV network and, under a Distribution Development Program
(DDP), USAID is presently strengthening the distribution planning function.
Traininz
2.07     Training in WAPDA is a separate activity and is well-supported.  Each of the
main functions, generation, transmission and distribution operate technical training
schools in a number of locations, which are efficiently run. There is a Management
Training Centre at Tarbela which provides a comprehensive list of training courses.
For training in specialized areas, support has been provided to WAPDA by bilateral and
multilateral agencies. As noted, CIDA has provided extensive training to WAPDA's staff
in planning, design, construction, and operation and maintenance of the 500-kV network;
USAID in the area of distribution; and the Bank in the areas of generation planning,
maintenance and spare-parts management and in financial and commercial areas.
Development Program
2.08     WAPDA's generation, transmission and distribution development programs for
the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods were reviewed by the Bank under ESL II with respect
to size,  composition and status of preparation of projects,  and implementation
capabilities of WAPDA.   On the basis of this review, a CIP, covering the period
FY89-FY93, was outlined, which represents the maximum program to be implemented during
this period (para 1.16).   Based on the availability of financial resources,  the
projects to be implemented by WAPDA were identified and the balance was earmarked for
implementation by PS. This CIP would receive priority in terms of resources and its
implementation would be monitored by the Bank on an annual basis.
2.09     Generation Program.   Based on the long-term least cost development plan,
WAPDA's generating capacity is forecast to increase by nearly 68% during the Seventh
Plan period, from 6,149 MW in January 1989 to about 10,308 MW in 1993.  During the same
period, an additional 2,300 MW (approximately) capacity is expected to be installed
by PS. The units that are scheduled to come on stream by 1994 are as follows:



- 13 -
Seventh Plan Period
Unit     Totat
Capacity  Capacity
Plant Name    Plant Tyve    Comm. Date  Unit Number   (MW)  (MW)
WAPDA
Tarbela     Hydro        1993      11 through 14   432    1728
Mangla      Hydro         1993     9 and 10       100      200
Chashma      Hydro       1994      1 through 22   12.3     271
Jamshoro    Steam        1990      1 through 3    210      630
Jamshoro    Steam        1991      4              250      250
Mutaffargarh   Steam     1992-93    1 through 3   210      630
Guddu       Combined Cycle  1993   1              300      300
Lakhra      FBC          1992      3               50      150
Subtotal   4159
KESC
gen Qasim                 1989     3 through 5    210      630
Subtotal           630
Private Sector
Hab River   Steam        1993      4              323     1292
Habibullah 1   Steam     1993      2             16.5      33
Habibullah 2   Steam     1993      2             16.5      33
Intrag      FBC          1992      1 and 2        45       90
Nooriabad   Diesel       1991-92    1 through 6    21      126
PakLand     FBC          1992      1 through 3    44       132
Deutsche Babcock Steam   1993      1               88      88
Hadson      Steam        1993      1              55       55
Hub Choki   Steam        1993      1              120      120
Fauji       Steam        1993      1              300      300
Subtotal   2269
Total    7058
2.10     Transmission Program.  Major hydro resources are located in the north and
thermal facilities and load centers are concentrated in the center and the south.
Hence, for the efficient evacuation of electricity over long distances, in the early
1970s WAPDA initiated the implementation of a least cost national prgram for the
development of an extra high voltage (EHV) network to connect the major generating
plants to the main load centers in the country with the 500-kV grid. The first EHV
line between Tarbela and Faisalabad was completed in 1977.   Since then, furthet
sections have been successively built southwards with assistance from CIDA and the Bank
(Loans 1208T-PAK and 2556-PAK).   Presently, three EHV lines are in operation and
another two are under implementation.  The 500-kV lines in operation include:   two
routes between Tarbela and Faisalabad; and one between Faisalabad and Jamshoro via
Multan and Guddu.   Those under implementation include two additional 500-kV lines
between Tarbela and Lahore and between Lahore and Jamshoro via Sahiwal, Multan, Guddu
and Dadu. The Tarbela-Lahore and Lahore-Jamshoro lines are expected to be completed
by 1991 and 1992 respectively. In addition to completing the ongoing projects, WAPDA's
CIP for FY89-93 calls for the installation of: two single circuit 500-kV lines betweer.
Hab Power Complex in Baluchistan and Jamshoro; a third single circuit 500-kV line
between Guddu and Multan; and a second single circuit 500-kV line between Multan and
Lahore.
2.11     Distribution and Rural Electrification Program. WAPDA's original distribution
development plan had called for investments in loss reduction, load management and the
expansion and reinforcement of the low voltage networks in urban and rural areas. In
addition to the urban distribution system, the program called for connecting 15,000



- 14 -
new villages and 35,000 tubewells during the Seventh Plan period. In the context of
ESL II, these targets wete reviewed and found to be large relative to the availability
of resources. As a result the program was revised. The targets were reduced to 11,700
villages/settlements and 27,000 tubewells and the phasing of expenditure was realigned
by extending the period required to implement this program from five to seven years.
The revised program constitutes the CIP for RE.   The CIP for urban distribution
includes ADB's loan of US$55 million equivalent, and USAID's grant of an almost
comparable amount which have been earmarked for the rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the distribution network aimed at considerably reducing the high losses of the
network.
Rural Electrification
2.12     In 1958, when WAPDA was established, only about 609 villages and settlements
in the country had access to electricity from the grid. Since then, WAPDA las been
undertaking annual programs for RE, and by FY89 had provided electricity to about 37%
of the 45,000 villages and 32% of the 80,000 settlements in the country. Much of this
increase is attributable to the priority accorded by GOP in the Fifth and Sixth Plans
to RE.  The objectives were to provide:  (a) a network of trunk lines not only to
electrify villages but also to encourage farmers to install additional tubewells for
irrigation pumping; (b) power to agro-based industries to create employment
opportunities for the rural population; and (c) power in large villages to encourage
the establishment of small and medium-sized industries to stem the flow of the rural
population to urban areas.  For the purpose of rural electrification, a village is
defined as consisting of settlements (Deh or Taluka) having minimum of 25 houses or
200 people.
2.13     In response to the priority accorded by GOP, the pace of RE was accelerated
by WAPDA. Although the number of villages and settlements connected on an average
annual basis was increased from about 400 between FY6C and FY79 to about 1,800 between
FY80 and FY89, the targets of the Fifth and Sixth Plan were not fully achieved for the
following reasons. First, the extension of the rural network was carried out in the
absence of a rural electrification master plan (REMP) and as a result villages were
selected on criteria other than those required to achieve the targets at least cost.
Second, as WAPDA's power and water wings were both involved in the expansion and
distribution network the former for the supply of electricity to villages including
tubewells and the latter for irrigation pumping, and there was minimal coordination
between the two wings, high and low priority lines were implemented concurrently.
Third, the targets of the RE programs were ambitious relative to the availability of
resources and as a result there were substantial slippages in implementation, in that
service was provided to less than 50Z of the potential consumers. Finally, as the RE
and irrigation pumping programs were not fully coordinated with the expansion of
generating capacity, whose commissioning was also delayed due to resource constraints,
extensive load-shedding was experienced and some completed lines were not energized.
These shortcomings, unless addressed in a systematic fashion, would further erode the
quality of service and reliability of supply, particularly in view of the envisaged
expansion of the rural network.
2.14     As a first step toward addressing these constraints, a CIP for RE has been
prepared whose targets are consistent with the availability of resources (para 2.11).
In addition, consultants were appointed by GOP in December 1987 under USAID financing
to prepare an REMP.  Their terms of reference, which were approved by GO   WAPDA, USAID
and the Bank, called for completing the task in two phases. In Phase I, the existing
procedures, practices and criteria for connecting new villages were to be reviewed
along with the availability of detailed and reliable information, at a minimum, on:



-15 -
(a) the number and type (domestic, commercial tubewells, etc.) of potential consumers
and their spatial dispersion; and (b) the location of feeders and the distances between
these and the potential consumers.   In this context, special attention was to be
accorded to:  (a) the definition of a village/settlement; (b) the establishment of
criteria for selecting villages/settlements to be electrified; (c) the technical
options for providing electricity, such as single or three phase service, distribution
equipment, connection to national grid vs isolated systems, etc.; and (d) institutional
responsibility for planning, implementing and operating the distribution system. In
Phase II, a comprehensive data base of all villages/settlements was to be developed,
incorporating the parameters established in Phase I. This data base was to provide
the inputs needed for ranking villages/settlements and for the formulation of a long-
term least cost REKP. Phase I of REMP was completed in September 1988, and reviewed
by GOP, WAPDA, USAID and the Bank and found satisfactory. One of its findings is that
villages/settlements and feeders would have to be mapped because the available
information is inadequate for developing the data base for the ranking of
villages/settlements. The work on the mapping of feeders is being carried out under
the USAID-financed DDP (para 2.06), but has yet to be initiated for the mapping of
villages.   Provision has been made under the proposed Project for the mapping of
villages (para 3.03(a)). However, as this would require about three years to complete,
interim criteria are needed which would allow GOP to fully realize the benefits of RE
(para 3.08).
III.  THE PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
3.01     The main objective of the proposed Project is to assist GOP in improving rural
productivity and the quality of life of the rural population, the subgroup that has
benefitted the least from the improvements in the country's economic performance over
the past decade.  In addition, it would assist in:  (a)  rationalizing investments
for RE; (b) establishing a long-term framework for extending the rural network at least
cost; (c) capturing the benefits of investments already made, while improving the
reliability and quality of service and reducing network losses; and (d) minimizing the
generating capacity shortfalls through the better management of load. To achieve these
objectives WAPDA has agreed to execute the proposed Project according to an
Implementation Program (IP - para 6.02(a)), the actions of which are discussed under
relevant headings in this chapter.
Proiect DescriRtion
3.02     The proposed Project covers GOP's 7-year (FY89-96) CIP for RE and consists
of two components: (a) infrastructure development; and (b) technical assistance.
A. Infrastructure Development. This would include:
(a)   extending electricity supply to new villages and settlements;
(b)   connecting to the grid settlements in close proximity of already electrified
villages (back-filling);
(c)   expanding  consumer  connections  in  already  electrified  villages  and
settlements;
(d)   reinforcing and rehabilitating the existing rural distribution network; and



- 16 -
(e)   extending electricity supply to tubewells located within the project area.
B. Technical Assistance. This would provide for:
(a)   mapping of all villages and settlements in the country;
(b)   installing load management schemes; and
(c)   consultancy services.
3.03     Details relating to the above components are given below.
A. Infrastructure Development
The proposed Project, through extension of the network in about 6,700 villages
and 5,000 settlements, back-filling, intensification, and rehabilitation of
the existing rural distribution network would supply electricity to about 1.2
million domestic and commercial consumers, about 27,000 tubewells and 12,000
small industrial consumers. This would involve the supply, construction and
erection of about 580 km of 33-kV lines, 28,000 km of 11-kV lines, 16,000 km
of single and three-phase low voltage (230 V and 400 V) lines and about 510
(33/0.4-kV) and 51,000 (11/0.4-kV) distribution transformers with a total
capacity of about 1,500 MVA (Annex 3.6).
B. Technical Assistance
(a)   Mapping of Villages and Settlements.  In Phase I of REMP, the adequacy of
available data on the size and location of villages, composition of consumers
in these villages, distance between villages and feeders, etc., required for
preparing the long-term least cost investment program for RE was assessed
(para 2.14). As these data were found to be inadequate, under the proposed
Project, WAPDA would be required to collect the necessary data, complete the
mapping of the feeders, villages and settlements, and formulate a REMP. Under
USAID financing the mapping of feeders is being undertaken.   The proposed
Project would provide funds fo. the mapping of villages and settlements in
the country to complement the work currently being implemented under financing
from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF). Since this information
is critical to the formulation of a long-term least cost REMP. WAPDA agreed
to complete end submit to the Bank Group for review and comment, not later
than December 31. 1993. the REMP (para 6.02(b)). In addition. WAPDA agreed
as Dart of the IP to prepare and furnish for approval to the Bank Group not
later than September 30. 1990. a timetable for completion of the mapping of:
(i) electric power feeder lines: and (ii) the unsurveyed villages and
settlements within the territory of the Borrower (Rara 6.02(a)).
(b)   Load Management.  Under the Private Tubewell Development Project, WAPDA is
implementing a pilot project to assess the viability of various technical
options for restricting the operation of tubewells during peak periods (para
2.05). In addition, under ESL II, WAPDA has agreed to install in 300 of the
largest electricity consuming industrial plants, special meters required to
introduce peak/off-peak pricing (para 4.04). Under the proposed Project funds
would be provided for the installation of: (i) the proven devices for load
management on 27,000 tubewells; and (ii) the 300 special meters to introduce
peak/off-peak pricing. In view of the need for minimizing the shortfall in



- 17 -
generating capacity, WAPDA agreed as Rart of the IP to:  (i) issue by July
1. 1990. the bidding documents for 300 speciallv designed meters for peak/off-
peak pricing: and (ii) review by June 30. 1991, the results of the pilot
Drogram for load management and submit to the Bank Group by December 31. 1991:
(a) its recommendations regarding the equipment to be employed to restricting
the operations of tubewells: and (b) an action plan for the installation of
such eguipment. beginning January 31. 1993 (Rara 6.02(a)).
(c)   Consultancy Services.  These would be required for:  (i) mapping of villages
and settlements; (ii) detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents
and construction supervision of the proposed Project; (iii) the automation
of WAPDA's accounting and financial information systems; and (iv) an actuarial
study of the self-insurance scheme of the utility.
Project Costs
3.04     The  total  cost  of  the  proposed  Project,  including  physical  and price
contingencies, is estimated at about US$662 million equivalent, of which taxes and
duties amount to about US$136 million. The total financing required for the proposed
Project, including interest during construction of about US$54 million equivalent, is
about US$715 million. Of the total financing required about US$325 million would be
in foreign exchange and about US$390 million equivalent in local costs.   The cost
estimates are based on prices paid by WAPDA for similar goods and services, and reflect
June 30, 1989 prices. Escalation of local cost is assumed at 9% for FY90, 7% for FY91,
5% for FY92 through FY94, and 3.5% for FY95. Escalation of foreign cost is assumed
at 3.8% for FY90 and 3.5% for the period FY91-FY95. A provision of 15% of the base
cost has been made for physical contingencies'/, which is considered adequate for
projects of this nature. Total price escalation amounts to about 11.0% of the base
cost and physical contingencies. A summary of the project cost is presented in Table
3.1 and detailed estimates are given in Annex 3.11.
Table 3.1 :  Proiect Cost Estimetes
Rs Mi((ion                    US S Million
Proiect Component       LocaL     Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign   Total
Al. ELECTRIFICATION   4,541.40   4,247=86    8,789.26   210.25   196.66   406.9'
A2. BACK - FILL         434.59    375.84      S10.43     20.12    17.40    37.52
A3. INTENSIFICATION     468.07    356.40      827.47     21.67    16.50    38.17
A4. REINFORCEMENT       154.44     179.49     333.93      7.15     8.31    15.46
81. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   _146.66  374.11    520.77      6.79    17.32    24.11
Base Cost             5.745.16   5,533.70   11.278.86    265.98   256.19   522.17
Physical Contingencies  811.38     783.45    1,594.83    37.56    36.26    73.82
Price Contingencies   1.401.92   1.367.71    2.769.63    33.19  _ 32.45    65.64
TOTAL PROJECT COST    7,958.46   7,684.86   15,643.32   336.73   324.90   661.63
Interest During Const.    1,269.00  0.00    1,269.00     53.68     0.00    53.68
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED  9,227.46   7,684.86   16,912.32  390.41   324.90   715.31
=========   ========   _========   ========  ======z =  ========
l/ Physical and price contingencies were not computed for FY89, as expenditures in t-hat year had
already been incurred by the time the proposed Project was appraised.



- 18 -
Proiect Financing
3.05     The Bank loan of US$123 million and IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million (US$37
million equivalent) would be made to GOP and onlent to WAPDA at 11% per annum repayable
under the same terms as the Bank loan, twenty years including a five-year grace period.
GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The Bank Group operation would cover about
43X of the foreign exchange and 5X of the local cost requirement of the proposed
Project. The financing plan for the proposed Project is summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Proiect Finencim Plan
--Rs Mitlion------  -----USS Million-----
Local  Foreign TotaL  LocaL Foreign Total
Proposed IBRD Loan    260  2,648  2,908   11    112  123
Proposed IDA Credit   236   638   874   10        27   37
OECF Loan             993  2,845  3,838   42    120  162
USAID Grant            -   1,322  1,322    -      56   56
ADB Loan               -    232   232    -        10   10
Customers' Contribution   2,484  -   2,484  105   -    105
WAPDA                4,587    -   4,587  194      -    194
Local Borrowings      667    -    667   28        -    28
TOTAL              9,227  7,685  16,912  390    325  715
OECF, ADB and USAID, with whom agreements have already been concluded, would together
finance the remaining 57% of the foreign exchange requirement and an additional 11%
of the local cost requirement.  Of the remaining balance in local cost requirement
amounting to US$327 million equivalent, about US$105 million would be financed from
consumer contributions (Annex 4.4), US$194 million equivalent from WAPDA's internal
sources and US$28 million from local borrowings. It is important to note that, as the
proposed Project is part of the CIP for FY89-93, the local borrowings under the project
are part of WAPDA's overall borrowing program.
Proiect PreRaration and Village Selection Criteria
3.06     On the basis of Phase I of REMP, a Policy Paper was prepared by WAPDA which
outlines its interim strategy for rural electrification and forms the basis for the
proposed Project and for meeting USAID's conditions precedent which would allow the
Agency to release the funds already committed and earmarked for GOP's RE program. The
Bank and USAID have reviewed the Policy Paper and found it satisfactory. In addition,
OECF has also accepted the criteria recommended by the Policy Paper on the basis of
which villages to be electrified under the proposed Project would be selected.
3.07     In preparing the proposed Project for appraisal by the World Bank, WAPDA
prepared a preliminary list of about 4,000 candidate villages for electrification.
A comparable list was also prepared for OECF.   These lists contain information
regarding the name, location (province, district, AEB, and tehsil) and populaticn of
each village, but do not contain the distance of the villages from the existing medium
voltage (MV) grid. Since these lists would be used to select the villages that would
be electrified during the first two years of project implementation, WAPDA is in the
process of completing the missing information and this would be completed by March 31,
1990.
3.08     The criteria for selection of villages to be electrified under GOP's RE
program have been reviewed in detail between GOP, WAPDA, the Bank, OECF and USAID in
order to develop, in the absence of a REMP, interim criteria which would recognize
large provincial disparities regarding population density, area and morphology of



- 19 -
terrain, income distribution, etc. On the basis of these reviews the set of criteria
formulated by WAPDA in the Policy Paper have been modified. In view of the prevailing
resource constraints which augment the need for the more efficient utilization and
better targeting of the available resources. WAPDA agreed to select for electrification
under the proposed Project. in a given year. only those villages which shall have an
overall country-wide ratio (I/K) of inhabitants (I) to distance in kilometers (K) from
the MV grid of not less than 24 and which satisfy the following additional criteria:
(i) for villages in the Provinces of Puniab and Sind. each village shall have a
population of not less than 200 inhabitants and shall not be more than 6 kilometers
from the MV grid: and (ii) for villages in the North West Frontier Province, each
village shall not be more than 20 kilometers from the MV grid and all such villages
shall have an overall province-wide ratio of not less than 24.   In addition, and
notwithstanding the above mentioned Provisions, any settlement shall be eligible for
electrification under the proposed Project if it has not less than 200 inhabitants and
is not more than one (1) kilometer away from the MV grid (paras 6.02(a) and (c)).
3.09     Design and Engineering.   The distribution equipment and materials used by
WAPDA and the typical construction designs of distribution facilities are standardized.
However, WAPDA has been using steel lattice poles in all its distribution networks.
These would cost about 33X more than heavy prestressed concrete poles and about 44%
more  than  lighter  ones.    Furthermore,  the  capacity  of  the  smallest  standard
distribution transformer is 25 kVA which is used for as little as only 9 kVA demand
of tubewell motors. To reduce the cost of constructing distribution systems, WAPDA
agreed to implement the proposed Project by undertaking.  as part of the IP.  the
following: (i) limit the use of steel lattice poles to areas which are unsuitable for
concrete poles:  (ii)  design and test.  not later than December  31.  1991.  light
prestressed concrete poles which are more suitable for conductors of a size not greater
than 100 square millimeters: (iii) complete a study. not later than December 31. 1990.
to assess the advantages of employing 15 kVA distribution transformers and furnish the
findings and recommendations of the study to the Bank Group for review: and (iv) employ
33-kV primary distribution voltage in sparsely populated areas (para 6.02(a)).
Proiect Implementation
3.10     Implementation of the CIP for RE was initiated by WAPDA on July 1, 1988, with
equipment and materials drawn from stocks. According to WAPDA's projections about 18%
of the physical targets of CIP would be achieved by July 1, 1990. As shown in the
implementation schedule (Annex 3.12) the proposed Project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1995.   The project document (PC-1) for the proposed Project has been
updated by WAPDA to reflect the real.gnment in the phasing of expenditures agreed to
under ESL II (para 2.08) and is expected to be submitted shortly to ECNEC for approval.
ECNEC's approval of the PC-1 document for the proposed Project has been set as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Group operation (para 6.03).
3.11     To date, RE programs have been implemented by AEBs in their respective areas
with the assistance of construction contractors.  However, the overstaffing of the
distribution department has weakened control and accountability and resulted in
inefficient work practices. In particular, greater attention has been accorded to
meeting the targets of connecting new consumers than to established technical
standards, the mapping and recording of the network and the collection of data required
for planning and improving the rural distribution network.   Although measures to
improve the efficiency of the distribution function are being implemented under the
USAID-financed DDP, their impact is unlikely to be immediate (para 2.06). Therefore.
as part of the IP. WAPDA agreed to aRpoint consultants. in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, for the detailed engineering. preparation of bidding documents and work



-20 
orders, supervision of construction. performance of acceptance tests, review and
approval of as-built stake-sheets and issuance of certificate for payments (para
6.02(a)). The arrangements for the implementation of the proposed Project call for:
(i) WAPDA to prepare the lists of villages to be considered for electrification, rank
such villages in descending order of inhabitants per kilometer ratio (I/K), select the
villages to be electrified under the proposed Project, and furnish to the Bank Group
at the end of each year the list of villages electrified pursuant to the agreed
selection criteria (para 3.08); and (ii) the consultants to report to the Project
Directors in the AEBs who will be responsible for supervising all movement of stock,
approving payments and reporting the status of project implementation and quantity of
materials used to the Chief Engineer, Construction Operations at WAPDA's headquarters.
The Chief Engineer, would be responsible for procuring materials and maintaining all
implementation data including quantity of materials used, cost of materials and
erection, number of villages / settlements electrified and each type of consumer
connected.   The chief engineer will also be responsible for reporting to the Bank
Group.   The procedures for the implementation of the proposed Project have been
reviewed by the Bank Group and found satisfactory. To ensure, however, timely Project
implementation and reporting of progress status WAPDA agreed as part of the IP to:
(i) select the villages to be considered for electrification under the proposed Project
in FY91 and FY92 from the preliminary list of villages submitted to the Bank Group in
May 1989 and furnish to the Bank Group the final list of villages electrified not later
than October 31, 1991. and 1992 respectively: (ii) prepare lists of villages to be
considered for electrification under the proposed Project after FY92 and submit them
to the Bank Group for review and comment not later than March 31 of each such year:
and (iii) furnish to the Bank Group, not later than October 31 of each year after 1992.
the final list of villages electrified in each such year (para 6.02(a)).
Procurement
3.12     Procurement of goods, works and services financed by the Bank Group would be
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts financed under this operation for the
supply of equipment and materials, except prestressed concrete poles, would be awarded
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for the construction and
erection of the proposed Project facilities would be awarded through ICB, with the
additional condition that, such contracts would be grouped into bid packages estimated
to cost each the equivalent of US$1.5 million or more. For purposes of bid comparison,
a preference limited to 15% of the CIF cost of imported goods, or the customs duty
applicable to a non-exempt importer, whichever is less, would be extended to responsive
local manufacturers.   In the procurement of works, WAPDA may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Prestressed concrete poles are not suitable for ICB, as their
transport over long distances is uneconomic, given their weight and susceptibility to
damage.   For this reason WAPDA is purchasing concrete poles for each EAB's entire
needs from the nearest manufacturing plant on the bisis of a negotiated five year term
contract.   Given that WAPDA continuously purchases poles from various plants, the
prices negotiated with each plant are reasonable and no further economy could be
achieved by procuring the purchase of such poles. Thus, the concrete poles which would
be needed to implement the proposed Project would be purchased by extending the
currently existing negotiated contracts. Spec:'al distribution equipment and materials
required for the proposed Project, not exceeding US$400,000 per contract and US$7
million in the aggregate, would be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB)
by inviting quotations from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to assure
competitive prices. As the suppliers of load management equipment are limited, such
equipment would also be procured through LIB. Local manufacturers are expected to bid
for about 90% of distribution equipment and materials. To ensure compliance with the



- 21 -
Bank's procurement guidelines, the first 15 bidding and contract documents for works
and goods financed under this operation would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Thereafter, only contracts estimated to cost US$3 million or more would be subject to
prior Bank review, with the remaining Bank-financed contracts being subject to a post-
award review.
3.13     Although the installation and erection of the proposed Project facilizieS
would be procured through ICB, WAPDA reserves to itself the erection of the consumer
service drop, as it involves the installation of the consumer's meter.    For this
reason, the proceeds of the Bank Group funds, not to exceed the sum of US$5 million
equivalent, will be used to finance WAPDA's force account. Procurement arrangements
for the proposed Project are shown in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangeents
(USS Million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Elements      ICB    LC8   LIB   Other'8 Total
Materials & Equipment  289     29    3        -    321
(67)    (7)  (3)       -    (77)
Erection & Civil Works  -       -     -      154   154
(40)  (40)
Service Drops           -       -     -       5b    5
(5)   (5)
Mobile Equipment        10      -     -        -    10
(9)     -     -        -     (9)
Load Management                 -    21       -    21
(15)     -    (15)
Meters                  5                -     -     5
(4)     -     -        -     (4)
Consultancy             -       -     -       1OLe  10
(10)  (10)
304     29    24      169   526 /d
(80)    (7)  (18)    (55)  (160)
La    Includes Local Bidding, WAPDA Force Account and Technical Services for which Bank guidelines for consultants
use would apply.
lb   WAPDA Force Account.
/c   Consultancy Services including mapping.
td   Net of taxes and duties.
Disbursements
3.14     The proceeds of the Loan and Credit would be disbursed against:  80% of the
cost of works, up to a maximum of US$40 million equivalent; 100% of the CIF cost of
imported goods or 100% of ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods subject
to ICB; 66% of the ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured prestressed concrete
poles; 80% of WAPDA's force account associated with service drops, up to a maximum of
US$5 million equivalent; and 100% of the cost associated with the mapping of villages
and consultancy services. Disbursements would be fully documented except for payments
against contracts not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent. Such disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation of which would not
be submitted to the Bank Group but retained for inspection by the supervision missions.
Standard procedures  for  auditing  SOEs would  apply.    In  order  to  facilitate
disbursements, a special account would be established in a commercial bank in Pakistan,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group. The initial deposit in the



- 22 -
special account would be US$5 million, representing the estimated average expenditures
for a four-month period on the items to be financed by the Bank Group.
3.15     The schedule of disbursements for the Bank Group operation is presented in
Annex 3.13.  The disbursement profile of the proposed Project is shorter than the
standard profile for distribution projects financed by the Bank Group, but represents
a reasonable profile, given that implementation of the program has been under way for
two years (para 3.10). The closing date for the Loan would be December 31, 1995, six
manths after the estimated physical completion of the proposed Project.
RetroactivedFinancin_
3.16     To expedite the implementation of the proposed Project, UAPDA would recruit
a local consultant to prepare the relevant bidding documents. The services of this
consultant, estimated at about US$150,000, would be financed retroactively under the
proposed Bank Group operation.
Environmental AsRects
3.17     The proposed Project is not expected to have a significant adverse impact on
the environment and vegetation, given the arid and semi-arid nature of the environment
and the highly developed settlement pattern which reduces the need for constructing
new roads for project implementation. However, in order to ensure that these issues
are addressed fully. WAPDA agreed to designate a senior staff at each AEB who would
be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the proposed Project in accordance
with the Bank Environmental Guidelines (Rara 6.02(d)).
Prolect Risks
3.18     The main risks associated with the proposed Project are:   (a) delays in
implementation arising from constraints on the availability of counterpart funds; and
(b) shortage of generating capacity.   Adequate provision is being made under the
proposed Project to minimize these risks. First, the targets of the RE program were
reduced and the phasing of expenditure was realigned to ensure consistency between the
targets of the proposed Project and the availability of resources. Agreements reached
under ESL II on a CIP, of which the proposed Project is an integral part, would ensure
that it would receive priority in terms of allocation of resources both foreign and
local. The measures to be implemented under the proposed Project would also ensure
that at a minimum 40X of WAPDA's CIP is financed from internal sources (para 4.03 and
4.14). Second, given that generating capacity shortages are expected to be reduced
to about 600 MW by FY93 and the 300 largest industrial consumers alone would have a
coincidental peak demand of about 1,200 MW, implementation of the load management
programs would allow WAPDA to meet the systems forecast demand without further
increases in load-shedding.
Project Monitoring
3.19     WAPDA will submit to the Bank quarterly reports,  covering the work of
consultants, physical progress, project costs, disbursements and administrative aspects
of the proposed Project.   In addition, it would also submit quarterly and annual
financial reports and other pertinent information to the Bank.   WAPDA would also
undertake to prepare and furnish to the Bank, within three months after the closing
date, or such later date, as will be agreed for this purpose, a Project Completion
Report of such scope and detail, as the Bank shall reasonably request.



-23 -
IV. FINANCES
Introduction
4.01     WAPDA's financial affairs are governed by the WAPDA Act which requires the
utility to operate along commercial principles and to generate sufficient revenues from
electricity sales to cover operating costs including depreciation and debt service and
achieve a reasonable return on investment. Under the First WAPDA Power Project (Credit
213-PAK), WAPDA agreed to achieve a rate of return of 8% on revalued average net fixed
assets in use. However, because of GOP's reluctance to revalue assets, this covenant
was replaced in FY76 under the Second WAPDA Power Project (Loan 1208-PAK) by an
internal cash generation (ICG) covenant. It required WAPDA to generate annually from
internal sources, 30% of the capital expenditures, averaged over the previous two years
and the current year without taking into account the changes in working capital. In
order to ensure that adequate local funds were available for the implementation of
WAPDA's expanding investment program, the ICG requirement was raised to 40% in FYQ0
under the Third WAPDA Power Project (Credit 968-PAK). In each of the following six
years, except FY85, WAPDA was able to comply with this covenant.   However, such
compliance was achieved at the expense of substantial slippages in its investment
program facilitated in part by the retrospective nature of the ICC formula which
encouraged GOP to postpone investments, rather than increase tariffs, to comply with
the covenant. It was in the context of these slippages and the accompanying shortfalls
in generating capacity that agreement was reached with GOP and WAPDA under ESL I on
a Rs 30 billion CIP for the period FY86-88. Furthermore, beginrning FY89 the formula
for computing ICG was changed, to consider the average of investments over the
previous, current and ensuing year as well as the changes in working capital other than
cash.
4.02     To finance WAPDA's investment programs, the Government has, in the past
extended rupee loans to WAPDA.   In a move to enhance the Authority's autonomy in
managing its financial affairs, GOP has stipulated that effective FY89, WAPDA would
not receive any rupee loans from C-OP's budget. Rather, WAPDA would have to borrow from
the local financial markets on the strength of its balance sheet and trading profile.
In view of the limits to the amount of borrowing 'WAPDA can undertake on its own and
given that the size of the local financial markets is small relative to the
requirements of the utility, WAPDA would implement a Financial Management
Implementation Plan (FMIP) in the areas of consumer contributions, security deposits
and accounts receivable that would increase the utility's ICG with moderate tariff
increases. In addition, in order to manage expanding investments and operations, and
accommodate the separation of the distribution function, the FMIP for WAPDA includes
strengthening its accounting systems and redefining its financial organization. These
actions are summarized in Annex 4.1 and discussed under the relevant headings in this
chapter.
Electricitv Pricing
4.03     WAPDA's average revenue includes a fuel adjustment surcharge (FAS) which is
calculated on the basis of the average fuel cost incurred in the 12-month period ending
two months prior to the month of billing.   Prior to FY87, the fuel surcharge was
applicable to all consumer categories other than residential and agricultural consumers
and WAPDA was unable to recover fully the cost incurred in a particular year.
Recognizing that this under-recovery of costs adversely affected the availabilitv of
local cost resources to implement the CIP, GOP extended the applicability of ,.
surcharge clauae to residential consumers consuming more than 300 kWh/month.  i o .r
to comply with the ICG covenant (para 4.06), WAPDA's tariffs were increased in each
of the years FY86-89 by an average of 6.5% per year in nominal terms, which, together



- 24 -
with the increase in revenues from the fuel surcharge has increased the average
revenue/kWh from Rs 0.74 in FY86 to Rs 0.94 in FY89.   Furthermore,  the Bank's
projections show that in order to comply with the financial covenant during FY89-93,
WAPDA's tariffs need to be increased annually by an average of 9.4% in nominal terms,
representing an annual increase of 1.8% in real terms based on an annual average
inflation of about 7.6%. In July 1988, GOP unified the tariffs of WAPDA and KESC as
a first step toward fully integrating the operations of the two systems and ensuring
equity among consumers of electricity throughout the country. The projected increases
in average revenues would raise the average tariff level for KESC and WAPDA's
integrated system from 74% of long-run marginal cost (LRMC) in FY89 to about 90% in
FY93 and to full parity by FY95, instead of FY92 as was originally projected during
the appraisal of ESL II. The delay in achieving parity with LRMC is largely due to
the higher than projected inflation levels in FY88 and FY89. Actual inflation was 8%
and about 12% in FY88 and FY89, respectively, compared to the projected rates of 6%
in FY88 and 9% in FY89. Consequently, the levels of real tariffs in FY88 and FY89 were
lower than projected. In order to meet the 40% cash generation target for FY90, GOP
has increased WAPDA's electricity tariffs by an average of 16% effective September 1,
1989, which would result in an average increase in tariffs for the entire year of about
12%.  Ir. addition, WAPDA has changed effective July 1, 1989, the fuel surcharge
recovery formula to enable the utility to recover nearly 100% of the fuel cost.
Preliminary estimates indicate that the recent tariff increases, together with the
enhanced recovery of the fuel cost for FY90 through the change in FAS, would enable
WAPDA to comply with the 40% ICG covenant for FY90.
4.04     Since the initiation of ESL I, GOP, WAPDA and KESC have taken several steps
to  rationalize  the  structure  of  electricity  tariffs  such  as  broadening  the
applicability of the fuel surcharge clause (para 4.03) and increasing the tariff for
agricultural  and household consumers by 21X compared with an 11%  increase for
industrial and bulk consumers in July 1988.  As a result, residential consumers who
account for 79% of connections and consume 35% of electricity sold, accounted for 29%
of the revenues in FY89, compared to 25% in FY88. Similarly, agricultural consumers
who account for just over 2% of the connections and consume 21% of electricity sold,
accounted for 15% of the revenues in FY89 compared to 11% in FY88.   In contrast,
industrial, commercial and bulk consumers who account for just over 16% of the
connections and consume 42% of electricity sold, accounted for 48% of the revenues in
FY89, compared to just over 57% in FY88.  There is still, however, a need for an
overall rationalization of the tariff structure. Therefore, GOP has agreed to increase
the agricultural tariffs at a higher rate than for other consumers in FY90 and FY91.
Accordingly, during the increases in tariffs effected in September 1989, (para 4.03),
the agricultural tariffs were increased by more than 27% compared to 14% for
residential, 9% for industrial and 15% for commercial consumers. Furthermore, as a
component of the proposed Project, peak/off-peak pricing would be introduced to the
300 largest industrial consumers, which account for about 20% of electricity sales,
by providing them with specially designed meters (para 3.03(b)). This would contribute
significantly to rationalizing electricity consumption during seasonal and daily peak
demand periods.



- 25 -
Past Operations
4.05     Financial statements showing WAPDA's performance during the period FY85-89
are presented in Annex 4.2 and summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1:  IPDA's Oeratirm Results. FYT8-FrD
FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88  FY89
kWh Generation (M)   18,780  21,055  23,630   27,451 29,084
kWh So'd (M)         13,756  15,504  17,745   20,702 22,221
System Losses CX)       27      26     25       25   24
Ave. Ravenue per kWh
Sold (incL. FAS)(Paisa)  64    74     70       83   94
Operating Rev. (Rs M)  8,992  11,760  12,588   17,623 21,314
Operating Exp. (Rs M)  6,473   7,816   8,800   11,732 13,113
Net Optng.Income (Rs N)   1,085   2,213   1,577    2,818  4,394
Int. Cash Gen. Ratio CX)  37   50      35       44   33
Rate of Return on Hist.
Valued Assets (X)    12.0   14.8   11.5      14.4  17.3
WAPDA's electricity generation increased from 18,780 GWh in FY85 to 29,084 GWh in FY89
averaging about 11.6% annually, as a result of increases in generating capacity from
4,339 MW in FY85 to 6,149 MW in FY89, all of which were thermal. WAPDA's electricity
sales during the period FY85-89 followed a pattern similar to that of generation,
increasing at an annual average rate of 12.7%. The higher rate of increase in sales
than in generation was due to the fact that WAPDA was able to reduce system losses froir
27% in FY85 to 24% in FY89 by extending and upgrading the transmission network, ana
by establishing the new thermal capacity closer to load centers. WAPDA's operating
revenues increased from Rs 8,992 million in FY85 to Rs 21,314 million in FY89
representing an average annual increase of 24%, while operating costs increased at an
average annual rate of only 19.3% during the same period. While the greater reliance
on thermal capacity and increases in the prices of fuel caused the fuel costs to
increase from 37% of total operating costs in FY85 to 48% in FY89, the steps initiated
in FY87 to recover a higher proportion of the fuel costs (para 4.03) was the major
reason for operating revenues increasing at a higher rate than costs. The proportion
of fuel costs recovered averaged 82% during the period FY87-89 compared to 62% in FY86.
4.06     Compared with the 40% ICG covenant agreed with the Bank under the Third WAPDA
Power Project (para 4.01), the ICG level was 37% in FY85 as a result of actual capital
expenditures being larger than planned without corresponding tariff increases.  Ir,
FY86, however, in accordance with the agreement reached under ESL I, initiation of
measures to ensure compliance with the ICG covenant, including a 9% across-the-board
increase in tariffs for all categories of consumers, resulted in an ICG level of 50%,
but in FY87, the ICG level dropped to 35% despite the broadening of FAS (para 4.03),
primarily because of a decline in revenues due to the introduction of flat rate tariffs
for agricultural consumers1' and a lower hydel generation than forecast.   In FY88,
following a 13.2% tariff increase, the ICG level reached 44%. However, for FY89, WAPDA
achieved an ICG level of 33% despite a tariff increase of 12.8% effective July 1, 1988.
The primary reason for the shortfall in ICG from the covenanted level of 40% is due
to the switchover from the retrospective to the prospective ICG formula (para 4.01).
Under the retrospective formula, the average 12.8% tariff increase would have resulted
1/ Prior to the introduction of flat rate tariffs for agricultural consumers in FY87, the expected
average revenue per kWh (including PAS) from this category of consumers was 61 paisas in Punjab/Sind
provinces and 47.4 in NWFP/Balucbistan provinces. Following the introduction of flat rate tariffs, the
corresponding average revenue/kWh realized, was 27.1 paisaa and 11.8 paisas, respectively, resulting in a
revenue reduction of about Rs 550 million.



- 26 -
in an ICC level of 44% for FY89. In view of the fact that asset commissioning closely
followed the CIP, variations in operating income were the main cause for fluctuations
in the utility's return on historically valued net fixed assets in use, from 12% in
FY85 to a low of 11.5% in FY87 and improving to 17.3% in FY89.
Consumer Contributions
4.07     During FY89, capital contributions collected from new consumers to defray the
cost of connecting them to the system amounted to Rs 1,297 million. The full cost of
connections is recovered from residential, commercial and industrial consumers.
However, from agricultural consumers only connection costs in excess of Rs 30,000, if
any, are recovered. Based on the 27,000 agricultural consumers to be connected to the
system under the proposed Project, WAPDA's unrecovered connection charges are estimated
at Rs 1.1 billion.  WAPDA, in order to operate along commercial principles (para 4.01),
should not be burdened with costs of carrying out GOP's social objectives. Instead,
WAPDA should be authorized to annually borrow either from GOP or from a COP designated
financial intermediary, an amount equal to the cost of connecting tubewells forecast
to be connected in accordance with the proposed Project. Thereafter, these connection
costs should be amortized and collected from the consumer over the economic life of
the tubewells, which is about seven years. Such a measure would: (a) not be a burden
on the agricultural consumer; (b) provide necessary funds to WAPDA to in fact carry
out the tubewell electrification; and (c) eliminate the financial burden on WAPDA.
Therefore. GOP has agreed to take by July 1. 1990. the necessary measures to enable
WAPDA to recover the connection costs from agricultural consumers over the economic
life of the tubewell (para 6.01(a)).
Cost Recovery of RE Operations
4.08     Of the three types of consumers to be connected to the WAPDA system under
the proposed Project, 96% are residential consumers, 3% agricultural consumers and 1%
industrial consumers.  The two types of costs that WAPDA would incur in adding the
above consumers to the system would be capital costs, i.e. costs of connecting them
to the system, and operating costs i.e., cost of supplying electricity. Capital costs
are being recovered in full from residential enid industrial consumers and an agreement
to recover the capital costs from agricultui.' consumers has been reached under the
proposed Project (para 4.07). As regards operating costs, WAPDA suffers losses in RE
operations because: (a) FAS is not applied to agricultural consumers and residential
consumers consuming less than 300 kWh/month; and (b) the tariffs are maintained at low
levels for both these categories of consumers for socio-political reasons.   For
instance, in FY89, the average tariff charged to the agricultural consumers was Rs
0.31/kWh in Punjab and Sind and Rs 0.19/kWh in NWFP and Baluchistan compared to the
average tariff of the entire WAPDA system of Rs 0.68/kWh. Therefore, there is a need
to implement measures to progressively recover a higher proportion of costs of RE
operations in order to enable WAPDA to function in accordance with sound commercial
principles.    However,  the  financial  costs  of RE operations  are presently not
identifiable because the accounts of RE operations are not maintained separately from
those of overall utility operations. In order to provide the basis for designing and
implementing measures to enhance the proportion of the costs of WAPDA's RE operations,
as a part of the FMIP. WAPDA has agreed to: (a) by July 1. 1990. initiate the process
of separating the accounts of RE operations from those of the utility's overall
accounts: and (b) beginning FY92. maintain seRarate accounts for RE oRerations
including preRaration of year-end financial statements. In addition. GOP agreed to
preRare. in consultation with the Bank Group. and furnish, by December 31. 1992. to
the Bank Group for review, an action plan to enable WAPDA to enhance the recovery of
costs of RE oRerations (para 6.02(e)).



- 27 -
Customer Security Deposits
4.09     Customer security deposits should be related to the current average billing
rates for each category of consumers. WAPDA's security deposits, which had not changed
since 1969, were adjusted in 1988. Despite this adjustment, the levels of security
deposits do not reflect current rates of billing.   If the security deposits were
adjusted to reflect the current average billing, the incremental cash flow to WAPDA
would be about Rs 500 million during the Seventh Plan at the projected tariff levels.
Therefore. WAPDA as a part of the FMIP. agreed to review the security deposit rates
at the end of each financial year and adjust them to reflect the ensuing year's average
billing for each category of consumers (para 6.02(e)).
Accounts Receivable
4.10     Accounts receivable as of March 31, 1989 amounted to Rs 4,510 million and
Rs 3,285 million of these are considered overdue, i.e., they are outstanding for more
than three months. Of the overdue accounts, Rs 1,568 million are from GOP departments
and agencies and the balance of Rs 1,717 million are from private consumers.
Receivables from private consumers represent about two months' average sales, and those
from GOP departments and agencies, 2.7 months' average sales. Under the Fourth WAPDA
Power Project (Loan 2499-PAK), COP is to ensure that receivables from its departments
and agencies are not more than three months' average sales to them. Overall, accounts
receivable represent 2.2 months' sales which is satisfactory, but a large portion of
the outstanding accounts is overdue and may be uncollectible as summarized in
Table 4.2.
Tabte 4.2: WAPDA's Aginaq of Receivables as of Narch 31. 1989
Up to  3-6    6 mos.  1-3    over
3 mos. mos.    1 year  years  3 Years  Total
Rs Million    1,225  725    757   878     925    4,510
X of total    27  16       17      19      21      100
WAPDA should identify and write-off the receivables deemed uncollectible and those
receivables outstanding for more than three years. WAPDA. as a part of the FMIP. has
agreed to carry out. by December 31. 1990. a comprehensive aging analysis of Its
accounts receivables and by June 30. 1991. adjust its accounts receivable on its
Balance Sheet to reflect only those receivables that are outstanding for less than
three years and those deemed collectible (Annex 4.1).  In addition. GOP agreed to cause
all federal and provincial governmental agencies and departments to settle all bills
for the supplv of electricity by WAPDA within three months of receipt of the bills
(Rara 6.04(a)).
4.11     At the end of FY89, WAPDA's debt/equity ratio was 58/42 compared to 52/48 at
the end of FY85 due to large investments during the period FY85-89 being financed from
debt. Despite the deterioration in the debt/equity ratio, the capital structure remains
satisfactory. Since FY88, WAPDA's local debt has comprised funds borrowed through tbe
issuance of bonds in the local financial markets with five-year maturities. Through
such bond issues, WAPDA was able to raise about Rs 3.1 billion in FY88 and Rs 5.7
billion in FY89. As these bonds can be encashed prematurely and WAPDA had not set up
a sinking fund to retire these bonds, the National Development Finance Corporatlon
(NDFC) has retained Rs 500 million from the bonds issued in FY89.  These funds are
being utilized by NDFC to discount the Bonds for any bond holder that wishes to encash
the Bonds prematurely. Such a mechanism provides liquidity to the bond holders, giving
hope to the possibility of a longer term maturity for any future instruments issued



- 28 -
on the domestic financial markets. In addition, WAPDA has now set up a sinking fund
to avoid steep increases in tariffs in the year of retiring the bonds, since the
repayment of bonds is a part of the debt service for that year. Nevertheless, in view
of the fact that bonds worth approximately Rs 8.8 billion are outstanding, the funds
set aside for carrying out discounting of bonds would become insufficient.   In
addition, in order to improve WAPDA's financial discipline and mitigate the need for
sharp tariff increases, there is a need for regular monitoring of the amounts set aside
in the sinking fund. Therefore. WAPDA as a part of the FMIP, has agreed to review with
the Bank Group, not later than June 30 of each year beginning with 1990, the
arrangements for setting aside amounts in a sinking fund to be used to retire the bonds
ssued by WAPDA in FY88 and FY89 (Para 6.02(e)).
Capital Expenditure Program and Financing Plan
4.12     WAPDA's capital expenditure program for the period FY90-95, covering the
project implementation period together with the annual phasing of expenditures for
ongoing and new projects is presented in Annex 4.4. The program and proposed financing
plan are summarized in Table 4.3 below. The first two years of this program constitute
the CIP agreed to under ESL II.
Table 4.3: UAPDAAs Capital Expenditure Prosram and Finaning Rew.uirements (FY90 - FY95)
Rs Million      USS Miltion      X_|
Requirements
Capital Investment:
Generation                  75,639            3,494         52
Transmission                21,377              987          15
Distribution                32.424             1.498        22
Subtotal                   129,440            5,979         89
Working Capital Increase          15.287              706         11
TotaL Requirements          144,727           6,685        100
Sources
Gross Internal Sources           144,067            6,654          -
Less: Debt Service a              79,292            3.662_
Net Internal Cash Generation      64,775            2,992         45
Borrowings:
Local Loans                 28,615             1,322        20
Foreign Loans               47,791             2,211        33
Proposed Loan                3,782              160          2
Total Borrowings            79,952            3,693         55
TotaL Sources                    144.27             6.685        100
/a Includes interest during construction and an annual payment of Rs 20 million payment to GOP
for assets earlier transferred to WAPDA.
4.13     The Bank has reviewed the investment and financing plan for its content, size
and allocation and found it satisfactory.   However, there is a need for an annual
review with the Bank of WAPDA's investment program during the Seventh Plan. Therefore.
WAPDA has agreed to review before May 15 of each year. its capital expenditure program
and financing Rlan for the ongoing and the ensuing year and agree with the Bank Group
on steps necessary for implementation (para 6.04(b).
Future Finances
4.14     Forecast balance sheets, income statements and sources and applications of
funds statements for the period FY90-95 are shown in Annex 4.2. A summary of forecast
operating results for this period are presented in Table 4.4.



- 29 -
Tdbte 4.4: WAPODAs Forecast Operatigg Resutts Fl90-95
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Generation (GWh)     33,806 33,711  38,293 43,294 50,151 53,767
Sales (GWh)          26,030 25,957 29,486 33,336 38,616 41,401
Ave. Revenue per
kWh Sold (paisa)     112.8  120.5  129.8  150.9  165.5  172.9
Operating Rev.(Rs N)  29,914 31,905 38,963 51,045 64,720 72,496
Operating Exp. (Rs M)  17,442  18,035  24,193 33,635 42,231 49,215
Net Income (Rs N)     8,175  8,887  9,742  12,459 17,726 18,287
Int. Cash Gen. Ratio (X)    40.8  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0
Rate of Return on Hist.
Valued Assets          22  20.7  19.0  19.5  21.9  19.3
Debt/Equity Ratio     55/45  52/48  49/51  45/55  44/56 43/57
Debt Service Coverage   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.9  1.8
WAPDA's financial projections are based on forecast increases in electricity generation
together with purchases from private sector power plants. Electricity generation and
sales are forecast to increase at an average annual rate of 9.7%. Under the ongoing
Bank Group operations, WAPDA agreed that it would generate each year from internal
sources 40% of its average capital expenditures. In order to ensure that sufficient
resources are available to im2lement WAPDA's caRital investment program. GOP and WAPDA
have agreed to take all necessary measures to enable VAPDA to generate for each year
from internal sources 40X of its caRital expenditures averaged over the previous.
ongoing and one ensuing year (para 6.04(c)).
4.15     In order to ensure that coverage of WAPDA's debt service coverage by gross
internal cash generation continues to be satisfactory, the debt limitation covenant
under ongoing Bank Group operations would be repeated under the proposed Project which
provides that WAPDA would consult with the Bank. should it incur new debt that would
result in its eross internal cash generation before debt service (including payment
to GOP) falling below 1.5 times the debt service recuirement (Dara 6.04(d)).
Accountir- Systems
4.16     WAPDA has about 400 accounting units distributed over a wide geographical
area.   To cater to this large number of accounting units, WAPDA has adopted a
decentralized, accrual-based accounting system, designed and implemented during FY82-
84 by consultants under the Second and Third WAPDA Power Projects (Loan 1208-PAK and
Credit 968-PAK). While the accounting system is sound in structure, the utility is
not deriving full benefits from the system primarily due to: (a) non-availability of
trained accounting personnel required to maintain the decentralized system,
particularly in the distribution areas; and (b) the manual system of maintaining the
accounts which causes significant delays in the flow of accounting information through
WAPDA's hierarchy. In order to address the lack of trained accounting personnel in
the distribution area, WAPDA is implementing a comprehensive training program under
the USAID financed DDP (para 2.06) with the help of a consortium of US consultarnts
referred to as Principal Technical Assistance Team. Furthermore, under the ongoina
Fifth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2556-PAK), WAPDA is implementing a training program
for the remaining accounts personnel in Generation, Transmission and Headquarters with
the assistance of Electricity Supply Board of Ireland under Bank financing. As regards
automation of the accounting system, the USAID-financed DDP would provide the necessary
assistance to automate the accounting and financial information system in the
distribution area. The automation of the accounting and financial information system
for the generation, transmission and other functions at headquarters is a part of the
FI4IP under the proposed Project (para 3.03(c)).



- 30 -
Financial Organizat ion
4.17     The organization chart of the financial function of WAPDA is presented in
Annex 4.5. WAPDA's financial function is headed by Member Finance, while the day-to-
day management of the financial function is the responsibility of General Manager
(Finance), assisted by 10 senior finance managers and their staff. The appointment
of the General Manager (Finance) in compliance with a condition of effectiveness for
the Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2499-PAK), has enhanced the role of the Finance
function within the organization. However, there is a need for a detailed review of
the financial organization in order to:   (a.) accommodate the separation of the
Distribution function which would entail entering into commercial arrangements for the
sale of electricity between the Generation/Transmission and the Distribution functions;
(b) address the problem of an excessive number of senior managers (10) reporting to
the General Manager (Finance) which has reduced financial control in general; and (c)
segregate the complex tasks of accounting from those of financial management, (short-
term and long-term debt management and financial planning), particularly in light of
the recent mandate from GOP that WAPDA should mobilize all local resources on its own
for development. WAPDA has furnished a proposal for reorganizing the finance function
which was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. In view of the need to have
an appropriate financial management structure in place and operate more autonomously,
WAPDA. as a Rart of the FMIP. has agreed to implement the reorganization plan for the
finance function by December 31. 1990 (para 6.02(e)),
Internal Audit
4.18     Although WAPDA has a large Internal Audit Department,  its systems and
procedures are outdated and its responsibilities have not been enhanced to suit the
utility's recent growth in size and complexity. In recognition of this, WAPDA, under
financing from USAID, has engaged consultants to develop a modern internal auditing
system. The consultants have completed their work and the draft final report is under
review by WAPDA and the Bank. In order to strengthen the internal audit function,
which is fundamental to the evaluation of the utility's internal controls system as
well as to the finalization of the external audit of WAPDA within a reasonable
timeframe, WAPDA as a part of the FMIP. has agreed to furnish to the Bank Group by June
30. 1990. a dated and monitorable action Rlan to implement by June 30. 1991. the agreed
recommendations of the Internal Audit Study (Rara 6.02(e)).
External Audit
4.19     The responsibility for auditing WAPDA's accounts rests with the Auditor
General of Pakistan (AG) who discharges this responsibility through a Director General.
The Director General, WAPDA Audit, is assigned to WAPDA on a permanent basis together
with a staff of about 400. WAPDA is required by the WAPDA Act, which mirrors the
Bank's audit requirements, to finalize the annual accounts and have them audited within
six months of the end of the financial year. However, the inordinate delays in the
flow of financial information and the absence of an effective internal audit system
which is needed to support the external audit in view of the geographical spread and
magnitude of WAPDA's operations, preclude the fulfillment of the WAPDA Act stipulation.
At present, the AG's Preliminary Audit Observations are issued within six months of
the end of the financial year, together with the utility's certified financial
statements.   With the improvement envisaged in the flow of financial information
through the automation of its accounting and financial information system (para 4.16)
and the strengthening of the internal audit function, it is expected that WAPDA would
be in a position, beginning FY92 to have its finalized annual accounts audited within
six months of the end of the financial year. Nevertheless, in order for the Bank to



- 31 -
preserve the right to request an audit of WAPDA's finalized accounts within six months
of the end of the financial year, the Bank Groun's standard audit covenant which is
included under all ongoing WAPDA Power Projects is repeated under the Proiect and
irovides for WAPDA to have its finalized accounts audited and furnish to the Bank
Group as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year (Rara 6.04(e)).
Insurance
4.20     Prior to 1977, WAPDA placed its insurance with the National Insurance
Corporation of Pakistan, a Government-owned insurance company.  Due to difficulties
in settling its claims with this agency, WAPDA elected to insure its assets under a
self-insurance scheme.  This scheme was established in 1981 with the assistance of
actuarial consultants, and covers substations, power houses, machinery and workshops
against loss from fire and machinery breakdown. Since that time, WAPDA's assets have
increased fourfold, and therefore there is a need for a new actuarial sLudy to be
conducted to determine rates of annual contributions to the self-insurance scheme in
order to set aside sufficient funds for covering losses from fire and machinery
breakdown.   The study which is a part of the FMIP is a component of the proposed
Project (para 3.03(c)).  Therefore. WAPDA has agreed as Dart of the FMIP to:  (a)
appoint, no later than June 30. 1990. consultants whose gualifications, terms of
reference and exDerience are satisfactory to the Bank Group to complete an actuarial
study for the utility by March 31. 1991: and (b) implement the recommendations of the
study by June 30. 1991 (Rara 6.02(e)).
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Load Forecast
5.01     WAPDA's Actual and Forecast Electricity Sales.  WAPDA's electricity sales
increased over the past decade at an average annual rate of about 12X, from 6,490 GWh
in FY78 to 20,702 GWh in FY88. This relatively high rate of growth is attributable
to: (a) the unprecedented growth in demand for electricity by the industrial sector,
particularly the newly established electricity intensive industries; (b) the continued,
albeit, declining worker's remittances from the Gulf countries, which maintained a
buoyant demand for electricity by residential and commercial consumers; (c) the rapid
conversion of tubewells for irrigation pumping from diesel to electricity; and (d)
until recently, the inadequate adjustments in tariffs relatively to the increases in
the general price level, which further stimulated the demand for electricity.   A
summary of the actual and projected electricity sales for the peri.od FY78-98 is
presented in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1: UAPDA's Actual and Forecast Electricity Sales FY78-98
Actuat                  Forecast
Averase Annual Growth Rate (X) Average Annual Growth Rate (X)
FY78-88                  FY89-98
Energy Sold        12.3                      10.5
Residential        20.1                     14.1
Commercfal         13.2                      12.7
Industrial          9.1                      9.2
Agricul;ire         9.9                      5.6
5.02     The forecast of electricity sales is based on a projected slow down in the
growth of the economy, with GDP increasing at an average annual rate of about 5.5% up



- 32 -
to FY92, 6% between FY93 and FY95 and then resuming its historical trend of 6.5%
thereafter. Reflecting this development, WAPDA's sales are forecast to increase at
a lower rate of growth between FY89 and FY98, than in the preceding decade, averaging
about 10.5% compared to 12.3%. Moreover, as generating capacity constraints are likely
to persist until the mid- to late 1990s, GOP intends to minimize their adverse impact
through better demand management including direct curtailment of supply to various
consumer categories  and introduction of load management  devices  to rationalize
consumption during peak periods. These measures, together with the rationalization
of the level and structure of tariffs, as well as the implementation of conservation
measures agreed to under ESL II are expected to bring about reduction in tile rates of
growth of electricity consumption for all consumer categories except the industrial
consumers whose rate of growth would remain at its historical level of about 9.2%.
5.03     Project Forecast.  The forecast of electricity sales for the proposed Project
was prepared by the Bank based on a 3% average annual increase in population and three
parameters which were derived from WAPDA's data. These are: (a) consumption during
first year of service; (b) initial connection rates; and (c) rate of growth of
electricity consumption. The forecast prepared on the basis of these parameters was
reduced by 40% to allow for the fact that villages and settlements to be connected
under the proposed Project are likely to be less prosperous than those connected
earlier. These result in electricity sales increasing over the life of the proposed
Project from 62 GWh in FY89 to 2,848 GWh in FY2018, representing an average annual
increase of about 14%. Details relating to the forecast of electricity sales are on
project file and the results are summarized in Annex 5.1.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.04     As noted, the proposed Project covers GOP's seven-year CIP (FY89-95) for RE.
It provides  for:   (a) extending the supply of electricity to new villages and
settlements; (b) connecting to the grid settlements in close proximity of already
electrified villages (back-filling); (c) expanding consumer connections in villages
and settlements already electrified (intensification); (d) rehabilitating and
reinforcing the rural distribution network; and (e) load management. Intensification,
back-filling, rehabilitation and reinforcement, and load management allow for capturing
the benefits of investments already made through the better utilization of existing
facilities, reductions in losses and overall improvements in the reliability and
quality of service. Investments in these, therefore, constitute the least cost means
for utilizing fully the existing equipment and installations over their normal life
time.
5.05     Under the proposed Project provision has been made for the collection of
detailed information relating to the size, location and distance of villages and
settlements in the country and for the formulation of a long-term least cost REMP (para
3.03(a)). Moreover, as an interim measure, a set of criteria (para3.08) were agreed
with WAPDA which would ensure that under the proposed Project, electricity is supplied
to new villages and settlements at least cost.   These criteria are based on a
comparison of the cost of connscting a new village to the national grid to the cost
of installing an isolated diesel generator, and involves determining the distance from
the grid at which the cost of the two alternatives (grid supplied vs isolated
generation) breaks even.   For a representative village with 200 inhabitants this
distance was estimated at 18.1 km, which results in a ratio of inhabitants (I) per
kilometer (K) of about 11 I/K.   Details of the assumptions and calculations are
presented in Annex 5.2. Therefore, connection to the existing grid would be the least
cost alternative only if the ratio of inhabitants to the distance from the MV line is
equal to or greater than 11 I/K. However, given the prevailing resource constraints



- 33 -
which augment the need for the more efficient utilization and better targeting of
available resources, WAPDA agreed under the proposed Project to a minimum overall ratio
(I/K)  f' inhlabitants (I) per kilometer of distance f:om the MV grid (K) of at least
24, As a result, the cost of connecting under the proposed Project one additional
village which does not have a settlement within its vicinity, would be lower than the
cost of the alternate option - i.e. isolated generation.   Therefore, the criteria
agreed on would ensure that the proposed Project would be implemented at least cost,
C. Return on Investment
5.06     The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the proposed Project is about
11%.  It is based on measurable costs and benefits associated with the proposed
Project.  The measurable costs include:  (a) capital costs of medium voltage lines,
transformers, low voltage lines and associated civil works, for back-filling,
intensification, rehabilitation and reinforcement as well as the costs of extending
supply to new villages; (b) operation and maintenance costs, estimated at 2% of the
capital cost; and (c) the economic cost of supply at the low-voltage level.   The
measurable benefits include incremental revenues associated with sales of electricity
to new consumers to be connected under the proposed Project, valued on the basis of
the average expenditures incurred by various consumer categories on fuels to be
displaced by electricity for meeting their energy needs, which is taken as a proxy of
the consumers' willingness to pay.  Both the costs and benefits attributable to the
proposed Project were expressed in their equivalent border prices using appropriate
conversion factors. Details relating to the assumptions and calculations are presented
in Annex 5.3.
5.07     The IERR for the proposed Project of 11% compares  favorably with the
opportunity cost of capital, estimated at about 10%.   However, it represents the
minimum return on the proposed Project as it does not take into account the benefits
attributable to:  (a) reductions in losses and improvements in the reliability a2d
quality of service achieved through rehabilitation and reinforcement of the LV network
and load management; (b) the overall improvements in rural productivity and the quality
of life of the rural population which is expected to stem the flow of migrants and
alleviate pressures in urban areas; and (c) industry with strong backward and forward
linkages to be spawned by the spread of tubewells.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
5.08     The Bank Group has been a major source of support over many years for a wide
range of GOP's energy sector programs.  Its involvement in the proposed Project is
critical to the achievement of GOP's objectives of extending the supply of electricity
to  rural  areas,  especially  in  light  of  the  shortcomings  experienced  in  the
implementation of past rural electrification programs with which the Bank was not
associated. The Bank Group's involvement would assist GOP in realizing more fully the
benefits of investments already made as well as in preparing the REMP which would allow
for future RE programs being implemented at least cost. The Bank Group's support for
RE is fully in accord with the broader social objectives of raising rural productivity
and enhancing the quality of life of the rural population, which the Bank is assisting
through projects in other sectors.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations GOP agreed to:
(a)   not later than July 1, 1990, take the necessary measures so as to enable WAPDA
to recover the connection costs from agricultural consumers over the economic
life of the tubewells (para 4.07); and
(b)   not later than December 31, 1992, formulate, in consultation with the Bank
Group, and furnish to the Bank Group an action plan to enable WAPDA to enhance
the recovery of costs of rural electrification (para 4.08).
6.02     During negotiations WAPDA agreed to:
(a)    execute the proposed Project according to an Implementation Program (Annex
3.14);
(b)    complete and submit to the Bank Group for review and comment, not later than
December 31, 1993, the REMP (para 3.03(a));
(c)    select for electrification under the proposed Project, in a given year, only
those villages which shall have an overall country-wide ratio (I/K) of
inhabitants (I) to distance in kilometers (K) from the MV g-:id of not less
than 24 and which satisfy the following additional criteria: (i) for villages
in the provinces of Punjab and Sind, each village shall have a population of
not less than 200 inhabitants and shall not be more than 6 km from the MV
grid; and (ii) for villages in the Northwest Frontier, each village shall not
be more than 20 km frem the MV grid and all such villages shall have an
overall province-wide ratio of not less than 24.   In addition, and not
withstanding the abovementioned provisions, any settlement shall be eligible
for electrification under the proposed Project if it has not less than 200
inhabitants and is not more than one (1) km away from the MV grid (Annex 3.14
(para 3.08)); and
(d)    designate a senior staff at each AEB who would be responsible for monitoring
the implementation of the proposed Project in accordance with the Bank
Environmental Guidelines (para 3.17);
(e)    take the actions contained in the Financial Management Improvement Plan (Annex
4.1).
6.03     Approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the project has been set as a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank Group operation (para 3.10).
6.04     In addition, it was agreed with GOP and WAPDA that the following covenants
which are included in other ongoing projects would be repeated under the proposed
Project:
(a)    GOP to cause all Federal and Provincial Governmental Agencies and Departments
to pay all bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within three months
of the receipt of such bills (para 4.10);



- 35 -
(b)    WAPDA to review before May 15 of each year, its capital expenditure program
and financing plan for the ongoing and the ensuing year and agree with the
Bank Group on steps necessary for implementation (para 4.13);
(c)    WAPDA to take all necessary actions to generate each year from internal
sources 40X of its capital expenditures averaged over the previous, ongoing
and one ensuing year as stipulated under Loan 2499-PAK (para 4.14);
(d)    WAPDA to consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that would result
in WAPDA's internal cash generation before debt service and payment to GOP
falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement (para 4.15); and
(e)    WAPDA to have its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and furnish the
audit reports to the Bank Group no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para 4.19).
6.05    On the basis of the project justification and the agreements reached with GOP
and WAPDA, it is recommended that the Bank Group support the proposed Project with a
Loan of US$123 million for a term of 20 years at the standard variable interest rate,
including a five-year grace period to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, and
with an IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million, on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Energy Sector
Organizational Chart
EYLF:    EIC
-x                    dllwdJ adbn
f&Pay &                                                          d     I E~C@d4 bmw *O
dftdWn)                                                     , dfto&ft t
AN  d
V , . LI_._L.]
I I                                                     I                I             II
[t1 Q < < { I ~~~~~S                                                                               -                -   
,      |             |            j          1         F    !a               I              I                           w        
g(_iUtd                              P'OC                                          A' O
P( SIP                                  cscac                                           G5~PL#4IES
0ev            ClX          FSO  
- F*imEnSgPdcy Camill               OXY - (r*Jt CD dW                £E4A  UF-9 iid   *m. 9l OS
B8- 6_'_SbaIRXZ                      C - P*dD.~w.tawaSon               SWRC - Std  >na,t aig   _ncdCP
Ewo~ Coaatcl                        .- Allodi tw  td                   - *I  P OmSowtAabt
a- cilo_w   ne  Pa,               PWC - Pall bib Co                     mEC - KBdtluc Ss Copmk
OGDC - a * 1Gm  D_w_E CaP             P00 - Pd51dO  Co. Lt                PPEC - PdsatAlonEc w  Cavv,
P OwCIt- Ltd               PB-  P~Td~ RS                               ADO -b~'~?duos SewiW gnz
t- Pd        t L                   ClX - CaSbdwA              N-6_ P &vgIcw.
FMtIJ- 1  Vaao                      9itiF- 9jNutin GeP,st. LdENa- 6_Cmt C|
t- Wia UCc, dL5                    OG 9IC:-S Go 1 w,wCo Ltd
9-_                                                                                           -2#a
D
x
. *.  .  . ...    ..O.                                                 .   _. O* 



- 37 -                   Annex 1.2
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Lon2-Term Ener&v Strategy (LES)
Resource DeveloRment and Energy Investments
1.    Primary Energy.  Of the country's 30,000 MW hydropower potential, only
2,897 MW have been developed, and another 1,928 MW are at an advanced stage of
implementation.  This relatively low level of development is attributable to
delays in site selection, inadequate preparation and shortage of resources.
LES calls for the development of another 8,700 MW by the year 2010. Of this,
7,700 MW would be in large schemes of between 1,000 MW and 3,000 MW to be
implemented in sequence, and the remaining 1,000 MW, in relatively small schemes
of between 100 MW and 300 MW, to be implemented concurrently with the large
schemes. In order to initiate the implementation of LES, GOP completed, in 1985,
a feasibility study, followed by detailed project preparation for Kalabagh (2,400
MW) under financing from United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Also, under
financing from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a study to
evaluate and rank the remaining unexploited potential hydro sites in the country
of more than 200 MW was completed in 1985. The hydro ranking study recommended
the development of Basha (2,400 MW and ultimately 3,600 MW) after Kalabagh. A
prefeasibility study for Basha was undertaken concurrently with the hydro ranking
study and also completed in 1985. In addition, GOP completed, in 1987, a study
to evaluate the hydro sites of less than 200 MW under financing from KfW of
Germany.
2.    Coal is one of Pakistan's principal domestic energy resources.  Despite
the suitability of this coal for the production of electricity and industrial
steam, its share in the supply of commercial energy has remained virtually
stagnant, at about 7%.  The stagnation is attributable to the energy pricing
policy pursued by GOP in the past, whereby the prices of competing fuels, i.e.,
fuel oil and natural gas, were maintained at a lower level than the market
determined price of coal.   This induced industry,  the power subsector and
household consumers to shift from coal to natural gas and fuel oil. Presently,
97% of the coal produced in Pakistan is used by brick kilns, mainly because of
technological constraints. Since 1985, GOP has increased the prices of natural
gas and petroleum products. As a result, the present price of domestic coal,
in terms of thermal equivalency, is competitive with the prices of substitute
fuels. However, despite the realignment of relative prices, coal production
remains sluggish because of:  (a) the absence of a stable market for its use
other than for the manufacture of bricks; (b) the inadequacy of the laws
governing coal exploration and development by PS which holds 75% of all the
proven reserves in Pakistan; and (c) PMDC's lack of technical, managerial and
financial capacity to implement a sustained program for the development of
publicly-held concessions. LES calls for a program to assess the reserves held
by PMDC to delineate tracts suitable for exploration and development, and the
introduction of a framework for allowing PMDC to enter into joint ventures with
local and international private companies to overcome its technical, managerial,
and capital constraints. LES also calls for coal concessions to be put on an
equal footing with those in the oil and gas subsectors. This would allow for
c-)    V  1  \re\,i   exl-2



- 38 -                 Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 4
their termination should concessionaires fail to invest in resource assessment
ane development within a specified period of time, rather than continuing the
present practice of holding concessions indefinitely irrespective of the
investment undertaken.   In order to provide a stable market for coal, the
construction of power plants based on fluidized bed technology of appropriate
sizes would be pursued, and incentives to stimulate investments by PS in the
modernization of the coal mines would be introduced. Since current projections
show that, despite a more efficient and systematic exploitation of Pakistan's
proven reserves, production would not be adequate, coal imports would be required
to ensure that future demand for energy is met at least cost. Accordingly, LES
calls for increasing the annual imports of coal from 0.5 mtoe to 5 mtoe by the
year 2010 as a substitute for higher value fuels, i.e. petroleum products and
natural gas, and the development of the infrastructure for coal handling.
3.    The rate at which oil and gas are being developed is slower than the
resource base warrants. LES calls for the formulation of a program to identify:
geologically risky areas where exploration would be undertaken through joint
ventures with PS, which would provide risk capital and know-how to supplement
the financial and technical capabilities of OGDC; areas where OGDC would take
the sole responsibility for development; and areas which would be developed
through work programs, subcontracts, etc. with PS entities. LES also calls for
the accelerated development of the dormant low-quality gas fields and the
utilization of this gas for the generation of electricity.
4.    The share of traditional fuels in rural energy consumption is declining
because of deforestation, caused primarily by the unrestrained use of fuelwood
and the absence of a national program for afforestation to replenish supply.
As a result, the availability of fuelwood has declined, forcing its price
significantly above the price of kerosene, both measured in terms of thermal
content.  This has had an adverse impact on the income of the rural low-income
households.  Accordingly, LES proposes a household energy survey to determine               i
the pattern of energy consumption,  the potential for substitution between
traditional and commercial fuels, and the means for meeting the energy needs of
the rural poor at least cost. It also calls for an assessment of the potential
for the increased use of solar energy for meeting low-temperature hot water needs
and for the formulation of a national afforestation program.
5.    Secondary Energv.  LES calls for the formulation of long-term least cost
development plans for the production, transport and distribution of electricity,
coal, gas and petroleum products. In the power subsector, investments would move
towards increased reliance on domestic energy resources, such as coal and
hydropower, and the use of petroleum products and gas only when it is deemed
economic. In this respect, the use of natural gas would shift from conventional
base load plants to combined cycle and peaking plants. Domestic coal production
would be increased to substitute for hydrocarbons in the power and industrial
sectors. In order to supplement domestic coal, future increases in the thermal
generating capacity for base load plants would be based on imported coal. The
least cost expansion plan for power generation for the period 1989-2010 calls
for the development of about 28,500 MW of generating capacity, approximately
8,700 MW (30X) of which would be based on hydro. The remaining 19,800 (701)
would be thermal capacity, of which about 9,300 MW (33X) would be based on
imported oil and 4,500 MW (16%) on domestic gas. Generation capacity based on
coal would provide about 6,000 MW (22%), including 4,600 MW based on imported



- 39 -             Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 4
coal.  Approximately 30X of the proposed capacity, amounting to 8,500 MW, is
expected to be added through PS investments.
6.    LES also calls for the implementation of a long-term plan for the
reinforcement and extension of transmission and distribution networks to ensure
that power  is  transported  and delivered efficiently.    The  transmission
development program would involve the extension and reinforcement of the 500-kV
network to efficiently evacuate electricity from the major hydropower stations
in the north (Tarbela and Mangla) to the south during the rainy seasons, and
transport power from the major thermal stations in the south to the north during
the dry seasons. In addition, the efficient operation of the integrated power
system requires a dispatch system that would optimize the operations of the power
stations to meet the demand at least cost. The secondary transmission network
would also be extended and reinforced to reduce technical losses. As for the
distribution system, substantial investment would be undertaken to ensure its
extension at least cost, reduce losses and implement RE programs based on a Rural
Electrification Master Plan (REMP).
7.    As the demand for petroleum products and production of oil from existing
fields increase, the refining capacity would need to be expanded to meet the
demand at least cost. LES calls for increasing the refining capacity between
1989 and 2010 by 5 million tons, of which one million tons would be in the form
of secondary refining to crack fuel oil.  In addition, there is a need for
increasing the storage and handling facilities for petroleum products. As for
the infrastructure for natural gas, LES calls for the expansion of the gas
processing capacity and the reinforcement and extension of the transmission and
distribution networks in the urban areas to meet the increased demand , based
on a long-term plan whose implementation would be phased over successive
five-year plans.
Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
8.    LES calls for rationalizing energy prices to promote efficiency and
resource mobilization. Accordingly, prices of tradeable energy products, such
as oil and petroleum products would be set, at a minimum, at their equivalent
border price plus the cost of inland handling. As for electricity, lignite and
gas, which in the case of Pakistan are considered non-tradeable, their prices
would be set to cover the economic cost of supply, including a premium for
depletion when applicable, and finance at least 40X of the investment program
of each entity from internal sources. Moreover, the structure of prices for gas,
coal and electricity would be realigned to reflect the structure dictated by the
economic cost of supply. As the demand for gas exceeds supply, economic pricing
of this resource dictates that in order to rationalize its consumption and
mobilize resources for GOP, its price to various consumer categories would be
adjusted to reach parity with the petroleum products it displaces. In addition
the structure of gas tariffs would be revised and seasonal tariffs introduced
to rationalize demand.
Institutional Develogment
9.    LES calls for improving the efficiency of the entities in the sector by
decentralizing decision-making and moving towards financial and administrative
autonomy.  KESC's finances would be restructured to ensure that Nevetwes cover
all costs and at least 401 of its investment program. As frt 'A#DA, its



- 40 -
Annex 1.2
Page 4 of 4
dependence on annual allocations under the budget would be phased out through
greater reliance on the commercial markets for mobilizing financing.  In the
area of planning, the strategy calls for strengthening the capabilities of the
Energy Wing in MPD to assume the lead role in integrating the plans of the
entities in the sector into a comprehensive energy development plan dictated by
national priorities, taking into account financial and resource constraints.
In the power subsector, LES calls for the integrated operation of WAPDA and KESC
in investment planning and operations to ensure that demand for electricity is
met at lepst cost. PMDC would be restructured to assume a more active role in
the development of its coal reserves through joint ventures with PS for the
purpose of developing specific proven reserves. In the oil and gas subsectors,
OGDC would become increasingly self-reliant in financing its exploration and
development program, through joint ventures, internal resources and the credit
market, and its technical and managerial capabilities strengthened to evolve into
a company whose operations are based on internationally accepted industry
standards. GOP involvement in SNGPL and SSGC would be reduced to allow for a
greater role for PS.
10.   The implementation of the investment plans in the energy sector continues
to be constrained by the shortage of financial resources and, to some extent,
the lack of technical know-how. The implementation capabilities of the public
sector and semi-autonomous entities in the sector are also taxed and,
consequently, their ability to achieve the targets under the five-year
development plans  are hindered.    LES  calls  for the  introduction of an
institutional framework aimed at providing the security and incentives for PS
to increase its involvement in the development of energy to complement the
investments of the public sector.   Although PS has been involved in the
development of the oil and gas subsectors for several years, its role would be
further strengthened with the introduction of a better compensation package and
fiscal incentives. As for the power and coal subsectors, LES calls for reducing
the investment outlays of public sector entities and delineating specific
investments that would be earmarked for consideration by PS to provide about 30%
of the total installed power generating capacity by the year 2010, and contribute
at least 50% of the incremental annual production of domestic coal.



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Organizational Chart
= (W)                         . - 
Im~ .     smGu ISW II II      1               I
mm i1 ftm
ll
I~~~~~~~~~~~0                            (PcAib)    ll I rPAWCUS    IE  Il''
Cog)
POW wPMwmm   Q-W)
(D-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Gwwm  -g                               hWXt
SW* Iv-
-2~~~~~~~~~~~~I.



- 42 -
Annex 3.1
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Population Proiection and Consumption Forecast
Fiscal         Population            Energy Sale
Year 1/          (million)                MM
1987                 100.6              17,745
1988                 103.6              20,702
1989                 106.7              22,221
1990                 109.3              26,806
1991                 112.6              33,711
1992                 116.2              38,293
1993                 119.4              43,294
1994                 122.7              50,151
1995                 126.7              53,767
1/   Fiscal Year Ending June 30



- 43 -
Annex 3.2
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Number of Villages and Level of Electrification
Description               PUNJ.    SIND     NWFP      BAL.    TOTAL
Number of Villages        25,399   5,763    7,809    6,111    45,082
Uninhabited Villages         990      88       367      524      1,969
Number of Inhabited
Villages               24,409   5,675    7,442    5,587    43,113
Number of Electrified
Villages               10,676   3,281    1,708       862    16,527
Number of Unelectrified
Villages               13,373   2,394    5,734    4.725    26,586
Number of Estimated
Settlements           40,000   13,135   13,932   12,933   80,000
Number of Electrified
Settlements (6/30/88) 13,373   5,756    4,553    1,599    25,281
Number of Unelectrified
Settlements            26,627   7,379    9,379    11,344   54,719
Source: 1981 Census and WAPDA's Statistics



- 44 -
Amex 3.3
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Capacity Demand of RE Expansion ProJect (1988-95)
Description                  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93   1993-94        1994-95
Cumutative 1-PH Connec.       82,430  164,860  357,840  623,190  894,560  1,100,440   1,206,130
Cur.atative 3-PH Connec.
(a)  Industrial                  794    1,588    3,448    6,008    8,628        10,618      11,630
(b)  Tubewell                  1,850    3,710    8,060   14,040   20,150        24,800      27,170
Demand per Customer (kW)
(a)  1-PH                       0.12      0.13     0.15     0.16      0.18        0.19        0.21
(b)  3-PH Industrial            5.09      5.36     5.64     6.26      6.85        6.99        7.13
(c)  3-PH Tubewell              3.10      3.50     3.90     4.30      4.70        5.10        5.50
Demand at Distr. Trans. (NW)
(a)  1-PH                         11        24       57       110      174         229         270
(b)  3-PH                          6        13       31        60       94         125          150
Demand at Grid Station (MW)         16       32       77       149      235         310          368
Demand at Generation (MW)           14       27       66       128      201         266          315



- 45 -
Annex 3.4
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ScoD-e and Inmtementation Schedute of RE Expansion Project (F' 1989-95)
DescriJ20on                 1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  199Z-93    1993-94   1994-95            TOTAL
Nurber of Villages
to be Electrified              500      500    1,071    1,472    1,505          1,100       542          6,690
NuTrer of Settlements
to be Electrified              300      300      802    1,103    1,128            900       482          5,015
Number of Domestic Cons.   81,160   81,160  190,000  261,250  267,180         202,690   104,050      1,187,490
Number of Commer. Cons.      1,270    1,210    2,980    4,100    4,190         3,190     1,640          18,640
Number of Tubewelts          1,855    1,855    4,350    5,980    6,110        4,650      2,370         27,170
Number of Indus. Cons.         794      794    1,860    2,560    2,620         1,990     1,012          11,630
Number of LV Cons.          82,430   82 430  192,980  265,350  271,370      205,880   105,690        1,206,130
Number of MV Cons.           2,650    2,650    6,210    8,540    8,730      6,640        3,380         38,800



- 46 -
Arnex 3.5
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Scooe and Schedule of Proiect Co-moonent Financed by Bank Grouo
Descriotton                         1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94    1994-95    TOTAL
Number of Villages
to be Electrified                      87      579      1,071      869         294     2,900
Number of Settlements
to be ELectrified                      65      434        803      651         217     2,170
Number of Domestic Cons.           15,416  102,771   190,127  154,157       51,389   513,860
Number of Conmer. Cons.               242    1,612      2,982    2,418         806     8,060
Number of Tubewells                   353    2,351      4,349    3,527       1,170    11,750
Number of Indus. Cons.                151    1,008      1,864    1,511         506     5,040
Number of LV Cons.                 15,658  104,383   193,109  156,575       52,195   521,920
Number of NV Cons.                    504    3,359      6,213    5,038       1,676    16,790



- 47 -
Annex 3.6
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Bitt of ouantities for RE Prolect
Descriotion         Unit      1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93   1993-94   1994-95        TOTAL
33-kV Line
ACSR (DOG)       km            61       61        93      128      131          78       29         581
II-kV Lines
ACSR (DOG)       km          1331     1331      2028     2789     2852        1712      634      12,677
ACSR (RABBIT)    km           784      784      1195     1642     1680        1008      373        7466
ACSR (GOPHER)    km           813      813      1239     1703     1742        1045      387        7742
TOTAL                      2928     2928     4462      6134     6274        3765     1394     27,885
0.4-kV 3-PH
WASP - RABBIT    km           276      276       421      579      592         355      131        2630
WASP - GOPHER    km           137      137       208      287      293         176       65        1303
ANT  -RABBIT    km             35       35        53       73       75          45       17         333
ANT  - GOPHER    km            46       46        71       97       99          59       22         440
GANT -RABBIT    km             11       11        16       23       23          14        5         103
GANT -GOPHER    km             11       11        16       23       23          14        5         103
TOTAL                       516      516      785      1082     1105         663      245       4912
0.4-kV 1-PH
ANT              km           660      660      1005     1383     1414         848        314     6284
GANT             km           544      544      828      1139     1165         699        259     5178
TOTAL                      1204     1204     1833      2522     2579        1548        573   11,462
33/0.4-kV S/S
25-kVA           No.           51       51       77       106      109          65         24      483
50-kVA           No.            2        2        3         4        4           3          1        19
100-kVA          No.            -        -         1        1        1           1          -        4
200-kVA          No.            -        -         1        1        1           1          -         4
TOTAL                        53       53       82       112      115          70         25      510
11/0.4-kV S/S
25-kVA           No.         4613     4613     7029      9665     9885        5931       2196   43,932
50-kVA           No.          669      669      1019     1401     1433        859         318     6368
100-kVA          No.           36       36       56        76       78         47          17      346
200-kVA          No.           24       24       37        51       53          32         12      233
TOTAL                      5342     5342     8141    11,193   11,449       6869        6869   50,879



- 48 -
Annex 3.7
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Bitts of Quantities for Bank Grouo Financing
Description                      Unit   1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95            TOTAL
33-kV Lines                        km         8         50       92        75       25           250
11-kV Lines                       km        363     2,420    4,477    3,630       1,210       12,100
0.4-kV, 3-PH Lines                 km        63        4.0      777      630        210        2,100
0.4-kV, 1-PH Lines                 km       150     1,000    1,850    1,500         500        5,000
33/0.4-kV S/S                     No.         7         44       81        66        22          220
11/0.4-kV S/S                     No.       660     4,400    8,140    6,600       2,200      22,000



-49 -
Annex 3.8
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Construction Program of Lines and Grid Stations (1988-93)
Conversions
New Stations              Augnentations
132-kV              66-kV       Extensions           Lines (km)
AREA               No.      MVA       No.      MVA   132-kV   66-kV    132-kV   66-kV
Peshawar           18       160                38         8       11        403     135
Rawalpindi         12       221        1        5        14        3        140      32
Dandkhel            3        78        1        6         2        1        123      30
Sargodha           3         65        1        6         2        4        90       40
Faisalabad         4        104       2        13        3         2        29        7
Gujranwala          7       143        3       33         2        3        78       40
Lahore             11       637        -        -        8         3        141       -
Sahiwal             7        98        -        -        6         2        76        -
Multan              4        52        2       10        14        7         66      25
Sukkur              5        39        -        -         4        1        76       25
Hyderabad          10       169        -        -        2         -        83      300
Quetta             11       123        2       13        10        5        296      45
TOTAL          95      1,989      18       124       75        42     1,601      679



- 50 -
Annex3.9
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Unit Cost of Materials (June 1988 Prices)
Material      Material and Labour
Description         Unit      (Rs x 1.000)       (Rs x 1.000)
33-kV Lines
ACSR Panther     km            151                190
ACSR Dog         km             97                122
ACSR Rabbit      km             73                 92
ACSR Gopher      km             62                 78
11-kV Lines
ACSR Panther     km            140                176
ACSR Dog         km             87                110
ACSR Rabbit      km             63                 80
ACSR Gopher      km             52                 66
33-0.4-kV S/S
25-kVA           No.            31                 39
50-kVA           No.            43                 54
100-kVA          No.            57                 72
200-kVA          No.            72                 91
400-kVA          No.           108                136
11/0.4-kV S/S
15-kVA           No.            16                 20
25-kVA           No.            19                 23
50-kVA           No.            26                 33
100-kVA          No.            36                 46
200-kVA          No.            46                 58
400-kVA          No.            69                 87
630-kVA          No.            98                124



- 51 -
Annex 3.10
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Number of Pending Connection Anlications
Province         General       Industrial        Tubewell        TOTAL
Punjab           342,777         8,143             8,731       359,351
NWFP              30,112            876              978        31,966
Sind               9,177           493               288         9,958
Baluchistan        1,670            69               235         1,974
TOTAL         383,436         9,581            10,232       403,249



- 52 -
_  .   -                                                                    ..    4
- ,                           Os                                                                          -  _ .  ;x or  _   00004  own.            i 7            -   0-
E~~~~~~~~no .                                                                                                                              4 ---s°   o
_o_o~~~-                                           -as£° °'  --                                          --                o                      *0
_        n-             ,s en..                    -                          04040                        . °° .4_  z00_-                                   .40°-
a -                   040           o         e                . ,              .4       _         04                04O          _  0,                 _ 
a.               sa             o            onc.                       coo-we<   -.fl..                                        0S                          -ao_@
~~~~~0                                   4                                              o.4.o                      oO_o   _  _e    o    °°  OO0_Osee
,,~~ ~~~~~~                                                               0            0°°a    -°4 -->    0040                                                    -eo  _   v
a_o               *0                         0404*               g       ,                 o                                  -         o             _        oOo- _o_    oo0  
- aan .                                                 4O      .Se Ooo c. c.                               .n        O                4.ec° -az_oo          g a°SS4.0D0                  n -       o ,
_ _ i _ aO   a0                                         0. o                       ao- .           n         c-       .o                 00       0.,            00 0-            _     _        ,004  °
~~o                                    .4z                  0*00.0                     40       S      ° 40    8     z .44.40                .4°     S     0one                           r     .
oO~~~4                                 o      -         -.4o-4ooo<  ooooo      ooooo
0_       0            .404          0*-~                     _                                n.. °o                 04        o    ,        enO       n                 -       _z=a0
.4_                     .40   _~__0000             040       0                O   On_          =    _    _   40_                     040        c           4.  040             °         -  °
_ DO   *               0_O<  -    -    °    .-.o _o  a e.                   00.40°-4a.4s  _.4-  n
a,               a             .n           ...-,ot O-.,.                                                               _               O    O         _Oe_oO= 0  0 _e.4 O040-_
_       a                      00 4 0                  -0s40 ._.c-c-                                          04o..                      00- *-                  CO 4e.on2
:pO . 04              _           -                     0000                -     -_               40                   °f                        E    4               .-                                0- -*
R ~ ~ ~ 4 £;-  n
a                     -                 -:=~° 444o 0*4400                                     .4a   ns .4a .4                                                                          n                -
*~~~~~ 04                                *0 . a 4                   0     0 40 0 0 04                                     0 0 40 0 04                                        c                           we    ,4
0    e              .      0z j- *0         0^ -0 0^ r0 .0 0                                                                      -0 0 0 0 0004                                  4



cV                   _                   -    R  a -*   
Ow $                                      -A   
<f     l>                                 . 
00                    000                 00        0          o             00oo0  _   
o000                  o 0    0        0        0o                   4,400
O    00                       0           0           0                       oa eeo oo  
_-     O__             o    0                          a             .          00
_ o0                    o.-0                  000o_°00o   ~o
=0            -                    0         -    ° D-__
_      _O                                              40 0_ _00   0  V   _O   
_    0             oa=oa                o000                           0         0
_C o    o0                                                            oas  tWoo Z_o
_ _0    o o eo o S SSo                                                        oCo
3      _0  _0                                00        0000
-     _.0              o oo_O =                _         O                  0o   W
coW-   000Z            , , o 0       0        0       0                     * 000_ 
_ _0                     00>                00000,                         o      o 000
O  >-  ,,,           000                 0 000                           000Z0
0;    000                s O  S0             00_                            0 000 O  =4
o~ _0              _        -            o0     _0                 _
0w     _0            _        0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0r                                 0 0  0  _£
o. z                      o .       0 0          0              8       0000 oow-W  
_0                  0_0                 z0        0                    0000_c, 3w
w _0                      0 0 0              0 0                   o         000=    s w_Z
> 00                000                 _0.0000o wo 
w Z0                 000                S    0     0             Z       0000|F>__  
_ 000  _                  0 0              0 0 00 0



- 54 -
s¢          =             _2~~----__          ---                   -----                --_---                                                         -
~~ ~ S ° n,-to                                      .   zo.X  o         Ecto a                                 sl0-a                 ° c-.ne     o~~__ 
a             c- - -0-- o---.- -                        ° -° -a --o--
0  °                                       -        °-                          -       -   -S -°
_ _ ~~o                      E    co               co On                won             _      4 00             00_00 _oooo_     ooo__o    
cctto               -    Coo .              0a- -Z- -X  -o- ----
a~~~              ~~               0oo  =_    °  °                                       -                0O                    _
La                         cooco~- - -        -  - -  -na--            .  C  -                0 .W c .        E t c
-             flCo>.  g a 0 - _ n r  _  =  oc            Cao _o - _---                      o - -                                           o - 
_ _ a CoC                         _  o_ o         _     _    _      -o o         cco o          o      0 0.    o   00ooo_0   0  
_            -            -             _ .A
en~0 00 f                         ot        Z  .      Z_O oCZotSo_._<o            .eOgo      Z      ° f- c-            c.*
_  °        a                OCtOC.             0-44                 00ZSZc                *OO                  C7oCa              no02                 0°Z
~~~~~~~~E o
_   ~       - o          _oCo o no             ooos   o                     o    _          o o _o oo~          eooo o °           o on                oo
. -                                a       _~               X      0    00            0    -                coen_o          _..oa 00= r-_o f      
3a    - en                 en            ~ °-0 00 °O °0* <                                                                           Oc °°°°      °°. °°°          °°f 
°~~ ~ 8 '°                                                 - -
-             e    n  ~       _  _o  n    c.           X        0   Z  _    cc    a<  c oo  a,           c    o  c o    -   0    1-O              Co   _-
a       a             c-c         c-cO O                                             0O_0 O                                  0_                      O
-_-< a o.t             ccn,oo                0      000           0      0 OAooI                           000
0   o  o        no   qo oo          foOt             _           o_o.         o     O           _0 o                  o o  _  o   oo
La      2                   _  firn    e     n_o_o                   o   °Z       -        _ 0000   °Z e On o    a  woc   000       000_
C_             0-             -s              - _ o x_s
0                           c'c~~s oo. o        .000                   flcc--eo             0as    -            -'.EOcs-c 
_ _ O .0                                             00*                   OCO OOC               0   _OO   .OO   flO   
-   0          0                         -               cZ-O
a  ~       - 0 0                f -t                  00      00            000  0000.O. -.                         0 0                  t00
-                              0 0 .   O c        c' t  C n o            0 4 . 0 0 0 0 ..i5    0  0- t o             0 0  0 0          .t o    t             O
0              i3-c]               .c.nm  none                00o ,00-^                                   C0-.-            00-.                  0003 ^ ig t*



Catm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
baton   tim   I faa             0.12       8.21       0.St        8.05       0.92       0.S1       O.lt              0.00        0.00       0.O08      0.00       0.00       0.06       6.08          3.3S        0.D0       3.3J
MOltaUl                         1.25       0.59       1.14        1.10       1.4        1.07       0.37              0.20       0.10        1.30       2.01       2.24       1.24       0.42          7.15        0.31      05.46
flical Ceatt.                       0.A         0.00       *.17       O.21       020        0.16         00               0.00       0.ll       0.20       0.30       0.34        0.ll       0.0            .00       1.21       2.25
hica Cutlagae                       I0.         0.00       l.01       1.11       t.2        0.21       0.0                0.00       0.02       0.09       0.22       0.34        0.24       0.10          0.1U       1.11       0.01
lot    Cotietaela               I.0         0.11       1.24       0.6        0.50       0.31       0.IS               0.60       0.13       0.29       0.53       0.60       0.43        0.16          1.11       2.22       4.12
tO?iI coUTICt co                  0.25        0.00       1.31       2.25       2.52       1.44       0.52               0.30       0.03       1.62       2.61       2.S2        1.67       0.51          0.0s      00.53      00.5
II. Uwocal   osssu1 t
hwiyl  of filOlaa               0           0.0        0.03       0.14       0.o0       0.30       0.00               0.00       0.00       0.03       0.04       0.30       0.30        0.00          0.05       0.05       1.10
LOW   auguat 1hm                0.11        1.00       0.11       I.l        1.06       I.0        0.53               0.00       0.OO       0.31       2.00       4.20       412         1.23          5.31      12.24      It.55
hit Swl bIurs                   0.l0       1.11        1.01       O.0        0.12       0.12       0.03               0.00       0.00       0.IO       0.57       I.lt        l.00       0.33          0.34       3.36       3.70
Cealtaci Seruices               0.A         0.0        0.01       0.05       0.10       0.10       0.03               0.00       0.00       0.03       0.05       0.30       0.30        0.01          0.21       0.?7       1.0$
W.1Total                        0.00        0.         0.21       0.IS       2.38       2.U3        0.6?              0.00       0.00       0.53       2.94       6.06       6.06        1.73          6.10      It.32      24.01
Coatigcles:
I'aical Catac                      0.00        0.00       0.03       0.17       0.3$       0.36       0.10               0.00       0.00       0.00       0.44       0.91       0.91        0.26          1.02       2.60       3.62
fil  C.tolaaeiw                     0.00        0.00       0.01       0.12       0.38       0.4?       0.16               0.00       0.00       0.03       0.31       0.92        1.19       0.42          1 12       2.11       3.9
tetUl costl     ies              I.10      0.00        0.04       0.2N       1.12       0.03       0.26               0.00       0.00       0.10       0.75      103         201         0.60          2.14       5.417      7.6
Tm       Cotm   COS"              0.00        0.00       0.25       1.44       3.10       3.20       0.93               0.00       0.00       0.64       3.69       1.09       0.16        2.40          0.03      22.7S      31.12
Total knit" Cost                    05.54      20.15      40.68      59.05      60.85      45.00      22.83              14.38     10.57       31.76     5.25       59.15      46.17       22.21        265.11     256.10     522.17
Total  hiacal CoameUagci             0.00       3.02       6.25       0.0s       9.03       6.10       3.43               0.00       2.79       5.02       0.43       0.00       6.92        3.32         37.56      36.26       3.02
tetal Ftiet Costoa                  I.01       0.43        2.60       6.31       0.10       0.02       5.56               0.00       0.41       2.50       6.01       9.05       1.07        5.41         33.11      32.45      65.60
tOtAL 0 C  COSt                     05.54      23.66      SO.61      74.21       0.0?      61.710     31.02              04.30      21.77      41.00      10.69      1T."       62.00       30.00        326 13     324.0      60 U1.



16-low      11:16 It                                                6382 3.11
...........
PAIIStiP                          FPge 3 of S
muL fiTi3ctiol POultt
L/C           F/C             U              I/C            f/C            Son
CST ITIES                                             h  111li.l.                                 O1  StilihlU
I1. IuCilUiF
.............
atlurisl  a Ipipnt                 342.51       40.1           431,1. 55         15.81         186.48         202.34
Itntim. lai   Owbtaed            2244.51            I.51       2244.81          13.92            t.88         103.93
will Ipipat                         21.17         13J.?         138.51             1.1           5.45           6.43
Cetm tlo ti        u D            2117.11           O.n1     " 011.11            38.29           4.61          06.29
Comullu    Seulca                   25.to         182.1?        122.11            1.19           4.713          5.92
tIt.Ttel                          4541.46       424t.tC         111.26          210.25         116.66         40.91
Catisc1s:
i1icul Custisguy                       6.31           Sl.34         1235.14          29.56          317.3          5. 19
Price Coutlmpeuy                      11110.01       102.11        2131.11           26.10          24.41          50.51
total Cutilee cie                 1739.21       1626.15        336613            55 66          52.04         107.70
"tfiL COIIUC? COSt                 6216.65        S514.71      12155.39          265.91         248.10         514.61
n2. Soc  - nu
Uterails ; Iplpeut                  63.50        357.t0         421.20            2.94          16i56          19.50
Imectloe. LaW  A OItertad         2e3.04           0.00         203.04            9.40           0.40           9 40
lobile  iluant                       1.30          I0.58         11.18            0 96           0.49           0.5S
Cntm  htles I tlnet                164.81           0.00        164.I             t 63           0.00           7.63
Cmon ltaey Sertvce                   1.94           ?.56          9.50            0.09           0.35           0.44
Sat.TotuI                          434.59        315.84         810.43           20.12          17.40          37.52
Coutisngecies:
Physical Cotilseact                     61.07          5282          111.19           2.31           2.43           5.24                                                                                                      1
PieK Coutlsews                         105.35          91.12         196 41           2.49           2 36           4.65
total Coatigecles                 166.4t         143.94        310 36            5 30           4.59           9.19
tOTAL COIIOCt COST                   601.01         519.70       1120 71           25.42          2 199          47.41
3.  Im SIFICTln
...............
bterlials I kolpent                 80 7t         345 11        425.95            3.t4          35.90          2172
Irmtiom  Laid & Overhead          220.97          0 06         220.97           10.23           0 00          10.23
lobile Iulapuest                     1.30          11.23          12.53           0 06           0.52           0.5S
Cstom  Duties I tanes              165.82           0 00         365 02           7.64           0.00           7.64
Sot.otol                           468 07         356.40        024 47           2167           16 S5          30.17
Contisge,cie:
Pbiaical Coutiesepcy                    67.68          5153          119.21            3.13          2.39           5.52
Price Costlgeoect                      112.19          85.43         197.62            2.62          2 00           4.62
Total Coutilgesles                 179.17         136.96        316.83            5.15           4.39          10.14
tOTL COMIACT COST                    647.94         493.36        1141.30          27.42          20.09          4   31
£4. nm10ot3
....... ...... _
bterlalu A Isuipseat                13.61         140.39        162.00            0.63           6.37           7.50
Ittetlo. LaWd A Overhead            67.61         24.64          92.45            33 2s .15                     4.20
lobile I4lipeet                      0.00           6.26          6.26            0 00           0.29           0 29
Custom  Duties I tanes              13.22           0.00         73.22            3.39           0.00           3 39
Sub.total                          154.44         179.49        333.93            715            6 31          15 46



Co,tlmgociou
Kfpica  Co,timte,                      22.13          25.05         41.28            2.04          l.2U           2.25
Price tosotlec                         31.02        4u.02           06.03            0.66          201            1 U
total Comtiusuecies                51.34        6U.lt          120.31            1.00          2.22           4.12
TOTAL CTuCT COST                    213.71        248.40         682.24            1.05         10.53          19.56
It. TIn ICAL ASISTACI
......... .... .....
apposu of tillyz                   18.36          18.316        36.12            0.05          0 DI.          1.70
LOW  houaent Sesms                114.10        244.36         319.06            5.31         12.24          17.55
klk lopply kters                    1.34         12.54          10.92            0.14          3.36          3.10
Coosoltu,   Senciue                6.24         12.79          25.05            0.29          0.01           1.16
So.Total                          144.66        314.22         520.11           6.10          17.32         24.11
Cootiyleci:
Phjgioal Coatiaego                    22.00          56.11         78.11            1.02          2.60           3 62
trite Catiosgoc,                       46.39         118.33        164.12            2.12          2.01           1.99
TtUl Cotetlyneclne                 60.39         114.44        242.83            2.14          5.47           7.61
TMTAL ceOtuct COST                  215.05         5$4.55        163.60            8.93         22.79          31.t2
total Iolise Coot                   $145.16        S533.11      11278.t6          265.98        253.19         522.17
Total fI b leu  toutiugncy            011.31        103.415       254.03            21.56         26.26          13.82
totul trice Ci4ttlye7i               1411 #2        l31.11        21t.62            33.219 8       2.45          85.64
L "OOUIT   CoS                       1150.46        1614.81      I5643.32          336.12        324.10         641.63
IJ



t-            lU:N.                                                                                           2.11
FIIST                                                                           B ?4 ot s
McL nmiaiu miam
hoW eet       ?l t *l
hcejet C_wat                             Leul          Irenip              tbl             Lol               uloni          T          otal  Io nip 
.................*                                   b  lills                                         ti t  lillo.                     I of toal    ihJII
Al. IImIC      IUtl8                   4,541.40        4,241.06 n.f10.21                   210.25          1161             406.11 6.46                21U.6
a. uci   FILL                            434.5           315.84 '11.43                      20.12           1n.40            31.52        D.46         21.60
u. IUISTIFICIIU                          466.07          3A.4             024.41            21.67            16.50           31.11        0.43         21.60
If. niIU      8?                         154.44           1711.41         333.93             1. IS            0.31           15.41        0            21.C0
U1. tlIiCI   LSIStIKi                    146.61          31.              520.77             67S             I1.32           24.11        0.72         21.60
gm  Cut (16/3/1 pricem)                5,145.16        S,S33.10        11,278.16           265.U 1         26.9 5o 22.31                  0.49         21.60
hftlal Ccatla.cin                        F1 .lM          10.45          1,514.03            316              2i.26 i1.62                  0.49         21.t0
Price totieocin                        1,401.93        1,361171         2.16963             32.19           12.45            15.64        0.49         42.19
tOtAL mOm?T cOT                        1,159.46        1J 15,43.32                         326.13          324.1            I 681.6$      0.49         23.64 :
lturest bri    Coustratio             1,2U  11            1600         1,261.01            53.16             1.11           53.St        0.00         23.14
TOT    IINIK  0o01n                    9,22.4          1,114.01         616n2.32           300              224.             15.31        0.45         22.14



- 59 -
.                0000   000         00 000003                003  900
.~ ~~               ~ ~~                a. ., 3Ct C3CO    O                       0.fl O3fl    00000
O-O  00000                     00000-              - - -
i*.   --- 000000    -000000    00000    -----                                 - 3000
E.A                              -       -                                      -0-00  -000  00000  ---     °-
0          000000         000000         00000    00000           00000
.                                       .  .  .  .  .  o  .    .
0 -00000  00000  00 000  00
o w 3~~~0 0   0330O    oOOfi3   03:33 0 33 flO3OC 
O t ~~ ~°  °°°000000°                        0 00000                   300               00033°
00000                  33330 000000  3 3000      000 3 00000
=3                                              ----3-003-x  ~ 000 0  300000  -0-00       00030    03000
. S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ =                                  =    S  9   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - -_-° -_ o-      2c   
oi-    o-ooooo    o ooooo- -        -0 ooooo          -       ooooo
jD  oz                 ,         _~~ 000300            3°     03     0°°°0    0000 333
i                     -                     .            . .
JA~ ij ;j
m                          z-0                     0    0          0    30000
0    00    000000           0 0 0 00144              000
0                             Of~~~~~~~~~`il A  00000s    00I000
sillij  s i         HI            0000         000
000000000000         0                   00000~~~~~~~~~r



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Implementation Schedule
1989   j  1990        1991        1992       1993       1994        1995
1 2 3 14   1 2 | 3 |4| 1 2  3 41 |2 |3 41| 2 3p4] 1| 2 3 41 1 2 3 34 
Engineering & Construction                         I    r                                       T
Supervision Consultancy                       (, ,el.ec . .      . . . _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Contract
Preparation of Tender Documents
Revlew of Tender Documents by IBRD
Tender of Materials & Equipment
Tender Evaluation
Award of Materials & Equipment Contract
Delivery of Materlals & Equipment
Tender of Constructlon Contract
Award of Construction Contract
Mobilization of Construction Contractor
0
Erection of Project Facilities                                                     -      _ _ _ _ _
sad\w45346a



- 61 -
Annex 3.13
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year              Cumulative Disbursement
and Ouarter           USS Million Eguivalent           Z
1991
December 31, 1990               4.8                        3
March 31, 1991                  8.0                        5
June 30, 1991                  11.6                        7
1992
September 30, 1991             16.0                      10
December 31, 1991              22.4                       14
March 31, 1992                 30.4                       19
June 30, 1992                  37.2                       24
1993
September 30, 1992             48.0                      30
December 31, 1992              57.6                       36
March 31, 1993                 72.0                      45
June 30, 1993                  86.2                       54
1994
September 30, 1993            104.0                      65
December 31, 1993             120.0                      75
March 31, 1994                128.0                       80
June 30, 1994                 135.6                       85
1995
September 30, 1994            140.8                      88
December 31, 1994             144.0                       90
March 31, 1995                147.2                       92
June 30, 1995                 150.0                       94
1996
September 30, 1995            156.8                      98
December 31, 1995             160.0                     100



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Dlsbursement Profiles
100
9                                                 .4
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0   1.4      9 1    11    31
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
22
Semester~~~Rra Elclapsedo Pojc
o  4W46346b
0.                                      4
@2                                                                              .1             9 1  1 1  3 1
Seetr4lpe
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a\436



- 63 -
Annex 3.14
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Program (IP)
1.    During negotiations, WAPDA agreed to implement the Project according to
the following program:
(a)   prepare and furnish for approval to the Bank Group, not later than
September 30, 1990, a timetable for completion of the mapping of
electric power feeder lines and of unsurveyed villages and
settlements within the territory of the Borrower (para 3.03(a));
(b)   issue by July 1, 1990, the bidding documents for 300 specially
designed meters for peak/off peak pricing; review by June 30, 1991,
the result of the pilot program for load management; and submit to
the Bank Group, by December 31, 1991, its recommendations regarding
the equipment to be employed to restricting the operations of
tubewells, and an action plan for the installatin of such equipment,
beginning January 31, 1993 (para 3.03(b));
(c)   select for electrification under the Project, in a given year, only
those villages which shall have an overall country-wide ratio of
inhabitants (I) to distance in kilometers (K) from the MV grid of
not less than 24 I/K and which satisfy the following additional
criteria: (i) for villages in the provinces of Punjab and Sind, each
village shall have population of not less than 200 inhabitants (I)
and shall not be more than 6 kilometers from the MV grid; and (ii)
for villages in the North West Frontier Province, each village shall
not be more than 20 km from the MV grid and all such villages ahll
have an overall province-wide ratio of not less than 24 I/K.  In
addition, and notwithstanding the above mentioned provisions, any
settlements shall be eligible for electrification under the Project
if it has not less than 200 inhabitants and is not more than one (1)
kilometer away from the NV grid (para 3.08); and
(d)   limit the use of steel lattice poles to areas which are unsuitable
for concrete poles; design and test, not later than December 31,
1991, light prestressed concrete poles which are more suitable for
conductors of a size not greater than 100 sq. mm; complete a study,
not later than December 31, 1990, to assess the advantages of
employing 15 kVA distribution transformers and furnish the findings
and recommendations of the study to the Bank Group for review; and
employ 33-kV primary voltage in sparsely populated areas (para 3.09);
(e)   select the villages to be considered for electrification under the
Project in FY91 and FY92 from the preliminary list of villages
submitted to the Bank Group in May 1989 and furnish to the Bank Group



- 64 -                     Annex 3.14
Page 2 of 2
the final list of villages electrified not later than October 31,
1991 and 1992, respectively; prepare lists of villages to be
considered for electrification under the Project after FY92 and
submit them to the Bank Group for review and comment not later than
March 31 of each such year; and furnish to the Bank Group not later
than October 31 of each year after 1992, the final list of villages
electrified in each such year (para 3.11).



- 65 -                        Annex 4.1
!
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Financial Management Improvement Plan (FMIP)
i
1.     WAPDA would: (i) initiate, not later than July 1, 1990, the process of
separating accounts for rural electrification operations from those of WAPDA's
overall Power Wing Accounts; and (ii) maintain, beginning in FY92, separate
accounts for rural electrification operations, including preparation of year-
end financial statements. GOP would prepare in consultation with the Bar.k
Group and furnish by December 31, 1992, to the Bank Group for review, an
action plan to enable WAPDA to enhance the recovery of cost of RE operations
(para 4.08).
2.    WAPDA would review the security deposit rates at the end of each
financial year and adjust them to reflect the ensuing year's average billing
for each category of consumers (para 4.09).
3.    WAPDA would carry out, by December 31, 1990, a comprehensive aging
analysis of its accounts receivables and by June 30, 1991, adjust its accounts
receivable on its Balance Sheet to reflect only those receivables that are
outstanding for less than three years and those deemed collectible (para
4.10).
4.    WAPDA would review with the Bank Group, not later than June 30 of each
year beginning with 1990, the arrangements for setting aside amounts in a
sinking fund to be used to retire the bonds issued by WAPDA in FY88 and FY89
(para 4.11).
5.    WAPDA is automating the accounting and financial information system for
generation, transmission and other functions (para 4.16).
6.    WAPDA would implement the reorganization plan for the finance function
by December 31, 1990 ([ara 4.17).
7.     WAPDA would furnish to the Bank Group by June 30, 1990, a dated and
monitorable action plan to implement by June 30, 1991, the agreed
recommendations of the Internal Audit Study (para 4.18).
8.    WAPDA would: (a) appoint, not later than June 30, 1990, consultants
whose qualifications, terms of reference and experience are satisfactory to
the Bank Group to complete an actuarial study for the utility 1-y March 31,
1991; and
(b) implement the recommendations of the study by June 30, 1991 (para 4.20).



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT
(RUPEES MILLION)
-------- -Actual----------  (Unaud)  --------------------------FORECAST--------------------------
FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
KWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)        18780   21055  23630  27451   29084  33806  33711  37718  43919  51208  54824  60004  66950  73972
KUh SOLD (MILLIONS)             13756   15504  17745  20702   22221  26030  25957  29043  33818  39430  42214  46203  51552  56958
KWh SOLD/KUh GENERATED(%)          73       74     75     75       76     77      77     77     77      77     77     77      77     77
AVE. REVENUE/KWh SOLD(PAISA)   63.83   74.39  69.61  82.89    93.6  112.8  120.5  129.0  151.9  166.8  174.0  187.6  185.6  187.5
Z INCREASE IN AVE. REVENUE        1.7    16.6   -6.4   19.1    12.9   20.4    6.9    7.0   17.7    9.8    4.3    7.8   -1.1    1.0
AVE. TARIFF/KWh SOLD(PAISA)      52.9    57.6   55.4   59.9    67.6   77.7   89.3   90.2  103.2  113.0  114.1  121.6  121.6  121.6
X INCREASE IN AVE. TARIFF        -0.5      8.8   -3.7    8.1    12.8   15.0   14.9    0.9   14.4    9.6    0.9    6.6    0.0    0.0
OPERATING REVENUE (RS MILLION)
SALES OF ELECTRICITY             7280    8925   9836  12406   15021  20236  23192  26192  34886  44565  48163  56199  62705  69282
FUEL SURCHARGE                   1500    2609   2517   4753    5782   9116   8094  11276  16475  21206  25307  30500  32962  37517
OTHER OPERATtNG REVENUES          212      226    235    464      511    562    618    680    748    823    905    996   1095   1205
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES         8992   11760  12588  17623   21314  29914  31905  38148  52109  66594  74376  87696  96762 108003
OPERATING EXPENSES(RS MILLION)
PURCHASE OF POWER (w/o Fuel)      491      388    143     91        8      0       0    374   4466   6873   7202   7391   7626   7861
FUEL COST                        2406    3200   3714   5465    6300   9116   8319  11589  16932  21794  26010  31347  33876  38558                                  0%
MAINTENANCE                       708      769    872   1037    1230   1834   2147   2479   2868   3365   3975   4721   5587   3021
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION       1758    2096   2370   3100    3169   3644   4191   5029   5784   6651   7649   9179  10555  12139
DEPRECIATION                     1110    1363   1701   2039    2406   2847   3379   3955   4566   5284   6198   7322   8696  10292
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES         6473    7816   8800  11732   13113  17442  18035  23426  34616  43966  51033  59958  66340  71870
NET OPERATING INCOME             2519    3944   3788   5891    8201  12472  13869  14722  17493  22627  23342  27737  30422  36133
OTHER INCOME                      210      206    333    182      200    220    242    266    293    322    355    390    429    472
NET INCOME AVAILABLE FOR FIXED  2729    4150   4121   6073    8401  12693  14111  14989  17786  22950  23697  28127  30851  36605
CHARGES
FIXED CHARGES
..........
INTEREST                         1897    2302   3171   3948    5386   6413   7016   7256   7310   7560   8520   9593  10703  11783
LESS:INTEREST CHARGED CONSTN.    273       385    647    713    1399   1915   1811   1981   2097   2478   3168   3888   4751   5504
INTEREST CHARGED OPERATIONS      1624    1917   2524   3235    3987   4498   5204   5274   5213   5082   5352   5705   5952   6279
INCOME                           1105    2233   1597   2838    4414   8195   8907   9714  12573  17868  18345  22422  24898  30326
LESS:PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT         20       20     20     20       20     20     20      20     20     20      20     20     20      20
NET PROFIT                       1085    2213   1577   2818    4394   8175   8887   9694  12553  17848  18325  22402  24878  30306
RATE OF RETURN ON FIXED ASSETS                                                                                                                                     m X
_----------------------------                                                                                                                                  i~ I
HISTORICALLY VALUED      12.0    14.8   11.5   14.4    17.3   22.0   20.7   18.9   19.6   22.0   19.4   19.4   17.7   17.7
0.
-.2



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEET
(Rupees Million)
----------ActuaL--------- (Unaud)      --------------------------FORECAST-----------------------
ASSETS                          FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96  FY97  FY98
.......                         - -     ---    - -    ---     --     ---    --     ---    ....    ....  ....    ....  ....      ....
FIXED ASSETS
.......... ........... 
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION      34288  43531  54723 62238   74088 88609 104453 121534 139373 162555 191610 226790 270119 317990
LESS:DEPRECIATION RESERVE       7817   9171  10928  12965   15371  18218  21597  25552 30117 35401  41599 48921  57617 67909
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION  26471   34360 43795  49273   58717  70390 82856 95983 109255 127154 150011 177869 212502 250081
WORK IN PROGRESS               10181   10062   9389  14184   17775  21009  23388  25167  26235  34508 43144  52153  64297 70611
.........--- ------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- . ..
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS             36652   44422  53184  63457  76492 91400 106245 121150 135490 161662 193155 230021 276798 320692
CURRENT ASSETS
..............
CASH                             433     504   470    775    2006   1678   1686   2239  3456  4448  5156   6053   6629   7082
INVENTORIES                     1895    2092   3135   3957   3704   3987  5223   6077  6969  8128  9581  11339  13506  15899
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             1770   2270   2502   2858    3873   5085   5424   6485   8859  11321  12644  14908  16450  18361
WATER WING ACCOUNTS              304    311    284    496      521    547   574    603    633   665    698    733    770   808
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS            1459     847   1018   2267    2516  2831   3184   3582  4030  4534  5101   5738  6456   7262
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            5861    6024   7409  10353   12620  14129  16091  18987 23946  29096 33179 38772 43810  49412
TOTAL ASSETS                   42513   50446 60593  73810   89112 105529 122335 140137 159437 190758 226334 268793 320608 370104                                -4
====   = =====   == = = = = = = = ===  ==    -== = = = = == = = = = = = == = = = = = = == = = = =  ==   =
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT           2437    2437   2437  2437   2437  2437   2437  2437  2437  2437  2437   2437  2437  2437
GOVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION  2901    3304   3574   3813    3813   3813   3813  3813   3813  3813  3813   3813   3813  3813
CAPITAL CONTRtBUTION            2027   2750   3781   4907   6204   7666  9269  11030  12961  15079  17403  19952  22748 25813
RETAINED EARNINGS              11632   13760  15319  17952  22346  30521  39408 49102 61655  79503  97828 120230 145109 175415
TOTAL EQUITY                  18997  22251  25111  29109  34800 44436  54927 66381  80865 100832 121481 146433 174106 207477
LONG TERM DEBT                 20349   24740 31412  38457  47400  53424  58787  63795  66431  78422  91893 107468 129818 143952
CONSUMER DEPOSITS                299     325    358    395     494    568   653    751    864   994   1143   1314   1511   1738
INTEREST ACCRUED                1034    1117   1200   1283    1366   1449   1532   1615   1698  1781   1864   1947  2030  2113
CURRENT LIABILITIES             1834    2013   2512   4566    5052  5651   6436   7595  9579  8729   9954  11632  13143  14824
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES  42513   50445  60593  73810  89112 105528 122335 140136 159436 190757 226334 268793 320608 370104                             ed :0
5 = =s== =      - _=        ====== ---= ===== = =   =s= == =   =====m=s====================   
DEST AS X OF DEBT+EOUITY          52      53     56     57      58    55      52    49    45    44        43     42    43    41                                X
EQUITY AS X OF DEBT+EQUITY        48      '7    44      43      42     45    48    51    55    56         57    58      57    59
0o



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(RUPEES MILLION)
----------Actuat----------- (Unaud)  --------------------------FORECAST---------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS                 FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
... ...... ..........            ----.   ....   ... ----   --- -- . --  --       --    --       --    --      --    --       --    --
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
NET INCOME FOR FIXED CHARGES  2729    4150   4121   6073    8401  12693  14111  14989  17786  22950  23697  28127  30851  36605
DEPRECIATION                   1110    1422   1764   2126    2406   2847   3379   3955   4566   5284   6198   7322   8696  10292
SUBTOTAL FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS  3839    5572   5885   8199   10807  15540  17490  18943  22352  28234  29895  35449  39547  46897
GOVERNMENT GRANT                           403    274       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS             449      723   1030   1126    1297   1462   1604   1760   1931   2119   2324   2549   2795   3065
SECURITY DEPOSITS                  24       26     33      37      99     74      85     98    113    130    149    171    197    227
BORROWINGS
RUPEE LOANS                    2115    2547   3628   3361    5700   3665   2796   3838   3273   7671   7581   6168   7442   1846
FOREIGN LOANS                  2854    2571   3991   4665    5000   5553   6798   6310   5238  10423  13469  18053  24495  22625
PROPOSED BANK GROUP LOAN          0        0      0       0       0      0    274    605   1159   1168    340    237         0      0
SUBTOTAL BRROWINGS               4969    5118   7619   8026   10700   9218   9868  10753   9670  19262  21391  24458  31937  24471
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS           9281   11841  14841  17388   22903  26293  29047   1554  34066  49744  53759  62627  74476  74660
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                    CD
PROPOSED PROJECT                  0        0      0       0     646   1005   2254   3423   3763   3013   1539        0       0      0
OTHER CONSTRUCTION             6768    8739   9872  11597   13396  14835  14158  13456  13046  25964  32984  40300  50722  48681
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM   6768    8739   9872  11597   14042  15840  16412  16879  16809  28977  34523  40300  50722  48681
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                       1897    2302   3171   3948    5386   6413   7016   7256   7310   7560   8520   9593  10703  11783
LESS:INTEREST ACCRUED           83       83     83     83       83     83     83      83     83     83      83     83     83      83
AMORTIZATION                    599      725    919    981    1757   3194   4505   5745   7034   7270   7920   8882   9587  10337
SUBTOTAL DEBT SERVICE            2413    2944   4007   4846    7060   9524  11438  12917  14261  14747  16357  18392  20208  22037
PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT              20       20     20     20       20     20      20     20     20      20     20     20     20      20
CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASH                            -68       71    -34    305    1231   -328        7    554   1217    993    708    897    576    452
OTHER THAN CASH                 149       67    976    620      550   1237   1170   1184   1759   5007   2151   3018   2950   3469
NET CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL      81      138    942    925    1781    909   1177   1738   2976   5999   2858   3915   3526   3922
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS      9282   11841  14841  17388   22903  26293  29047  31554  34066  49744  53759  62627  74476  74660                                  >.>
{D X
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO       1.6      1.9    1.5    1.7      1.5    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.9    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.1                                   x
SELF FINANCING RATIO-3 Yr. AVE  36.6    50.0   34.5   44.7    33.1   40.8   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   41.6   49.6                                      4 
0*



- 69 -                 Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 7
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION ROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Income Statement
Sales of Electricity
1.    The forecast sale of electricity is based on projected generation from
WAPDA's plants presented in Annex 4.1, together with purchases from private
sector power plants as follows:
FY90 FY91  FY92 FY93  FY94  FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Private Sector Gen. (GWH)  0    0  490  5421  7885  7885  7865  7885  7885
Fuel Cost (Rs Million)  0    0  290  3464  5330  5586  5732  5914  6097
O&M Debt Service and ROE
Costs (Rs Million)     0    0  375  4466  6873  7202  7390  7626  7861
Total Power Purch.Cost (Rs M)  0    0  665  7930 12203 12768 13122 13540 13958
Details of WAPDA's power purchases from the Private Sector are shown in Annex
4.2, page 7.
Average Revenue Rer kWh Sold
2.    The average revenue per kWh sold reflects the fuel adjustment surcharge,
as well as tariff increase necessary to meet the 40% Internal Cash Generation
Covenant and the Debt Service Coverage Ratio Covenant.
Other ODerating Revenue
3.    Other operating revenue consists principally of miscellaneous services such
as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, reconnection of service,
etc. These revenues are shown to increase by 10% per year based on the increase
of the number of consumers.
Fuel Cost
4.    The projected consumption by type of fuel is shown below:
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Gas (MCF)   113651  96772  93565  90611  101955  108979
HSD (M Lit)    704   331   360   293   387   639
Fuel Oil (MT)  1732  2061  2781  2542  2774   4165
Coal (MT)    26    62    70   458   673   1387
Maintenance Expenses
5.    Maintenance expense is related to plant in service and is forecast at 1.9%
taking into account past experience and the increasing proportion of thermal
plant in the system.
a: income



- 70 -                    Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 7
Ogeration and Administration Expense
6.    Operation and maintenance expense is forecast to increase by 15% annually,
taking into account system expansion, inflation and also past experience.
However, every fourth year, the increase is assumed to be 20% to account for the
general wage increase.
Depreciation
7.    WAPDA is applying a composite rate of depreciation of 3.5%.  This rate is
realistic and has been used in the forecasts.
Other Income
8.    Other income includes interest, sales of scrap and rental of office space,
and is shown to increase by 10% annually.
Payment to Government
9.    WAPDA has been remitting Rs 20 million annually to Government for assets
earlier transferred to WAPDA. Forecasts show this payment continuing.
BALANCE SHEET
Cash
1.    Cash balances are projected on the basis of about six weeks cash operating
expense.
Inventories
2.    Inventories are forecast at 5% of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivables
3.    WAPDA's accounts receivables are forecast to be equivalent to two months'
billings.
Other Current Assets
4.    Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables,  advances and
clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a 5% annual increase.
Current Liabilities
5.    Current liabilities include accounts payabl-, deposits for works to be
carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits, duties payable and accrued
salaries. Based on past experience, current liabilities are forecast at between
25X and 40% of current assets.
a: income



- 71 -                    A        A    2
pag  6-o  7
Security Degosits
6.    Security deposits are forecast to increase at 151 per annum.
Caoital Contributions
7.    Consumers' capital contribution assumed to increase by 10   ml11y.
a: inCan



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ESTIMATED ENERGY PURCHASES FROM PRIVATE SECTOR
FY89     FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96      FY97     FY98
Inflation Estimates                           12.00X   10.00X    8.00X    7.00X    6.50%    6.50X    6.50X    6.50X    6.50X    6.50X
Escalation Factors                                      1.18      1.24     1.28      1.38     1.46     1.53      1.57     1.62      1.67
Generation
Nab River Complex                                        0         0      392     4337      6308     6308     6308      6308     6308
Fauji Fourdation                                         0         0       98     1084      1577     1577     1577      1577     1577
Total Generation                                           0         0      490     5421      7885     7885      7885     7885     7885
Tariffs (Constant 1989 Rs)
Nab River comple.                                     1.06      1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06
Fauji Foundation                                      1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06
Tariffs (Nominal Rs)
Hab RSver complex                                     1.25      1.31     1.36     1.46      1.55     1.62      1.66     1.72     1.77
Fauji Foundation                                      1.25      1.31     1.36     1.46      1.55     1.62     1.66      1.72     1.77
Fuel Costs/kWh (Constant 1989 Rs)
Hab River Complex                                    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463
FauJf Foundation                                     0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463
Fuel Costs/kWh (Nominal Rs)                            0.546    0.574    0.593    0.639    0.676    0.708    0.727    0.750    0.773
Nab River Complex                                    0.546    0.574    0.593    0.639    0.676    0.708    0.727    0.750    0.773
Fauji Foundation
Fuel Costs (Nominal Rs Million)
Nab River Complex                                        0         0      232     2771      4264     4469     4585      4731     4877
Fauji Foundation                                         0         0       58      693      1066     1117      1146     1183     1219
Total Fuel Costs                                           0         0      290     3464      5330     5586      5732     5914     6097
O & N, Debt Serv.& ROE Costs/kWh (Constant 1989 Rs)
Nab River Complex                                    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597
Fauji Foundation                                     0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597
0 & N. Debt Serv.& ROE Costs/kWh (Nominal Rs)
Nab River Complex                                    0.704    0.740    0.764    0.824    0.872    0.913    0.937    0.967    0.997
Fauji Foundation                                     0.704    0.740    0.764    0.824    0.872    0.913    0.937    0.967    0.997
O & N, Debt Service & ROE Costs (Nominal Rs Million)
Nab River Complex                                        0         0      300     3573      5498     5762      5912     6101     6289
Fauji Foundation                                         0         0       75      893      1375     1440      1478     1525     1572
Total O&, Debt Ser.& ROE Costs                            0         0      374      4466     6873     7202      7391     7626      7861
Total Power Purchase Costs (Nominal Rs Million)                                                                                                                        X
Nab River Complex                                        0         0      532      6344     9762    10230    10498    10832    11166                               4 4
FauJi Foundation                                         0         0      133      1586     2441     2558      2624     2708     2792                            °
Grand Total                                                0         0      665      7930    12203    12788    13122    13540    13958



Pakistan
Rural Electrification Project
Water And Power Development Authority
Generation Forecast
 -------------------------------------..-
(GWh)
Thermal Generation
Power Station                       FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95     FY96      FY97      FY98
-- - -- - -                          -.       ----.    . ... ----           ----      ---       ---       ---      . ...     ---..-.. ..........
Guddu                                3671      3418      3599      3290      2861      3063     3193      3499      3395      2975
Multan                                760      1255       605       872       815       915      942      1023       931       905
SPS Faisalabad                        664       706       640       543       421       460       475      512       463       450
GTPS Faisalabad                       632       776       283       112        16        12        12       22        12        12
Sukkur                                249       266       176       149       115       125       129      139       126       125
Hyderabad                             149       175        61        51        41        40       41        45        43        43
Kotri                                 361       573       156        54         1         0         1        4         0         1
Shahdara                              129        62        87        48        11        12       12        17        12        12
Quetta                                388       398       135        90        51        52       53        61        55        55
REPCO/MESCO                            91        84        61        51        41        40       41        45        43        43
Inported Coal                           0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0       747      5166
Guddu GT                             2504         0         0        86        22         0         0        0         0         0
Kot Addu GT                          1672      1806       616       323        66        27        0         0         0         0
Guddu CS                             1098      4240      3471      3164      3686      4516      4707     5157      5019      4399
Jamshoro oil                            0      3156      3107      4130      3263      3537     3661      3965      3602      3492
Kot Addu CS                             0       591      3784      3136      2733      4684      6271     6655      6474      5678
Faisalabad CS                           0         0         0       523       691      735       766       837       817       716
Kotri CS                                0         0         0       469       539       735      766       837       817       716
Lakhra Coal                             0         0         0        22       520       781     1345      1647      2659      2465
Muzaffargarh                            0         0       836      2887      3356      2496      3188     5698      5086      4933
Sonda Coal                              0         0         0         0         0         0        0       245      1388      1232
-----  . ....          ..... -- -  -
Subtotal Thermal                    12368    1750g.    17617    20000    19249    22230    25603    30408    31689    33418
Hydet Generation
Tarbeta                              9826      9471      9357    10119    11880    12845        13028    12930     13C37     13149
Mangla                               5648      5393      4934      5306      5589      5685     5727      5727      5727      5722
Warsak                                733       931      1270      1270      1234      1259      1270     1270      1270      1269
Small Hydet                           493       505       533       533       521       530      533       533       533       533
Chashma                                 0         0         0         0        25       774       778      780       775       773
Taunsa                                  0         0         0         0         0         0        0       471       479       479
Jimnah                                  0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0       546       500
Katabagh                                0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0      5009      9139
Gazi Gharlyala                          0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0      1105
Subtotal Hydet                      16700    16300    16094    17228        19249    21093      21336    21711     27376    32669
Imports (Xenel/Hspel)                                              851      4318      6308      6308      6308      6308      6308
(Mandpur/Panjpir)                                           214       478       520      520       520       520       520
-----     -----    -----     -----     -----     -----     -----     -----     -----
Total Generation                    29068    33806    33711       38293    43294    50151      53767    58947    65893    72915                              P
=====    =====    =====    =====    =====    =====    =====    =====    =====    =====   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POIER DEVELOPNENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EIUENDITURE PROGRAM FY69 - FY96
... ........ ..... .....  ...............    .... . .
(tS NILLUN)
ener ation                        FV%9     FY9S      Ff       FY92     FY93     F94       FT"5     FY96     FY97    *w9
_____..........                   ....     ....      --       ....     ....     .. ..     .. ..    . ...    ...     ...
aM,cc                             83      272        a         0        0        0                  0        0       e
_mnffugrh (l - 3)                781     2239      "a       Wm       2600        a         0        0        a       0
Ntgffar"A  (4 - 6)                 0        S    *             I        0     10t       me       M        4666       6
KIt    C.Tw. tr   - t)    1243            366        0         a        0        0         0        0        0       0
K.t  Au CC (9 & 10)             1178     10       so5       294        0        0         0        0        0       0
Kot Addu CC (11  & 10                       0                 0        0     100       _0       1000     1500     we
J_nhoro OIl I                   1174     1139      a"          a        0        0 °                0        0       0
J_noro Il-IV                    1295     2175    IN?        106      272        0        6         0        0       0
Gitgit Diesel Sts                 15       10         1        0        0        0         0        0        0       0
Guddi CC                           0      160      120       5 se     400        0         0        0        0       0
Therml Rehab.                    465      385      80e       311        0        0         0        0        0       0
Iport. Cost Engr.                 10       22        0         0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Centr. Test Lab.                  25       12       32         0        0        0         0        0        0       0
Tarbela 11-14                    993     1480     1400      1900     2200      802        0         0        0       0
Nangla 9 & 10                     64      180      150       350      560        0         0        0        0       0
P&I Low Head Hydel                30        9         0        0        0        0         0        0        0       0
Dev. of Nirpur                    25        5         0        0        0        0         0        0        0       0
SubtotaL (Ongoing)                7381     9540     7084      6161     5432     2802      3050     4000     5500    2718
New Investments
CoDl F.B.                        120      160      800       900      330        0         0        0        0       0
Lakhra Coat F.8. (4 - 6)           0        0        0         0        0      105      500      1000     1500     295
Lakhra Coal F.B. (7 - 9)           0        0        0         0        0      790     1500      2000     2600     760
Jamsh. 5-7 Engr.                   0        7        0        20       32        0        0         0        0       0
IRported Coal (Unit 1)             0        0        0        0         0     1258     2358     3000      3530    2247
Imported Coal (Unit 2)            0         0        0        0         0     1700     2500     3000      4000    2281
Imported Cosl (Unit 3)             0        0        0        0         0     1000     2000     2400      3200    6162
Imported Coal (Unit 4)             0        0        0        0         0     1000     1500     2400      3200    SOB1
I^ported Coals  Unit 5)            0        0        0        0         0        0      500      1000     2500    4481
Imported Coal (Unit 6)             0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0     1000    3581
Sonda (Unit 1)                     0        0        0         0        0     2900     3500      3800      835       0
Others                             0       88        0       610      870        0         0        0        0       0
Chashjm                           30       30      250       i50     1050      477         0        0        0       0
Basha Engineering                  8       35       50       100      700      232         0        0        0       0
Gazi Ghar. Engr.                  10       15       40        70       90       21        0         0        0       0
Ghazi 6har. (Units 1-2)            0        0        0        50      100     1332     2300      2400     4820    8157
Ghazi Char. (Units 3-4)            0        0        0         0        0        0         0      900     1000    2681                                     0 
Taunsa                             8        0       50       100      300     1700     1700      1800      587       0                                     0 
Jinnah                             0        0        0       100      500     1250     1450      1800     3000     742                                       x
Sub-total (New Inv.)               176      335     1190      2500     3972    13765    19808    25500    31772   36468                                      0
Total (Generation)  7557  9875  8274  8661 9404 16567 22858.2. . 950 .0    372.  3918
Total (Generation)                7557     9875     8274      8661     9404    16567    22858    29500    372722391866



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FY89 - FY98
(RS MILLION)
Transmission                     FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92     FY93     FY94     FY95     FY96      FY97    FY98
Ongoing Investment
Flabad-Mult-Karachi              95        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tarbela-Faisalabod                3        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Faisatabad-Sahiwat                1        1         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Nardan-Peshawar                  39       177      125        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Dadu-Khuzdar                     96      100       230        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Noder.Despatch Cen.             398      250       200      182        0        0        n        0         0       0
A.C Network Modern.              22        8         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Tarbela-Laho'e                   91      400       400      282        0        0        0        0        0        0
Lahore-JamshorO                1228     1312       500     1000      668        0        0        0        0       0
- - - -  . .      - -      - -      . .       - -      .   .    -   -     -
Sub-totat (Ongoing)              1973     2248      1455     1464      668        0        0        0        0        0
New Investment
Trans. PC It                     41        0        58        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Ludewata-Daudkhel                 0        2       600      138        0        0        0        0         0       0
Ptan. St. (PC-11)                 9        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Guddu-Sibi-Quetts                 4       80       400      136        0        0        0        0         0       0
T/L LowHead Hydets.               0        0         0        0       70      225      175        0        0        0
Karachf-Jamshoro                  0        0       500      300      142        0        0        0         0       0                                      1n
Jamshoro-Muttan                   0        0      600      1000      400        0        0        0        0       0
Multan-Lahore                     0        0         0        0      300        0        0        0         0       0
Muzaffarghar-Nuttan               0        0        50       60       35        0        0        0         0       0
Muzaffarghar-Multan               0         0       75       20        0        0        0        0         0       0
Sonda                             0        0         0        0        0      300      400      400       100       0
2nd 500 KY Lahore-Muttan          0        0         0        0        0      700        0        0         0       0
Kot Addu-LoraLai                  0        0       100      200      240        0        0        0        0        0
lst 500KV Kot Addu - Lorela       0        0         0        0        0     1100     1250      100        0        0
3rd 500KV Dadu-Multan             0         0        0        0        0      500      600      900      1600     250
Lakhra-Dadu                       0        0         0        0        0      150      300      400       75       0
Ludewata-Gatti                    0        0         0        0        0      100      300      300      400      iOO
Ludewala-Daudkhet                 0        0         0        0        0       75      150      150      250      50
Peshawar-G. Ghariata              0        0         0        0        0        0        0      200      400      700
500KV 2nd C. Tarbeta-Lahore       0        0         0        0        0        0        0      400      900    1400
Chasma-Multan                     0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0      400      600
Basha-Rewat                       0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0     500
Guddu-Sibbi                       0        0         0        0        0      150      300      400       700     100
Tarbeta-Rewat-Lahore              0        0         0        0        0      175      200      200        0        0
Multan-Guddu                      0        0         0        0        0      100      300      500       750     250
Katabagh-Multan                   0        0         0        0        0      100      450      800      1000     250
Daudkhet-KaLabagh                 0        0         0        0        0       25      100      200       125      50                                    o3
2nd 200KV KaLabagh-Kohat          0        0         0        0        0       25      100      200      400       95                                   oQB
2nd 220KV Kot Addu-Loralai        0        0         0        0        0       10       40      150      250       50                                   o
500KV line to Dadu                0        0         0        0        0      400      800     1200      1600     400
Tarbela - Gatti                   0        0         0        0        0      375        0        0        0       0
Others                            0       61         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Sub-totat (New Inv.)               54       143     2383     1854     1187     4510     5465     6500      8950    4795
Tt (rssi)0  ....  3-    38          15                          ...6   .85       ...4
Total (Transmission)             2027     2391     383E      3318     1855     4510     5465     6500     8950    4795
=__=     ===   ====      ====    ====     ==== _== ===          ====    ===



PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FY89 - FY98
(RS MILLION)
FY89    FY90    FY91       FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95         FY96    FY97    FY96
,,,,   _  _   _ _   ~ ...    ...  ...           ---      --- _..__.__ .   .._._.
Sumrary
Generation                       7557      9875     8274     8661     9404    16567    22858    2500    37272   39186
Transmission                     2027      2391     3838     3318     1855     4510    5465    6500        8950    4795
Sec. T/L & Grid Stn.             1560      1574     1800     2000     2200     3500     3100     2700      2800    2900
Rural Electr.                    1237      1238     1800     2000     2200      200      200       200      200     200
Distrib. of Power                 1299      340      600      700      800     4200     2900      1400     1500    1600
Loss Reduct.& Ld. Mgt.              8      400       100      200      350        0        0        0         0       0
Distribution Rehab.               354         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Others                              0        22        0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Grand Total                     14042    15840    16412    16879    16809    28977   34523    40300    50722   48681
D fD
0*



WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENIT AUTHORITY(WAPDA)
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GENERALI MANAGER - FINANCE (POWER)
[ MEMER (POWER I|
BPtS * 21      
tEiRAL MAGR Ft|                                                  AtNR    t   (Ri
|tttOFER) B M  2      ll                                                   BR  t 
t~~~~~~~~~~3'O ItafS-7.,i 
tS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA Bp 'll 20] lzfor21P  n      
{rg  i  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                          _     L
ItYML IBPS191 efCI ( I°I                                          so
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L L10e -eo   0nnla 
188 * *0, 8P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8~~~~~8R.*TIt
=R~T AL D5TO  oals~                                       C(TO9 ArtTS MsB)l         |RECTR A)mMrS (AE)I           CHItO   AC^TS U(EB)                  CDJ1               oocc -lCtUiT SI A. BI       f|otA ACxiJTS lAtBI|
| AtiAtOEI (BP1.0SIt        )OJPAMIALAI 852J               K tBAfl) IBPS 19)   | IfAISAdABAOI tBRS-191      |     (ItDot)A94  tBPS 191          KIRBD  |ESg                IOUBYTsAIIBPS 191            I P1fSHA.ERI BEPS-19S|)
w - --' 1 - -- - - - 1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W6      Okl k.
814 ^00 98 515.^ ^     .r1  I  *800, ^     .j        L                 *wsi" , ,.s                                    vsrn.,, ..,f*9.t,,,1, ^ , .  9^ >|8
ABBREViATIONS



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS
Number Of Connections
Type Of Connection             FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95    Total
Single Phase
With Mast                  32972    32972    77192   106140   108548    82352    42276   482452
Without Mast               49458    49458   115788   159210   162822   123528    63414   723678
Subtotat                      82430    82430   192980   265350   271370   205880   105690  1206130
Three Phase Connections
Industrial
With 25 kVA Trans.        238      238       558      768       786      597       304     3489
With 50 kVA Trans.        119       119      279      384       393      299       152     1745
With 100 kVA Trans.        24       24        56        77       79       60        30      349
With 150 kVA Trans.        16        16       37       51        52       40        20      233
S o i T .  397      930      120      11         95       5       58
Subtotat Trans.              397      397       930      1280     1310      995       506     5815
Without Trans.               397      397       930      1280     1310      99ff      506     5815
Subtotal Industrial          794      794      1860     2560      2620     1990      1012    11630
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur       1484     1484      3480     4784      4888     3720      1896    21736
With 11 kV Spur           371      371       870     1196      1222      930       474     5434                                                                    t
_ -
Subtotal Agricultural       1855     1855      4350     5980      6110     4650      2370    27170                                                                    °°
Total Connections             85079    85079   199190   273890   280100   212520   109072  1244930
====-_=~~ ==-=    ===  ======   ===~=== ==_==_=====_
Cost Of Each Connection (In Rs, as Of June 1988)
Type Of Connection             FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95
Single Phase
With Mast                   1194     1194      1194     1194      1194     1194      1194
Without Mast                 948      948       948      948       948      948       948
I-'
Three Phase Connections                                                                                                                                        0
industrial
With 25 kVA Trans.      26950    26950    26950    26950    26950    26950    26950
With 50 kVA Trans.      36370    36370    36370    J6370    36370    36370    36370
With 100 kVA Trans.    48990    48990    48990    48990    48990    48990    48990
With 150 kVA Trans.    61170    61170    61170    61170    61170    61170    61170
Without Trans.              3860     3860      3860     3860      3860     3860      3860
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur      26954    26954    26954    26954    26954    26954    26954
Uith 11 kV Spur         53202    53202    53202    53202    53202    53202    53202



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS
FY89     FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95
Inflation Rates CX)           12.00    10.00      8.00     7.00      6.50     6.50      6.50
Escalation Factors             1.06      1.18     1.28      1.38     1.47      1.57     1.67
Type Of Connection         Cost Of Each Connection (Nominal Rupees)
Single Phase
With Mast                   1266      1404     1530     1644      1755     1869      19M
Without Nast                1005      1115     1215     1306      1394     1484      1581
Three Phase Connections
Industrial
With 25 kVA Trans.      28567    31693    34530    37114    39616    42191    44933
With 50 kVA Trans.      38552    42771    46600    50086    53463    56938    60639
With 100 kVA Trans.    51929    57612    62770    67466    72014    76695    81680
With 150 kVA Trans.    64840    71936    78376    84239    89918    95763   101987
Without Trans.              4092     4539      4946     5316      5674     6043      6436
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur      28571    31698    34536    37119    39622    42197    44940
With 11 kV Spur         56394    62566    68167    73266    78205    83289    83702
Cost Of Connections (Nominal Rs million)
~~... .................................... ....... ............._
Type Of Connection             FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95    Total
..... ... ........             --        ...      ....     ....      ....     ....      ...     - *-*- --
Single Phase
With Mast                     42       46       118      175       191      154        84      571
Without Mast                  50        55      141      208       227      183       100      680
Subtotat                         91       101      259      382       417      337       184     1251
Three Phase Connections
Industrial
'dith 25 kVA Trans.         7        8        19       29        31       25        14       93
With 50 kVA Trans.          5        5        13       19        21       17        9        63
With 100 kVA Trans.         1        1         4        5         6        5         2       17
With 150 kVA Trans.         1        1         3        4         5        4         2       14
Subtotal with Trans.          14        15       39       57        63       51        27      187                                                         x
Without Trans.                 2         2        5        7         7        6         3       22                                                         -r,
M O~
Subtotal Industrial           15        17       43       64        70       57        31      210
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur         42       47       120      178       194      157       85       581
With 11 kV Spur            21       23        59       88        96       77       42       287
Subtotal Agricultural         63       70       179      265       289      234       127      868
Total Connections               170       189      482      712       777      628       342     2328



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS
Cost Recovered Per Connection (Rupees)
Type Of Connection             FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95
Single Phase
With Mast                   1266      1404     1530      1644     1755     1869      1991
Without Mast                1005      1115     1215      1306     1394     1484      1581
Three Phase Connections
Industrial
With 25 kVA Trans.      28567    31693    34530    37114    39616    42191    44933
With 50 kVA Trans.      38552    42771    46600    50086    53463    56938    60639
With 100 kVA Trans.    51929    57612    62770    67466    72014    76695    81680
With 150 kVA Trans.    64840    71936    78376    84239    89918    95763   101987
Without Trans.              4092     4539      4946     5316      5674     6043      6436
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur      -1429     1698      4536     7119      9622    12197    14940
With 11 kV Spur         26394    32566    38167    43266    48205    53289    58702
Cost Of Connections Recovered (Rs Million)
Type Of Conmection             FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95    Total
Single Phase                                                                                                                                                        Co
With Mast                     42       46       118      175       191      154        84      809                                                               0
Without Mast                  50        55      141      208       227      183       100      964
Subtotal                         91       101      259      382       417      337       184     17m
Three Phase Connections
Industrial
With 25 kVA Trans.          7        8        19       29        31       25        14      132
With 50 kVA Trans.          5        5        13       19        21       17        9        89
With 100 kVA Trans.         1         1        4        5         6        5         2       24
With 150 kVA Trans.         1         1        3        4         5        4         2       20
Subtotal with Trans.          14        15       39       57        63       51        27      265                                                X m
Without Trans.                 2         2        5        7         7        6         3       32                                                 iJ
Agricultural
Without 11 kV Spur         -2        3        16       34        47       45       28       171
With 11 kV Spur            10       12        33       52        59       50       28       243
Subtotal Agricultural          8        15       49       86       106       95        56      414
Total Recoveries                114       133      351      532       593      489       271     2484



- 81 -                                     Annex 5.1
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Total Sales of Electricity
(GWH/YEAR)
YEAR Residential  CommerciaL Agriculture Industry    Total
1989          18            0         33        10        62
1990          38            1         66        21       126
1991          85            2        ¶44        46       277
1992         152           3         252        83       490
1993         227            5        364       123       718
1994         294           6         453       156       910
1995         346           7         504       180      1038
1996         377           8         515       192      1092
1997         409           8         526       202      1145
1998         441           9         537       209      1195
1999         473           9         547       215      1244
2000         506           10        558       219      1293
2001         541           10        570       223      1344
2002         579           11        581       228      1399
2003         620           12        593       232      1456
2004         663           12        604       237      1517
2005         709           13        617       242      1581
2006         759           14        629       247      1648
2007         812           15        641       252      1720
2008         869           16        654       257      1795
2009         930           17        667       262      1875
2010         995           18        681       267      1960
2011        1064           19        694       272      2050
2012        1139           20        708       278      2145
2013        1219           21        722       283      2245
2014        1304           22        737       289      2352
2015        1395           24        752       295      2465
2016        1493           25        767       301      2585
2017        1597           27        782       307      2713
2018        1709           28        798       313      2848
21762         392      16694       6439    45288



- 82 -
Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumption and Calculations for the Least Cost Analysis
Assumption
1.    The least-cost analysis is based on a representative village of 33
households (200 inhabitants) with one commercial establishment and one tubewell.
2.    The village was considered saturated, once electricity was supplied to 80%
of the households. Of the potential household consumers, 40% were assumed to
be connected in the first year, 25% in the second year, 15% in the third year,
with saturation being reached in the fourth year. As for the commercial and
agricultural consumers, these were to be connected in the first year. Forecast
of electricity consumption by consumer category is presented in Attachment 1.
3.    For the grid supply option, two 15 kVA transformers would be required, the
cost of which is Rs 24,000 (excluding taxes and duties).
4.    The cost of an 11-kV line (excluding taxes and duties) is estimated at
Rs 39,000/km.
5.   The cost of electricity supply is based on the average longrun marginal
cost at the LV level of Rs 1.3/kWh in 1989 prices.
6.    For the isolated generating system, a 14 kw diesel would be used for the
first ten years to supply electricity to the representative village. From year
11 to 20, a 20 kw set would be needed which, in turn, would be replaced with a
30 kw set in year 21.  The average cost of a medium-speed diesel generator,
including installation is assumed at Rs 20,000/kw.
7.    Specific fuel consumption of the diesel generator is estimated to be 0.36
litres/kWh.
8.    Cost of diesel is assumed at Rs 4/litre.
9.    Cost of lubricants is assumed at 10% of the fuel cost.
10.   Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 5% of the capital cost.
11.   Discount Rate:  10%.
12.   Economic Life of the diesel generator:  10 years.
13.   Economic lifetime of the Project:  30 years.
c:\wp5O\anne\re\annex5-2



- 83 -
Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 2
Least Cost Analysis
14.   The least cost criteria involves determining the distance from the grid
at which the cost of supplying electricity from an isolated diesel generator
breaks-even with the cost of connecting a village to the national grid. The cost
streams for the two alternatives and their present values are presented in
Attachment 2.   The present values of the costs associated with supplying
electricity from the national grid and from an isolated generating system are
Rs 435,546 and Rs 1,140,737, respectively.
15.   The break-even distance X - length of the 11-kV line used to connect a
village to the grid. Unit cost per km of this ll-kV - Rs 39,000. Therefore:
435,546 + 39,OOOX - 1,140,737
Average length of the ll-kV line - X - Rs 705.1918 - 18.1 km
Rs 39,000
This translates into a ratio of inhabitants per kilometer of about 11 I/K.
c:\\wp5O\anne\re\annex5-2



- 84 -
Annex 5.2
Attachment 1
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF ELECTRICITY SALES
FOR A SAMPLE VILLAGE OF 33 HOUSEHOLDS
(KWH)
Households
# of Consumers Consumptionl/       Total                                 Total
Year      Connected       Year/HH Consumption    Agricultural Commercial    Sales
1             13           225        2925           17600         345    20870
2              8           245        4985           17900         360    23245
3              4           270        6370           18300         380    25050
4              2           300        7490           18650         400    26540
5                          330        8260           19100         425    27785
6                          353        8970           19482         451    28903
7                          378        9656           19872         477    30005
8                          404       10350           20269         506    31125
9                          433       11075           20675         536    32286
10                          463       11850           21088         568    33507
11                          495       12680           21510         602    34792
12                          530       13567           21940         638    36146
13                          567       14517           22379         677    37573
14                          607       15533           22827         717    39077
15                          649       16620           23283         760    40664
16                          695       17784           23749         806    42339
17                          743       19029           24224         E54    44107
18                          795       20361           24708         905    45975
19                          851       21786           25203         960    47948
20                          910       23311           25707        1017    50035
21                          974       24943           26221        1078    52242
22                         1042       26689           26745        1143    54577
23                         1115       28557           27280        1212    57049
24                         1193       30556           27826        1284    59666
25                         1277       32695           28382        1362    62439
26                         1366       34984           28950        1443    65377
27                         1462       37432           29529        1530    68491
28                         1564       40053           30119        1622    71794
29                         1674       42856           30722        1719    75297
30                         1791       45856           31336         1822    79014



- 85 -                                    Annex 5.2
Attachment 2
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES FOR
THE GRID AND DIESEL OPTIONS
(IN RUPEES)
Cost of Grid Supply                      Cost of Diesel Option
Capital  Economic Cost    Total       Capital      O&M       Fuel       Lub.    Total
Year     Cost      of SUPPLY      Cost         Cost     Cost       Cost       Cost     Cost
1    24000          27131    51131        280000    14000      30053      3005   327058
2                   30219    30219                  14000      33473      3347    50820
3                   32565    32565                  14000      36072       3607    53679
4                   34502    34502                  14000      38218       3822    56039
5                   36121    36121                  14000      40010      4001    58011
6                   37574    37574                  14000      41621      4162    59783
7                   39007    39007                  14000      43208      4321    61529
8                   40463    40463                  14000      44821       4482    63303
9                   41971    41971                  14000      46491       4649    65141
10                   43559    43559                  14000      48249      4825    67074
11                   45230    45230        400000    20000      50100      5010   475110
12                   46990    46990                  20000      52050      5205    77255
13                   48844    48844                  20000      54105      5410    79515
14                   50800    50800                  20000      56271      5627    81898
15                   52863    52863                  20000      58556      5856    8412
16                   55040    55040                  20000      60968      6097    87064
17                   57339    57339                  20000      63514      6351    89865
18                   59767    59767                  20000      66203      6620    92824
19                   62333    62333                  20000      69046      6905    95950
20                   65045    65045                  20000      72050      7205    99255
21                   67914    67914        600000    30000      75228      7523   712751
22                   70950    70950                  3nooo      78591       7859   116450
23                   74163    74163                  30000      82150      8215   120365
24                   77566    77566                  30000      85919      8592   124511
25                   81170    81170                  30000      89911      8991   128903
26                   84989    84989                  30000      94142      9414   133556
27                   89038    89038                  30000      98627      9863   138490
28                   93332    93332                  30000     103383      10338   143721
29                   97886    97886                  30000     108428      10843   149270
30                  102719   102719                  30000     113781      11378   155159
Net Present Value=            435,546      Net Present Value=           1,140,737



- 86 _
Annex 5.3
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumptions and Calculations for the Rate of Return
COSTS
1.       Capital Costs.  Investment expenditures on civil works, material and
equipment, including physical contingencies, but excluding customs duties and
taxes, and price contingencies amount to about Rs 10,243 million.   Details
relating to the phasing of expenditures are shown below.
Base Cost Including Physical Contingencies
(Rs Million)
Local                         Foreign              Total
Skilled    Unskilled
Materials    Labor        Labor
FY89        30.7        68.3        99.9           313.5                512.3
FY90        45.4       101.1       147.8           461.2                755.5
FY91        94.2       209.5      306.4            962.3             1,572.4
FY92       134.9       300.1      438.8          1,397.0             2,270.9
FY93       141.0       313.6      458.5          1,486.8             2,399.9
FY94       107.0       238.0       348.1         1,147.0             1,840.1
FY95     _ 52.4        116.6      170.5            552.38               891.9
TOTAL      605.6    1,347.3    1,969.9           6,320.1            10,242.9
2.       Local Costs were expressed in their equivalent border prices using the
following conversion factors: capital goods at 0.85 of the domestic prices; and
skilled and unskilled labor at 0.97 and 0.89 of the domestic wage rate.
3.       Annual Operations and Maintenance Costs (O&W).  These are estimated at
2X of the capital cost associated with the proposed Project.
4.       Economic Cost of SUpDlV.  The long run marginal cost of electricity
supply of Rs 1.3/kWh, inclusive of losses in generation, transmission and
distribution, represents the economic cost of electricity supply to the
beneficiaries.
c:\wp5O\anne\re\justifi



- 87 -
Dmx L5.3
Page 2 of 3
BENEFITS
5.       The measurable benefits associated with the proposed Project include
revenues associated with incremental electricity sales. These were calculated
on the basis of the costs incurred by the various consumer categories on fuels
to be displaced by electricity for meeting their energy needs, which were taken
as a proxy of the consumers' willingness to pay. These were estimated separately
for each consumer  .ategory.   Details are presented in Attachment 1.   The
estimated willingness to pay is Rs 2.5/kWh for residential consumers, Rs 3.5/kWh
for commercial consumers, Rs 1.9/kWh for agricultural consumers and Rs 2.2/kwh
for industrial consumers. These estimates were then weighted by the relative
shares of electricity consumed by each consumer category to obtain a weighted
average measure of the consumers' willingness to pay. The relative shares in
FY95, when the physical implementation of the proposed Project is expected to
be completed are: 33.3X for residential consumers; 0.71 for commercial consumers;
48.6X for agricultural consumers; and 18.41 for industrial consumers.   This
results in a weighted average measure of the consumers' willingness to pay of
about Rs 2.1/kWh.
c:\wp5O\anne\re\justifi



- 88 -                                           Annex 5.3
Page 3 of 3
Pakistan
Rural Electrification ProJect
Internal Economic Rate Of Return
FY    TOTAL   CAPITAL       OIN ECONOMIC       TOTAL       REVENUES           NET
YEAR   SALES 1/   COST 2/ COST        COST       COST      FROM SALES    BENrFITS
 --   ---------.------     ....  ........   . ..          -  -  --       -
1989       62    473.8       9.5     80.6       563.9          130.2        -433.7
1990      126    624.5      22.0    163.8       810.3          264.6        -545.7
1991      277   1357.6      49.1    360.1      1766.8          581.7       -1185.1
1992      490   1913.5      87.4    637.0      2637.9         1029.0       -1608.9
1993      718   1959.2    126.6    933.4       3019.2         1507.8       -1511.4
1994      910   1472.8    156.0   1183.0       2811.8         1911.0        -900.8
1995     1038    739.7    170.8   1349.4       2259.9         2179.8         -80.1
1996     1092      -       163.2   1419.6      1582.8         2293.2         710.4
1997     1145      -       163.2   1488.5      1651.7         2404.5         752.8
1998     1195      -       163.2   1553.5      1716.7         2509.5         792.8
1999     1244      -       163.2   1617.2      1780.4         2612.4         832.0
2000     1293      -       163.2   1680.9      1844.1         2715.3         871.2
2001     1344      -       163.2   1747.2      1910.4         2822.4         912.0
2002     1399      -       163.2   1818.7      1981.9         2937.9         956.0
2003     1456      -       163.2   1892.8      2056.0         3057.6        1001.6
2004     1517      -       163.2   1972.1      2135.3         3185.7        1050.4
2005     1581      -       163.2   2055.3      2218.5         3320.1        1101.6
2006     1648      -       163.2   2142.4      2305.6         3460.8        1155.2
2007     1720      -       163.2   2236.0      2399.2         3612.0        1212.8
2008     1795      -       163.2   2333.5      2496.7         3769.5        1272.8
2009     1875      -       163.2   2437.5      2600.7         3937.5        1336.8
2010     1960      -       163.2   2548.0      2711.2         4116.0        1404.8
2011     2050      -       163.2   2665.0      2828.2         4305.0        1476.8
2012     2145      -       163.2   2788.5      2951.7         4504.5        1552.8
2013     2245      -       163.2   2918.5      3081.7         4714.5        1632.8
2014     2352      -       163.2   3057.6      3220.8         4939.2        1718.4
2015     2465      -       163.2   3204.5      3367.7         5176.5        1808.8
2016     2585      -       163.2  3360.5       3523.7         5428.5        1904.8
2017     2713      -       163.2   3526.9      3690.1         5697.3        2007.2
2018     2848      -       163.2   3702.4      3865.6         5980.8        2115.2
Internal Rate Of Return=               10.9X
1/  As a conservative measure, sales represent the total sales of customers that
would be connected within the project implementation period. Incremental
sales due to the connection of new customers after 1995 are not included in
the analysis.
2/  On the average, the capacity of the equipment installed during the first
year will suffice to satisfy the projected demand to year 2018 of the
customers connected under the Project. Additional customers will be
served through the installation of additional distribution transformers
and  service  drops.



8.9 -                          Annex 5.3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumptions and Calculations for
Consumers' Willingness to Pay
I. Regidential Consumers
1.    For lighting purposes, about 70X of the rural families are using a single
kerosene wick lamp for four hours/day and about 301 are using a pressurized lamp
for the same length of time.   The discounted weighted average annual cost
incurred by these consumers is about Rs 361. Assumptions relating to cost of
equipment, maintenance and fuel is presented below:
Wick T-                  Pressurized &am=
Capital Costs              Rs 3.                     Rs 1,000
Economic Life              2 years                   3 years
0 & M Costs
Glass                 Rs 1/year                   Rs 30/year
Wick                  Rs 3/year
Grid/Mantle            -                          Rs 20/year
Kerosene Consumption    0.02 litre/hour              0.04 litre/hour
Price of kerosene        Rs 5.50/litre               Rs 5.50/litre
Discount Rate               10X                         10X
Discounted Annual
Cost of Operation       Rs 184                      Rs 773
2.    The above 1ghting needs could be met through the use of a 60 watt bulb
and a 75 watt bulb, respectively. The total annual consumption of electricity
for this purpose would amount to 95 kWh/year.  Access to electricity would,
however, require the following outlays:
Capital Cost
Cost of connection                    Rs 830
Cost of internal wiring               Rs 150
O & M Cost
60 watt bulb                          Rs 20/yr
75 watt bulb                          Rs 30/yr
The discounted annual cost of these outlays, over their economic life of 30 years
is about Rs 127.
3.    Based on the above cost estimates the residential consumers' willingness
to pay for electricity for meeting their lighting requirement is the discounted



-90  -                          Annex 5.3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
annual cost of using kerosene lamps less the discounted annual cost of
electricity supply which amounts to Rs 234 for a total consumption of about 95
kWh or about Rs 2.5/kWh.
IH. Commercial ConsuQers
1.    For lighting purposes about 40X of the commercial consumers are using a
single kerosene wick lamp for six hours/day and about 601 are using a pressurized
lamp for the same length of time. The discounted weighted average annual cost
incurred by these consumers is about Rs 666. Assumptions relating to cost of
equipment, maintenance and fuel is presented below:
Wick L^mp               Pressurized LEMn
Capital Costs             Rs 35                     Rs 1,000
Economic Life             2 years                   3 years
0 & M Costs
Glass                Rs 1/year                   Rs 30/year
Wick                 Rs 3/year
Grid/Mantle           -                          Rs 20/year
Kerosene Consumption    0.02 litre/hour             0.04 litre/hour
Price of kerosene       Rs 5.50/litre               Rs 5.50/litre
Discount Rate               10                        10
Discounted Annual
Cost of Operation      Rs 265                      Rs 934
2.    The above lighting needs could be met through the use of a 60 watt bulb
and a 75 watt bulb, respectively. The total annual consumption of electricity
for this purpose would amount to 151 kWh/year. Access to electricity would,
however, require the following outlays:
Capital Goals
Cost of connection           Rs 830
Cost of internal wiring       Rs 150
o  i    CoQalI
60 watt bulb                 Rs 20/yr
75 watt bulb                 Rs 30/yr
The discounted annual cost of these outlays, over their economic life of 30 years
is about Rs 130.
3.    Based on the above cost estimates the commercial consumers' willingness
to pay for electricity for meeting their lighting requirement is the discounted
annual cost of using kerosene lamps less the discounted annual cost of
electricity supply which amounts to pay Rs 536 for a total consumption of about
151 kWh or about Rs 3.5/kWh.



Annex 5.3
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
III. Agricultural Consumers
1.    For irrigation pumping agricultural consumers are using an 6 horsepower
diesel motor with an economic life of ten years for an average of 2,160
hours/year. The discounted annual cost incurred by these consumers is about Rs
24,187, based on the following assumptions relating to the cost of equipment,
maintenance and fuel:
Capical Cost including installacion
8 HP motor                                      Rs 20,000
Economic Life                                   10 Years
0 & M Cost
Fuel                                            Rs 18,662
Lubricant                                       Rs  1,866
0 & M                                           Rs    400
Specific fuel consumption                       0.36 litres/hr/HP
Price of diesel                                 Rs 4/litre
Discount rate                                   10%
2.    The above requirement for irrigation pumping could be met with a total
consumption of electricity of about 9,590 kWh/year of electricity, access to
which would require the following outlays.
MV line                                         Rs 25,000
15 kVA transformer                              Rs 20,000
Service Drop                                    Rs  1,800
Meter                                           Rs    500
The discounted annual cost of these outlays over their economic life of about
30 years is about Rs 5,017.
3.    Based on the above estimates, ttie agricultural consumers' willingness to
pay for electricity for irrigation pumping is the discounted annual cost of
operating a diesel pump less the discounted annual cost of electricity supply,
which amounts to Rs 19,170 for a total consumption of about 9,590 kWh, or about
Rs 1.9/kWh.
IV. Industrial Consumers
1.    Small industrial consumers are presently using 5 horsepower diesel motors
for about 5,260 hours/years for operating their equipment. The discounted annual
cost incurred by these consumers is about Rs 43,143. Assumptions relating to
capital, fuel aiid 0 & M cost are presented below.
Capital Cost
5 HP motor                                      Rs  8,124
Economic Life                                   10 Years



Annex 5.3
- 92 -                             Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
M S M Cost
Fuel                                             Rs 37,872
Lubricant                                        Rs  3,787
0 & M                                            Rs    162
Specific fuel consumption                        0.36 litres/hr/HP
Price of diesel                                  Rs 4/litre
Discount rate                                    10%
The above requirement of these consumptions could be met with a total consumption
of electricity of about 19,462/kWh/year.   This would require the following
outlays:
Capital Cost
Service Drop                                    Rs 1,800
Meter                                            Rs   500
Internal wiring                                  Rs 1,000
The discounted annual cost of these outlays over their economic life of 30 years
is about Rs 350.
2.    Based on the above estimates, the industrial consumers' willingness to pay
for electricity is the discounted annual cost of operating diesel motor less the
discounted annual cost of electricity supply, which amounts to Rs 42,793 for a
total consumption of 19,462 kWh or about Rs 2.2/kWh.



IBRD 16248R1
64'                                        6d'8*  72'                                          U  S :) R U
~~~'CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                            .                                          l
-36                                .      NATIONAL CAPITAL
O   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
-        |  |  RAILWAYS
+      AIRPORTS                                                                 LF,o,sod,       \       A           £'. 1C COr/
-  -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                            dS AMA9AD
- -   RIVERS                                                                                .aaoad. JAMW\U and KASHMR
32-                                                                                     godho                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32-
.J   AFGHANISTAN                         6  
4      .   t ND!A
tKn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lot {t ~27
-28 '                                                                           $ < tt g 28'-
ISLAMIC                                                                                             *
REPUBLIC OF  j*
I RAN             .                            -andOo                                                                   oo        200       300       400
(KLOMETERS
01     50      I0      ISO      700     250
(                                                B --   q   Mela  \    \5z Nowobshoh                                          MILES
,K's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '^O " ,,)                                                         PW g    b
f _r; < ~~~~~^-- \ tb , aHyderobod \ ^> ^, <,Ws k s sS^ *X-'>3~~~~~~~~~~I, ..-- 
Bubpj Pi.        chi                                                      -d-ma osz o t r O E
N    f             yeeCoorsorea-crne
-24'                                                                 \¢/  \<            Bod.n             d, >                   on rs wo rlo nof vr. or me      WA--
|rs oS a- rae .a re 5 ak
BssteIi                                              '!                  Carp-sS.aM T98 7a
fee4 1hktersda O'Ss-e
seed se a aedsd  e,,
24~~~~~~~6-I
paid raeitaMABCaHsa1 ro



IBRD 16248R1
CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                          .' ,'
3     NATIONAL CAPITAL
o     CITIES AND TOWNS
-    NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAIL'WVAYS                                                  .'                         (
+      AIRPORTS                                                              Char ode          \   NAaara,.e,a L. o' Ce'n'o'
-  -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIE-
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                 (~..aP.sdwa
RIVERS                                                                          Ri            JAMMU and KASHMR
j      AFGHANISTAN                                                                           ' _ 
Ju XV                                                                                                                                         /  - ND|
- 28*   t                  t   + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Jocoho                             / ~~~~~~rgd                            28-
INDIA~~~~~~~
ISLAMIC   i                                                   j                 SCk/ar
REPUBLIC OF i-.
I RAN                                                                                                               0 1°0    200       300       400
*JBtela  \   (  <iNaaabshoh                            °            50  1O    50       200     250
_'i_,  (    , \   SoIm ; g Hfy/derobad                        Tbh W-d ba. S bb --eWth
Biet,Ii Pt.   -ai                                                      eder end a aeeteala', I, bi
sere , hi Th. \ld be- i
tad ro P n. aeo enh FeidnCa
Cdus,ar-eel M deuetcrl reiie
°24'                                                                                                                       a"  ?m
Wa'r W.d bi ,d bib
an                                                                      arlerneieeiar Firefly. Cdrbaeaybuif1cv=
MARCH 1987



