Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11547-IRN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
MARCH 5, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
1 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As of January 1993)
US$1.00 - Rls 1,450
Rls 1.00 - US$0.000689
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENT
1 millimeter (mm)                         -       0.04 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                         -       0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                               -       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                          -       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                  -       0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CBI                      -       Central Bank of Iran
CIF                      -       Cost, Insurance & Freight
DC                       -       Direct Contracting
DHC                      -       District Health Center
DPT                      -       Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus
FP                       -       Family Planning
GOI                      -       Government of The Islamic Republic of Iran
HH                       -       Health House
ICB                      -       Intemational Competitive Bidding
IEC                      -       Information, Education and Communication
IRN                      -       Iran
IS                       -       Intemational Shopping
LCB                      -       Local Competitive Bidding
LIB                      -       Limited International Bidding
MEAF                     -       Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHME                    -       Ministry of Health and Medical Education
NPMC                     -       National Primary Health Care Management Center
O&M                      -       Operation and Maintenance
PBO                      -       Plan and Budget Organization
PHC                      -       Primary Health Care
PIU                      -       Project Implementation Unit
Rls                      -       Iranian Rials
RHC                      -       Rural Health Center
SOE                      -       Statement of Expenditures
TOR                      -       Terms of Reference
UHC                      -       Urban Health Center
UNFPA                    -       United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF                   -       United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR
MARCH 21 - MARCH 20



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
S AA ISALREPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
HEALTH AND POPULATION  DATA SHEET  ............................. i
Loan and Project Summary  ................... ......................  iv
1:     INTRODUCTION  AND BACKGROUND ............................ 1
2:  HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES                                        .          .     2
Health Policies, Services and programs .............................. 2
Main Sector Issues .       .......................................... 5
Bank Experience with Lending in the Sector ........................... 6
Government Health Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement ....               .......... 7
3:. THEPROJEC[.9
3  _   T   E PR   J C     .......................................                            .   . 
Service Delivery.                                                                           9
Primary Health Care Network .................................. 9
Health Management Development  .........                ..................... 10
- The National Primary Health Care Management Centre  ....               ............ 10
- Health Management Information System   .......              .................. 11
The National Family Planning Program   ........                 ................... 12
Provision of new Contraceptive options ........             ................... 12
Management Strengthening .        ..................................  13
Information-Education-Communication (EEC) Canpaigns  .....                ........... 14
Evaluation and Research ..................................... 14
Health Care Financing ....................................... 14
4:   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . 15
Project Costs and Financing ................. 15
Procurement ..................                                                             16
Disbursement ................. 21
Project Accounts and Audits ................. 22
Tlis report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Iran from January 8 to 22, 1993. Mission
members included Bassam Ramadan (Task Mufger-MN2PH), Albect Sales (H"elth Specislist-MN2PE), Rodolfo Bulaho
(Sr. Demographer-PHRDR), C.P. Ranganathan (Sr. Procurement Engineer-EClDR), Housein Akhavan (Information
Technology Specialist-EMTDR) and Farrokh Sabouri (Architect-Consultant). Iqbal Kaur, Caroline Lambert (MN2P
and Stacye Brown (PHRHN) sisted with report preparation. Peer Reviewers: Xavier Coll (A3HR), Mary Young
(PHRHN), Mazia MacDonald (ASTPH) and Sverrir Sigurdsron (EMTPH).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  ........................ 22
Project Management and Implementation  ............................  23
Project Sustainability .          ........................................ 24
Environmental Considerations  ...........                      ........................  24
Status of Project Preparation . .................................... 24
5:      BENEFITS AND  RISKS    .....................................  25
6:    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............... 26
ANNEXES
A       Organizational Diagrams of MOHME  ..............................  27
B        The Health Care Delivery System  in Iran  ............................ 31
C       The Primary Health Care Network  ................................  34
D        The National Family Planning Program   .............................  39
E       Summary Cost Tables ........................................  52
F       Project Action Plan   .            ........................................  57
G       Project Supervision Plan  ......................................  62
H       Project Monitoring and Evaluation System   ............................  64
I       Project Implementation Unit - TOR   ...............................  68
J        Technical Assistance under the Family Planning Component - TOR  ............ 75
K        Health Care Financing Study - TOR  ...............................  78
L       Selected Documents in the Project File   .............................  82
TABLES
In Text
3.1     Projected consumption of contraceptive methods supplied by MOHME  and number to be
provided under the project, Iran, 1992-97 ............................ 13
4.1  Project Cost Summary .                   ....................................... 17
4.2     Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures ...................  18
4.3     Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ......................  19
4.4     Disbursement Categories and Amount ..............................  20
4.5     Disbursement Schedule  .......................................  20
In Annexes
C. 1    Rural Health Infrastructure in the 14 Provinces  ........................ 35
C.2     Urban and District Health Infrastructure in the 14 Provinces  ................ 35
C.3     RHCs to be established under the project ............................  36



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
C.4   Requirement for the main categories of paramedical personnel under the project and
estimated training capacity in the project area  ......................... 37
C.5   Current and Projected Health Coverage in the 14 Provinces  ................ 38
D. 1   Four Scenarios for Fertility and Contraceptive Prevalence, Iran, 1992-97  ... ..... 41
D.2   Assumed Contraceptive Method Mix and MOHME Share of Users, Iran, 1992 and 1997
(percentages) ............          ................................. 42
D.3   Projected Contraceptive Users, Acceptors, and Consumption, by method, MOHME, Iran,
1992-97: Base run .......................................... 42
D.4   Training Plan for New Contraceptive Methods, MOBME, 1993-97 ....         ........ 45
D.5   Training Plan for Expanded Population and Family Planning (PFP) Department and
Provincial Health Offices Staff, MOHME, 1993-97  ..................... 48
E. 1   Projects Components by Year ................................... 52
E.2   Project Cost Summary  ....................................... 53
E.3   Summary Accounts by Year .................................... 54
E.4   Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures ................... 55
E.5   Project Components by Year, Total Including Contingencies ................ 56
F. 1   Project Procurement Plan ...................................... 59
F.2   Implementation Schedule for the Service Delivery Component ............... 60
F.3   Implementation Schedule for the Family Planning Component ................ 61
G. 1   Supervision Plan for the Service Delivery Component .................... 62
G.2   Supervision Plan for the Family Planning Component .................... 63
H. 1   Monitoring and Performance Indicators for the Service Delivery Component ... ... 66
H.2   Monitoring and Performance Indicators for the Family Planning Component ... ... 67
FIGURES
D. 1   MOHME-Supplied Contraceptive Users and Acceptors, Iran, 1992-97: Four Scenarios 43
D.2   Proposed Structure of the Population and Family Planning Department, MOHME . . . 46
MM: IBRD No. 24500
Approving Regional Vice President: Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President
Approving Director:               Mr. Ram K. Chopra, Director
Approving Division Chief:         Mr. Douglas H. Keare, Division Chief






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PRO.ECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA                                           Year  Source
1. Area (million Km2)                                      1.6   1991  1
2. Population (million)                                    58    1991  2
3. Population Density per Km2                              35.1  1991  2
4. Average Annual GDP Growth Rate (%)                      7.0   1991  3
5. Total Government Expenditure as % of GNP                 11.9  1990  3
6. Urban Population as % of Total                          57    1991  2
B. DEMOGRAPHIC
1. Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                             41    1988  3
2. Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                             9      1988  3
3. Population Growti Rate (%)                              3.2   1991  1
4. Population in Age Groups (%)
0-14                     55    1991  1
15-64                     42    1991  1
65+                       3      1991  1
5. Population Projection (million)                         78    2000  4
6. Sex Ratio                                               105   1986  5
7. Mean Female Marital Age (years)                         20    1991  6
8. Total Fertility Rate-
Average No. of Children per Woman                    5.2   1988  1
9. Women of Childbearing Age Using
Contraceptives (%)                                   64    1991  1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION DATA
1. Public Health Care Expenditures as % of GDP             3.2   1991  7
2. Health Expenditures as % of
Total Government Budget                              17.6  1991  7
3. Population per Physician                                2780  1987  3
4. Population per Hospital Bed                             642   1987  3
5. Access to Health Care (% of pop.)                       70    1991  1
6. Maternal Mortality
(per 100,000 live births)                            51    1991  1
Urban                                                29    1991  1
Rural                                                80    1991  1
7. Infant Mortality Rate-
Both Sexes (per 1000)                                37    1992  6
8. Under Five Mortality (per 1000)                         41    1991  1



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd)
9. Births Attended by Health Staff (%)                             76     1981   1
10. Immunized--Under 12 Months
(% of age group)
Measles                                                    83      1991   6
Polio                                                      87      1991   6
DPT                                                        87      1991   6
11. Tetanus Coverage among Pregnant Women (%)                      78     1991   6
12. Oral Rehydration Therapy Use--
Under 5 (% of cases)                                       38.1   1991   6
13. Daily Calorie Supply (calories per person)                     3100   1988  3
14. Daily Protein Supply (grams per person)                        81     1988  3
15. Low Birth Weight Infants (% under 2.5 Kg)
Urban                                                      6       1991   6
Rural                                                      7       1991   6
LITERACY
1. Literacy Rate 6 years + (%)                                     74.3   1991   2
Urban                                                      82.5   1991   2
Rural                                                      63.1   1991   2
PRODUCTIVITY
1. Employment in the Active Population (%)                         88.6   1991   2
Urban                                                      89.5   1991   2
Rural                                                      87.4   1991   2
2. Unemployment in the Active Population (%)                       11.4   1991   2
Urban                                                      10.5   1991   2
Rural                                                       12.6   1991   2
Sources:
1.     The Islamic Republic of Irmn and UNICEF; UNICEF Program of Co-Operation 1993-1997; Master
Plan of Operations, September 2, 1992.
2.     The Statistical Center of Iran: Population and Manpower Bureau, 1991 Census.
3.    Iran: Reconstruction and Economic Growth, July 30, 1991.
4.     Social Indicators of Development, 1991-92, The World Bank.
5.     A Statistical Reflection of The Islamic Republic of Iran No.8, 1991.
6.     Situation Analysis of Women and Children in the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ministry of Health and
Medical Education, Ministry of Education and UNICEF, September 2, 1992.
7.     Review of Organization Structure and Health Financing, Ministry of Health and Medical Education.



-iii-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEFINITIONS OF POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION TERMS
Average Occupancy Rate          -      Number of hospital days/(number of beds x 365).
Average Length of Stay          -      Number of hospital days/number of admissions.
Contraceptive Prevalence        -      Percentage of married women of reproductive age
using, or whose husbands use, any form of
contraceptive.
Crude Birth Rate                -      Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate           -      Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old
per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth        -      The number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the age-specific mortality rates prevailing
at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight                -      Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500
grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate         -      Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births
in a given year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth,
or post-pactum.
Neonatal Mortality Rate         -      The number of deaths to infants under 28 days of
age in a given year per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Rate of Natural Increase        -      The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth       -      The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural increase
and net migration, expressed as a percentage of the
base population.
Total Fertility Rate            -      The average number of children a woman will have
if she experiences a given set of age-specific fertility
rates throughout her lifetime. Serves as an estimate
of the number of children per family.






-iv-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:          Islamic Republic of Iran.
BENEFICIARY:         Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
LOAN AMOUN1            US$141.4 million equivalent.
TERMS:        Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD standard variable
interest rate.
PROJECT
OB.I11ECTIVE:      The general objective of the Project is to improve health conditions in rural areas
where health conditions are particularly poor and existing health services relatively
inadequate, and reduce population growth in the country. The Project would
contribute to this objective by improving the quality and coverage of health and
family planning services. It would consist of three components: A) a Service
Delivery System; B) a National Family Planning Program; and C) a Health Care
Financing Study.
PROJECT
DESCRIPMION          A) This component aims at improving the delivery of PHC services by (i)
strengthening the network of Rural Health Centers (RHCs) in selected geographic
areas; and (ii) establishing, at the national level, a center for training in the
management of health and family planning services. RHCs constitute the corner
stone of the Iranian health care delivery system in rural areas. They provide
comprehensive PHC services and are essential to the development and operation of
outreach services. The project would provide the necessary civil works,
equipment and furniture, transport facilities, training and salaries to establish 623
RHCs in 14 provinces. B) This component would assist in rapidly expanding the
Government's family planning program and strengthening its institutional base.
Services would be provided through the primary health care network. The family
planning component would have four parts: (i) diversifying the contraceptive
method mix and expanding family planning services (ii) building the Ministry's
institutional capacity at central and provincial levels to plan, manage and deliver
family planning services; (iii) developing information-education-communication
capabilities to reach target groups; and (iv) establishing a capacity for program
evaluation and research in family planning through the use of specific studies. C)
This component aims at improving the financing of health services in the country
by examining the fee structure and the role of the private sector in the provision
of tertiary care, and developing plans for establishing a national medical insurance
scheme.
BENEFITS
and RISKS: The project would increase access to public health services, especially primary
care and family planning, in underserved rural areas. With respect to family
planning, it would provide a major catalyst for the Government's effort to expand
family planning services nationwide. The main risk relates to the lack of
familiarity of the implementing agency with Bank procedures in general. This
would be given close attention during implementation. The project would provide
adequate technical assistance and training for the PIU and the Ministry's staff in
the various areas of management and implementation, especially procurement,
disbursement, project supervision and evaluation.



Estimated Project Cost
US$million
Local     Foreign   Total
A. Service Delivery
1. Primary Health Care Network      107.2      101.6  208.8
2. Health Management Development     2.5          4.0    6.5
SubTotal                              109.7       105.6  215.3
B. Family Planning Program
1. Contraceptive Options             6.3         12.9   19.2
2. Management Strengthening           4.4        2.9    7.3
3. Information Education Communicat.    7.6      0.1    7.7
4. Evaluation and Research           0.8         0.7    1.5
SubTotal                               19.1        16.6   35.7
C. Health Financing Study               0.0         0.4    0.5
D. Project Implementation Unit          1.7         0.4    2.1
Total Baseline Costs                  130.5       123.0  253.6
Physical Contingencies               4.7         8.5   13.2
Price Contingencies                  17.4         9.8   27.2
Total Project Costb                   152.6       141.4  294.0
Financing Plan
IUSmillion
Local   Foreign    Total
Government           152.6          -   152.6
IBRD                    -       141.4  141.4
Total                152.6      141.4  294.0
Disbursement Schedule (US$M)
1994  1995   1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual         26.1   29.9    37.9    24.8    14.7        8.0
Cumulative   26.1   56.0  93.91   118.7   133.4  141.4



-1-
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.1      The Islamic Republic of Iran, with an area of 1.6 million square kilometers, is the
fourth largest country in Asia. It covers a wide diversity of topography and climate, ranging
from the humid, subtropical Caspian littoral to the dry, hot plains fronting the Gulf of Oman,
some 1,500 kilometers to the south. The country is endowed with rich natural resources,
including an estimated 10 percent of the world's oil reserves and the second largest natural gas
reserves.
1.2      Iran is a lower middle-income oil exporting country with a 1991 population of about
58 million and a 1991 per capita income estimated at US$2,320. An Islamic Republic was
established in Iran in 1979. The economy had a mixed performance in the 1980s. During the
war years with Iraq (1980-88), the economy suffered from price and trade controls, which,
coupled with a collapse in oil prices and the damage that occurred to oil production and export
facilities, brought down the rate of GDP growth from 8 percent per year in 1980-85 to -3 percent
per year in 1986-88. Since 1989, the economy has been recovering as a result of the
Government's adopting market-oriented development policies; GDP is estimated to have grown
an average 7 percent a year from 1989 to 1992.
1.3      A preliminary report on the 1991 census gives the population of Iran as 58.1 million,
with 33.1 million in areas considered urban (57 percent) and 25.0 million in areas considered
rural. Population growth has been rapid: 3.2 percent since the 1986 census and a full percentage
point above that in urban areas. Nevertheless, the provinces where population has grown most
rapidly (Sistan/Baluchestan, Chaharmahal/Bakhtiyari, Yazd and Hormazgan) are, with the
exception of Yazd, among the least urban and least developed.
1.4      The fertility trend is in dispute. Total fertility in the inter-census period was 6.4
children per woman. However, surveys of knowledge, attitudes, and practice in family planning
conducted by the Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MORME) in 1989 and 1992 give
total fertility rates of 5.2 and 4.7 as of survey dates, respectively. Substantial fertility decline
could well have taken place, given such factors as high levels of female education, an economic
squeeze on households and the sudden availability of contraceptive supplies. However, a national
decline of the rapidity suggested by the surveys is extreme and would be somewhat unlikely.
1.5      The health status of the Iranian population has improved considerably over the past
decade or so. In a recent government survey involving more than 100,000 people ', the infant
mortality rate per 1000 (IMR) for example--a good indicator of the health status of a population-
has been estimated at 37, compared to more than 100 in the early 1980s2. Other health
indicators such as the neo-natal mortality rate, the under-five mortality rate and the maternal
mortality rate have shown similar improvements during the same period.
1.6      For the majority of the population, communicable diseases constitute the main causes
of mortality and morbidity3. Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, tetanus and measles are
/      "'Health Situation of Mothers and Children in The Islamic Republic of Iran", MOHME, 1992.
J      In comparison, IMRs were, in 1990: 66 in Egypt (GMP per capita: 600), 51 in Jordan (GNP per capita:
1,240), 60 in Turkey (GNP per capita: 1,630), end 103 in Pakistan (GNP per capita: 380).
J As is generally the case in middle-income countries, an "epidemiological transition"--the gradual
roplacement of communicable diseases by chronic and degenerative diseases (e.g. , cancers, cardiovascular
diseas*s)--s*oms to bo taking place in Iran. This transition, however, concerns primarily higher income
groups of the population, mostly living in urban areas.



-2-
prevalent, and foci of specific nutritional problems (e.g., iron-deficiency anaemia and iodine-
deficiency disorders), as well as parasitic diseases like malaria, exist in many regions. Among
children, acute respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases--often associated with some degree of
protein-energy malnutrition--are the main causes of death. Most of these health problems can be
prevented to a large extent or treated effectively with relatively simple care, hence the importance
of effective primary health care services.
1.7     The population groups at highest risk are women of reproductive age and young
children. All health indicators substantiate the fact that health conditions in rural areas are
significantly poorer than in urban areas. According to a 1991 MOHME survey, IMRs (per
1000), under-five mortality rates (per 1000) and maternal mortality rates (per 100,000) were 25,
31, and 29 in urban areas, compared to 50, 56, and 80, respectively, in rural areas. Similarly,
access to health and other social services is much better in urban than in rural areas.
II. HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES4
Health Policies. Services and Programs
2.1     Current health policies are based on a "Master Health Plan," which was adopted in
the early 1980s for the period 1983-2002. The plan stipulates policies, strategies and quantitative
objectives for the development of the health sector. It gives priority to basic curative care and
preventive activities, over sophisticated hospital care, and focuses strictly on the population
groups at highest risk, particularly in deprived rural areas. In 1984, the Government launched
the Primary Health Care (PHC) Programn as the main instrument to implement its policies in the
sector. Since the beginning, the program has enjoyed very strong political support, as reflected
by the relatively large proportion of the public expenditure for health allocated to PHC--about 40
percent in 1991. Medical universities and colleges were brought under the supervision of the
Ministry of Health in 1986 in order to sharpen the focus of medical education on PHC and public
health aspects.
2.2     Family planning services were reintroduced as part of the PHC package in 1988 after
a decade-long hiatus. The strong policy commitment to containing rapid population growth has
been evident in the Government's high-level policy seminars focusing on population growth and
led, in late 1991, to the establishment of a separate Population and Family Planning Department
in MOHME. The policy commitment has been reinforced by the apparently widespread popular
desire for small families. Underlying this desire is the common impression that times are hard;
lower fertility preferences are also bolstered by substantial improvements in education and
literacy, including among rural women.
2.3     The Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) has the primary
responsibility for the delivery of health care, including family planning. Particular
responsibilities of the Ministry include health policy formulation and planning and monitoring at
the national and local levels. The Minister of Health is assisted by nine specialized deputy-
ministers--one for each of the main MOHME prograrns (e.g., public health, hospital care, drug
administration and research). See Annex A for organizational diagrams. The Deputy Minister for
Health Affairs (i.e., public health) is responsible for seven key departments including Family
4/    A description of the health care delivery system in Iran is provided in ANNEX B.



-3-
Planning, Environmental Health and Communicable Diseases Control. He is assisted by a group
of senior advisors whose mandate is the development and expansion of the PHC network. A
similar structure exists at the provincial level, with representatives of the main departments of the
central MOHME.
2.4     The public sector is the main provider of health care in Iran. Health facilities
operated by the Government are organized into three levels of services delivery. At the village
and community level, the PHC network consists of Rural Health Centers (RHCs), Urban Health
Centers (UHCs) and Health Houses (HHs). In rural areas, HHs provide basic preventive and
curative services to the communities, supported by RHCs that provide guidance, supervision and
referral services. As such, RHCs constitute the cornerstone of the PHC network. In urban
areas, UHCs provide services similar to RHCs. At the secondary level, District Health Centers
(DHCs) are responsible for the management, including technical supervision and logistic support,
of the PHC network while district hospitals provide front-line referral services for the network.
Tertiary care is provided by a network of public and private hospitals located in the main cities.
2.5     Health services delivered through the PHC network directly address the main causes
of mortality and morbidity among the population groups at highest risk. Home visits and other
outreach services are an integral part of the daily work of Behvarz (community health workers),
thus ensuring close contact between the health system and the community. Regular supervision
takes place at all levels, and effective data collection enables continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the services provided. As a result of sound policies with respect to the management
of medical supplies--the use of standard lists of essential drugs and strict prescription practices,
for example--the supply and the use of medicines and other consumable items are fairly
satisfactory, which is rare for developing countries.
2.6     One of the main strengths of the PHC network has been the ability of MOHME to
train qualified paramedical personnel. Cadres such as health technicians and nurse aids at RHCs
and UHCs, and Behvarz at HHs, play the major role in delivering PHC services. Their training
curricula have been carefully developed to meet exclusively the needs of the PHC Program. To
the extent possible, these categories of personnel are recruited from the areas where they will be
assigned, thus ensuring good integration in the community. Specialized training facilities (e.g.,
training centers for environmental health technicians) have been established in virtually every
district of the country.
2.7     Family planning services are provided, in rural areas, by female Behvarz working out
of health houses; these workers supply pills and condoms and refer clients to RHCs for IUD
insertions and, eventually, to hospitals for sterilization. Pills must be prescribed initially by a
physician but are then dispensed by the Behvarz. The 40 percent of the rural population not
covered by health houses is meant to be supplied by mobile health teams. Urban residents are
supplied from UHCs. A number of other agencies also contribute to the population program,
such as the Ministry of Education, by providing population education; the Plan and Budget
Organization, by providing data and analyzing the effects of population on other development
areas; and the Ministry of Culture, by helping to prepare promotional material.
2.8     The current scope of the family planning program is indicated by the large number of
contraceptives distributed. In 1990, 7.1 million cycles of pills were distributed. In 1991, this
figure rose to 8.5 million cycles. A total of 20.8 million condoms were distributed in 1990 and
32.3 million, in 1991. IUD insertions numbered 122,000 in 1990 and 204,000 in 1991.
Sterilization operations were counted at 93,000 in 1990 and 188,000 in 1991.



-4-
2.9      An estimated 4.8 percent of GDP is currently spent on health care. The share of
public expenditures in this total is 70 percent; this includes MOHME expenditures, as well as
social security, military and other public health insurance arrangements. Some 40 percent of
public health expenditures, e.g., the bulk of MOHME budgeted resources, are channelled into
primary care, and, of this, some 70 percent goes to meet recurrent costs. Preventive care is
provided without charge in the public system, but set fees are applied to curative services in
public facilities. Public health insurance arrangements--the social security system, the civil
service and branch-related insurance--cover some 18 million people. They cover in- and out-
patient care in contracted hospitals5. There are no set fees for private care. Overall funding for
the health sector is provided as follows: the state budget (40 percent); employer and employee
contributions to the social security system (12 percent); other branch-specific public insurance
arrangements (6 percent); and households (42 percent). As the Government begins to look to the
private sector to play a greater role in the provision of curative services, especially hospital care,
health insurance mechanisms that expand coverage will need to be put into place. Moreover, if
the Government is to ensure long-term financial sustainability of the health care system, issues
such as cost recovery and the pricing of pharmaceutical products would have to be tackled.
2.10     The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has been the principal source of
external financing for the public health system in Iran since 1984. The main UNICEF focus has
been on strengthening the PHC network through programs that are particularly relevant to child
health, including: immunization, oral rehydration therapy, the control of acute respiratory
infections, the control of child and maternal malnutrition, and data collection and monitoring.
Other UN agencies, including the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), have also been
involved in the health and population sectors during the past few years. UNFPA, which has been
supporting the population program in Iran since 1971/72, has recently expanded its activities to
include the training of rural midwives; surveys on contraception; the provision of new
contraceptives, such as NORPLANT, on an experimental basis; and technical assistance in data
analysis and evaluation.
2.11     Overall, the PHC network in Iran has been performing well in addressing the main
needs of the majority of the population. It has been acclaimed in the international health
community as one of the best PHC systems in the developing world. Quality and the utilization
of services are very good, even in the remotest areas, and continuous efforts are being made to
further improve the use of health manpower and other operational resources, as well as the main
support systems (e.g., for manpower training, logistics, repair and maintenance, etc.). A critical
review of the system, after nearly a decade of continuous expansion, outlines the following
strengths: careful planning at the initial stage; strict focus on priority health problems and on
population groups at highest risk; effective training programs and adequate use of health
personnel, including Behvarz; adequate supplies of medicines; regular and effective supervision at
all levels; and an effective data collection system. Several studies carried out with the assistance
of international agencies such as UNICEF have established a significant relationship between the
development of the PHC network and the impressive improvements that have been observed in
recent years in health and demographic conditions.
JV The social socurity system runs its own network of hospitals, owned outright or contracted; the dilitav
has its own hospital system; other public agencies use public hospital services or contract with private
hospitals. Moreover, quasi-private charitable orSanizations provide free health and medical services in a
few facilities situated in rural areas.



-5-
Main Sector Issues
2.12      The main constraint faced by MOHME in delivering PHC services concerns the
development of the physical infrastructure. The existing PHC network reaches about 60 percent
of the rural population and 90 percent of the urban population. Apart from essential preventive
services (e.g., immunization) delivered by mobile health teams, the remaining 40 percent of the
rural population have virtually no access to health care 6. Furthermore, although the PHC
network has expanded as originally envisioned, shortages of development funds have obliged the
Government to take shortcuts, making extensive use of rented facilities and government buildings
constructed for other purposes and often unsuitable for health services 7. RHCs in rented or run-
down facilities can seldom accommodate all the staff and medical equipment required for the full
range of PHC services. The need to relocate frequently due to unreasonable rent increases and
the difficulty in using government funds to maintain privately owned facilities are additional
problems s.
2.13      Another issue related to physical infrastructure that has been increasingly recognized,
but not yet satisfactorily addressed by MOHME, is the shortage of maternity facilities in rural
areas 9. Uncomplicated birth delivery can be safely handled at home or at HHs, with the
assistance of Behvarz or village midwives (i.e., volunteer workers selected by the communities
and trained in delivering babies). However, a large percentage of women, for whom risk factors
have been identified have to travel long distances to the nearest hospital because maternity facili-
ties and, hence, midwives are not available at RHCs.
2.14      While the availability of qualified paramedical personnel at PHC facilities is one of
the main strengths of the system, this is not the case for medical doctors, who are not adequately
trained to serve at the primary level--particularly in rural areas--and tend to be concentrated in
urban areas. Since the launching of the PHC policy, the Government has taken a number of
measures to secure the involvement of medical doctors in the PHC program. The annual output
of medical doctors increased substantially, from about 900 in the early 1980s to 5,000 in 1991.
The reorganization of the Ministry of Health mentioned above, to include the.responsibility for
medical education, was an important step towards bridging the gap between the powerful
(traditionally curative-oriented) medical schools and the government PHC program. Serious
efforts have also been made to increase the importance of public health (e.g., epidemiology,
statistics and disease prevention) in the basic medical curricula, and field assignments at PHC
facilities have become an integral part of medical education. However, these efforts have not
been sufficient to prepare new graduates to work at RHCs or UHCs. As is the case in many
developing countries, MOHME efforts to increase the production of medical doctors for rural
l/      These undeserved population groups are among the poorest in the country. Their access to other
social services is often very limited an well. Higher coverage in urban areas is also duo to policies
during the prerevolutionary period that favored urban areas and to the availability of alternative sources
of health care delivery, such as tho private sector.
7/      About 15 to 20 percent of the R'Cs and 40 percent of the lsa currently in operation are accomdated
in rental facilities.
I/      In contrast, the use of rented facilities has proved to be fairly appropriate in the case of BIS,
which can bz suitably accomaodated in small (i. ., 2-3 rooms) buildings and are often staffed by only two
Behvarz community health workers.
i/ Maternal mortality appears to be relatively high, compared to other health indicators. The maternal
mortality rate (average for the whole country) is estimated at between 40 and 85 por 100,000 women, compared
to less than 15 in most industrialized countries. Although maternal mortality rates are particularLy
subject to inaccurate recording, unusually high figures should be taken into consideration as they could
indicate poor, or the lack of accessibility to, mAternity facilities.



-6-
service have been seriously undercut by the Ministry's inability to assign new graduates to rural
areas due to poor living conditions at many RHCs and the lack of opportunities for private
practice. As an alternative, MOHME has been obliged to use the services of foreign doctors
extensively in order to staff RHCs and UHCs'°. The shortage is expected to be gradually
reduced as urban areas become saturated. Since this will take some time, the Government has
adopted legislation requiring all new graduates from public universities to be placed at the
disposal of MOHME for two years as their military service. The new legislation is expected to
make available to MOHME, at any time, a pool of 1,500 doctors who can be assigned to rural
areas. However, these doctors would still need additional training in public health and
management and satisfactory living accommodations in their assigned areas 11.
2.15     The management of PHC services could be strengthened, particularly at the district
and provincial levels. Areas for improvement range from budgeting and accounting to long-term
planning and the management of specific support services (e.g., procurement, storage and the
distribution of supplies). Services could be better evaluated; presently, very little research on
ways to improve the system is being undertaken. There is also a continuous need to introduce
new approaches to service delivery, as is the case for new control programs (e.g., the
management of acute respiratory infections or the provision of new clinical methods of
contraception). District and provincial level managers lack adequate management training, as
well as the necessary tools to analyze and effectively use the large amount of data which are
generated at PHC facilities.
2.16     The family planning program is at a critical juncture. Its recent rapid expansion has
been partly fueled by the absence of public services for over a decade. As the accumulated
unmet demand for contraception is filled, expansion will become more difficult. Expansion has
also depended largely on locally available contraceptive methods, leading to an excessive reliance
on older types of pills and IUDs and obsolete female sterilization methods. At the same time, the
new department put in charge of the program has to contend with problems with staffing,
training, facilities and the flow of management information. Only very limited international
technical and financial assistance has been available.
Bank Experience with Lending in the Sector
2.17     The Bank has financed one operation in the sector (Loan 928 of FY73, closed in
FY77). The Bank loan was for US$16.5 million, and the main objectives of the project were: (a)
to provide some of the basic physical facilities needed to extend health and family planning
services to smaller towns; (b) to assist in improving the management of the national population
program; (c) to increase the quantity and improve the quality of training for family planning
workers; and (d) to prepare for a subsequent nutrition project. These objectives were not
achieved. According to the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 3790), the failure of
the project to achieve its objectives was attributed to the following: (a) a lack of commitment and
interest by the Government in adopting a clear population policy; (b) the absence of a project
management structure to ensure efficient implementation; and (c) difficulty in attracting
10/    About 70 percent of the medical doctors working at R-Ca are foreigners, mostly from South Asia, on
contract for a period of 2-3 years.
11/    The legislation, called the "health messengers law", will become effective in March 1993. Although
of lesser importance from the point of view of manpower distribution, it also concerns midwives, health
technicians and other paramedical personnel--both males and females.



-7-
contractors to build small-scale rural facilities because of a construction boom in the country.
The project was judged to be high risk right from the start.
2.18    The proposed project would not have to contend with the same problems that plagued
Loan 928. While it seems that Government commitment to population and family planning was
lacking in the early 1970s, the present Government sees family planning as a top priority and is
supported in this by the religious authorities. A strong rural PHC network now exists and the
construction and contracting capacity has much improved since the early 1970s, as demonstrated
even during the war. In addition, the proposed project would strengthen the institutional and
managerial capabilities of the newly established Population and Family Planning Department in
MOHME, establish a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry for the project as a whole and
group small works into larger contracts attractive to domestic and foreign contractors.
Government Health Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.19    A healthy population is both an end and a means to economic growth and
development. Development constitutes not only increases in income, but also improvements in
the physical quality of life and life expectancy. At the same time, a healthy and productive work
force is an essential input to any economic progress. Accordingly, improvements in health care
are likely to benefit a country's population both directly (as measured by health care indicators)
and indirectly (as measured by per capita incomes).
2.20    The government policies in the health sector are sound. They focus on the delivery of
PHC as the main strategy to improve health and demographic conditions in the country. These
policies have been implemented since the early 1980s with very strong political support, as
reflected by the high proportion of public expenditures allocated to health, especially to PHC.
The quality and utilization of existing services are satisfactory, and key support systems are
generally adequate. The relationship between the development of the PHC network and recent
improvements in health and demographic conditions has been clearly established. As for family
planning, after a decade-long hiatus, the Government has a strong commitment to developing
national population strategies and expanding the availability and use of family planning services.
2.21    Today, the main constraint faced by MOHME concerns the development of the
physical infrastructure. Coverage of the existing PHC network is still insufficient and about 40
percent of the rural population has virtually no access to PHC services. The establishment of
RHCs is of particular importance in this respect in view of the key role played by these centers
in providing technical and logistical support to outreach services, such as ensuring a steady flow
of supplies, providing training and supervision and assuring adequate referral. In terms of
physical infrastructure, there is also a shortage of maternity facilities in rural areas while the
living conditions for medical doctors and other health personnel need improvement.
Furthermore, while MOHME has performed well in developing services and programs and in
securing the needed recurrent budget for operating the health system, it has faced serious
difficulties in mobilizing additional investment resources necessary for expansion. As a result,
many of the existing services have been accommodated in rented facilities or unsuitable
government buildings. In terms of qualitative aspects, the main area for improvement is the
management of services, particularly at the district and provincial levels. The delivery of family
planning services, though an integral part of PHC, deserves particular attention because of the
need to strengthen the fairly new institutional setup, start or further develop key programs (e.g.,
information, education, and communication) and ensure an adequate supply of contraceptives--
both qualitatively and quantitatively--while the program is being expanded.



-8-
2.22    The ability of the Government to maintain and increase the quality of services that has
been achieved during the past few years, while expanding coverage, especially in rural areas,
may ultimately depend on its ability to overcome eventual budgetary constraints and sustain
adequate financial support to the extensive network of PHC services. Preliminary drafts of the
Second Five-Year Plan indicate a strong political will to address the issue of health care
financing. Two main strategies are suggested: (i) to establish a national health insurance scheme
that would meet the criteria of equity, effectiveness and quality of services and would cover a
large portion of the population--up to 85 percent during the plan period; and (ii) to entrust the
private sector with an increasing role as the provider of curative care, particularly hospital care in
urban areas. The Government requested Bank assistance to examine these strategies further and
to develop plans for their implementation.
2.23     Government policy in health care, in the short run, emphasizes the extension of PHC
to underserved rural areas and the expansion of family planning services, while addressing the
issue of health care financing; in the long run, it seeks to expand the types of services offered by
the PHC network, to increase the role of the private sector in tertiary care and to adopt measures
for the financial sustainability of the health system. The present project would assist the
Government in achieving its immediate objectives by laying the institutional and physical
foundations for an effective PHC system and examining health financing; future sector work and
lending operations would address the long-term objectives. The policy framework for extending
the PHC network, as well as the political support for expanding the national family planning
program, are securely in place. It is within this policy framework and based on such political
support that the Bank's intervention should be viewed.
2.24    The project would consist of three components. The first component would focus
primarily on increasing the coverage of the delivery system for health and family planning
services in rural areas not yet covered by the PHC network while improving, nationwide, the
overall management of services. This would be achieved through an expansion of the rural PHC
infrastructure by establishing health centers, maternity facilities and living accommodations for
health personnel. The second component, dealing specifically with the recently revived national
family planning program, would assist in strengthening the capacity of MOHME to manage the
program and to ensure an adequate supply of contraceptives and other relevant services. The
third component would address the broader issue of health care financing by providing technical
assistance to further examine government plans to establish a national health insurance scheme
and to increase private sector participation in providing health services. Technical assistance
under the project would complement what UNICEF and UNFPA are presently providing.
2.25    The project supports the Government's policies and constitutes an essential part of the
Bank's human resources strategy in the country. Strengthening the rural PHC network is
consistent with the Government's policy to stem rural-to-urban migration and correct the
imbalance in resource use that results in less favorable health conditions in rural areas. This
objective concurs with Government efforts to reduce poverty, which remains more of a problem
in rural areas. Moreover, expanding PHC services would streamline the referral system, reduce
pressures on hospitals and allow a more efficient use of resources in the health sector as a whole.
Finally, the project would serve as a confirmation and a catalyst for a comprehensive PHC
strategy and would strengthen the resolve of MOHME to secure and commit the necessary public
resources for such a plan.



-9-
III. THE PROlECI
3.1      The general objective of the project is to improve health conditions in rural areas and
reduce population growth in the country. The project would focus on selected rural areas where
health conditions are particularly poor and existing health services relatively inadequate. The
project would contribute to this objective by improving the quality and coverage of health and
family planning services. It would consist of three components: (A) a service delivery system
(both for health and for family planning); (B) a national family planning program; and (C) a
health care financing study.
Component A - Service Delivery
3.2      Component A of the project would increase the coverage of the PHC network in
selected rural areas while improving nationwide the management of services.
Primary Health Care Network 12
3.3      This part of the project would expand the PHC network in selected underserved rural
areas by establishing 623 RHCs. Presently, 1248 RHCs exist in the project area, while the
number of facilities needed to achieve full coverage of the population in these areas is 2113
RHCs.
3.4      Fourteen provinces have been selected for their relatively poor health and
demographic conditions and the limited coverage of their existing PHC infrastructure in rural
areas'3. These provinces are: Tehran, Mazandaran, East Azarbayejan, West Azarbayejan,
Khuzestan, Fars, Kerman, Khorasan, Sistan/Baluchestan, Kordestan, Hormazgan, Lorestan,
Hamadan and Zanjan. The rural population of the 14 provinces is about 19.3 million or 77
percent of the total rural population of the country.
3.5      Within the health care delivery system, the project would focus on RHCs because of
their essential role in supporting outreach facilities and services in rural areas (e.g. HHs and
Mobile Units). The Government is committed to establishing the network of HHs in the project
area as part of its PHC network expansion program, and the action plan for this project
component was devised as an integral part of this expansion program.
3.6      The RHCs to be established under the project would be located in areas where a
relatively large population has either none or very limited access to PHC services. Of the 623
RHCs, 436 (70 percent) would be located in areas where no health facility exists at present, 104
(16.7 percent) would be replacing existing RHCs that are currently accommodated in rented
facilities, 83 (13.3 percent) will be replacing existing RHCs that are currently accommodated in
inadequate Government buildings. Maternity facilities would be established in 28 of these 623
RHCs. The criteria used for determining the number of maternities to be established in the
I3/ A more detailed description of this sub-component is provided in Annex D.
12/ The following indicators were used to assess health and demographic conditions: infant mortality rates,
no-natel mortality rate, under-five mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, total fertility rate, and
contraceptive prevalence rate. Information on the existing P8C infrastructure was based on detailed MDHFZ
plans for development of the PHC network throughout the country.



-10-
project area and their location were based on the population density and proximity to alternative
health care facilities, such as hospitals. The catchment area for a single maternity would
typically consist of 40,000 people. The project would provide the necessary civil works,
equipment, furniture, vehicles and incremental recurrent funding for salaries, supervision, and
operation and maintenance related to the establishment of the 623 RHCs.
3.7     MOHME standard architectural plans for RHCs were substantially revised during
project preparation to accommodate a number of architectural (e.g.,space utilization, type of
construction materials used, etc.), and functional (e.g.,the adjunction of maternity facilities and
minor surgery rooms) improvements. The standard lists of medical equipment and furniture to be
provided are those that have been used by MOHME at existing RHCs. One four-wheel drive
vehicle would be provided to each of the 623 RHCs.
3.8     Satisfactory operation of the RHCs included in the project would require training
2,890 health technicians, 1,345 nurse aids, and 90 midwives. In addition, 5,000 to 6,000
Behvarz would be needed to staff the network of HHs which the Government plans to establish in
the project areas. The training capacity to produce all additional paramedical personnel already
exists in the 14 provinces, and MOHME would have no difficulty producing the needed staff for
the project facilities. Medical doctors assigned to the 623 RHCs and 28 maternities would be
made available to MOHME under the new "health messengers law" referred to earlier.
Health Management Development
3.9     This second part of Component A would strengthen the management of PHC,
particularly at the district and provincial levels. It would assist in establishing a national center
for training and research in health management--the National PHC Management Center
(NPMC), while further developing the management information system. The two areas
concerned, management training and data analysis and utilization, are complementary.
The National Primary Health Care Management Center
3.10    During the past few years, MOHME has been providing key health personnel with
short in-service training courses in various management related matters such as supervision and
budget planning. These efforts have been very encouraging and MOHME is now considering
further improvement through the establishment of a training center specializing in the
management of PHC services, the National PHC Management Center (NPMC).
3.11    NPMC would be located in the Tehran area and would serve as the main venue to
provide key health personnel working at the district, provincial and national levels with pre- and
in-service training in a wide range of management-related matters (e.g., management of medical
supplies, accounting, supervision, etc.). Once they are trained, those personnel are expected to
train other health personnel working at the PHC level. The center will encourage and assist
health managers in carrying out research and monitoring and evaluation activities. It will also be
used for short term courses on new approaches and technologies in both health (e.g.,the control
of acute respiratory infections) and family planning (e.g., the delivery of new contraceptive
methods) as well as for dissemination of information on other sector activities. The NPMC would
be placed under the direct responsibility of the Deputy Minister for Health Affairs (i.e., Public
Health), thus ensuring that its primary focus will remain on Primary Health Care, including
Family Planning.



-11-
3.12    The project would assist in establishing the NPMC by providing the necessary civil
works, teaching aids and materials, furniture, vehicles, technical assistance, training and
operating expenditures.
3.13    Physical facilities at the NPMC would include an auditorium, rooms for working
groups and seminars, a library, office accommodations, a cafeteria and a kitchen, residential
areas for permanent staff and living accommodations for about 40 male and 20 female
participants. Teaching aids and materials, furniture and other equipment would meet the usual
requirements for this type of a training center. NPMC would also be supplied with vehicles.
3.14    NPMC would receive technical assistance in four areas, namely: curriculum
development, teaching methodology, training evaluation and health systems research methodology
(applied to PHC). The services of international and local consultants would be provided for this
purpose for a total period of eight person-months. In addition, the assistance of local consultants
(six person-months) would be needed to develop manuals and educational material to support the
training.
3.15    The training programs to be provided at the NPMC would be developed with the
assistance of the above consultants. Officials at MOHME estimate that about 800 District Health
Officers and Managers, Provincial Health Officers and central-level staff would participate in a
minimum of two training courses (one to four weeks duration) per year. In addition, various
categories of personnel, such as superintendent, of district hospitals and providers of clinical
family planning methods would receive occasional in-service training in their area of expertise.
Overall, the NPMC is expected to operate at full capacity nine months per year.
3.16    NPMC would have very few permanent staff (i.e., about 4 instructors and research
workers in addition to the Manager and his/her deputy), and would primarily rely on a pool of
management experts working at various private and public institutions. MOHME has about 9
years of experience in collaborating with those institutions which have constituted an adequate
source of expertise for MOHME training programs. Those experts would be contracted by
MOHME to carry out most of the training for the NPMC on a subject matter basis. All operating
costs of the NPMC have been estimated on the basis of similar experience in other sectors.
Health Management Information System
3.17    A tremendous amount of data and information on health and demographic conditions
as well as on the health infrastructure and the delivery of services is being collected as part of the
routine activities of PHC workers. This information is consolidated manually at all levels from
the HHs to the central MOHME level, and only a small part of it is effectively used for
managerial purposes (e.g., planning and evaluation). An improved system for consolidation and
analysis of information collected at PHC facilities would enable health managers to master the
information available on the supply side (i.e., information on health facilities, personnel, drug
supplies and other resources) and to better measure progress made in terms of health and
demographic indicators.
3.18    MOHME recently developed a computer program to store and analyze the information
generated at PHC facilities. UNICEF provided some assistance--primarily the supply of
computers and the training needed to use the program--to test the program at the provincial level.
The experiment, evaluated recently, has proved to be successful. As a complement to the
establishment of the NPMC and in collaboration with UNICEF, the project would assist in
expanding the use of the computerized system to the district level.



-12-
3.19    The project would provide 292 computer packages in all districts nationwide (i.e.,
desktop computers, printers, modems, and appropriate software), computer furniture, technical
assistance to oversee installation and provide repair and maintenance of the system, cost of
training users, and supplies. UNICEF would continue to assist in further developing the software
packages (e.g., to include public health indicators) and in training and monitoring.
Component B - The National Family Planning Program
3.20    The family planning component of the project would assist in rapidly expanding the
MOHME family planning program and in strengthening its institutional base. The component has
four parts:
* The provision of new contraceptive options
* Management strengthening
* Information-education-communication campaigns
* Evaluation and research
Provision of New Contraceptive ORtions
3.21    The project would diversify the method mix, mainly with the following new
contraceptive options:
* Low-dose, progestin-only minipills, important for women who are breastfeeding, who may be
as many as a third of nonusers
* TCu-380A and TCu-380Ag IUDs, to replace older, less effective IUDs
* An injectable DMPA, to provide an additional, long-acting option that proved quite
acceptable before the previous family planning program was discontinued
e An implant, Norplant, another long-acting option to be introduced gradually
* Minilaparotomy, a simpler, safer, and cheaper procedure than those in use.
These contraceptives would be imported under the project. For minilaparotomies, 200
minilaparotomy kits would be provided for use in each public hospital and provincial MOHME
office, supplemented by 50 laparoscopy kits to provide an alternative. Additional supplies of
condoms would also be imported to deal with recurrent shortages. In the third year of the project,
consultants would study local production to determine how it might fill more of the need.
3.22    The expected consumption of different contraceptive methods and the specific
increments to be funded under the project are given in Table 3.1. These projections cover only
the public sector. Alternative projections using different assumptions about current contraceptive
prevalence and targets give varying levels of consumption, but the increments over 1992 levels
are roughly similar.



-13-
Table 3.1: Projected Consumption of Contraceptive Methods Supplied by
MOHNME and Number to be Provided Under the Project, Iran, 1992-97
Year         Condoms    Tubectomy    Injectables    IUDs      Vasectomy    Norplant     Orals
Total contraceptive consumption (thousands of units)
1992        31153.8         76.2         0.0       109.1         7.5         0.0      9713.3
1993        34092.0         78.3        25.1       120.9         8.5        12.6    10577.3
1994        37094.1         88.4        84.9       139.6         9.5        17.4     11454.5
1995        40162.0         93.2       154.0       157.8        10.2        22.5     12345.5
1996        42987.3        112.4       228.5       182.1        11.8        26.3     13156.2
1997        46189.0        131.6       303.9       206.3        13.5        30.0     14076.7
Incremental consumption to befunded (thousands of units)
1993         2938.1           -         25.1       120.9          -         12.6       528.9
1994         5940.3           -         84.9       139.6          -         17.4      1145.5
1995         9008.1           -         154.0      157.8          -         22.5      1851.8
1996        11833.4           -        228.5       182.1          -         26.3      2631.2
11997        15035.2          -         303.9      206.3           -        30.0      3519.2
- Not applicable.
3.23     Most of the increased contraceptive distribution is to be handled by MOHME staff
assigned to the primary health care network; these health workers already handle family planning
as part of their regular duties. However, not all rural health centers can be quickly equipped to
provide minilaparotomies, vasectomies, and Norplant. To speed up delivery of these three
methods, an experiment with 20 mobile teams would be started in the provinces with the lowest
levels of contraceptive prevalence.
3.24     Training for contraceptive providers would be handled in stages in a process used
consistently in the health network. After central staff are trained, partly by international
consultants (four months of technical assistance and two weeks of overseas observation are
provided for this), these staff would then train two or more health staff from each province in
Tehran, who would return to their provinces and train additional providers, with training
assistance as needed from central office staff. Provincial staff would then conduct further training
within districts for local staff. An outline of the training plan, under which about 15,700 staff are
to be trained in the new methods, is provided in Annex D.
Management Strengthening
3.25     The central Population and Family Planning Department would expand under the
project from a dozen to 40 staff, and a similar expansion from 5 to 12 family planning staff is
expected in each provincial office. The project would provide training for both central and
provincial staff, including a total of 220 person-months of training overseas and 80 person-
months of local training. This is in addition to the training for contraceptive provision. Annex D
provides details on types of staff to be trained and types of training, which would include training
in management and planning, information-education-communication (IEC) and evaluation and
research, as well as study tours to observe other programs. Various categories of essential
equipment and supplies would also be provided under the project, including office furniture and
supplies, 52 vehicles, equipment for training, computers and printers.



-14-
Information-Education-Communication (IEC) Campaigns
3.26    The capacity for IEC activities would be built up to enable the program to reach an
expanding clientele with a variety of different messages. The project would cover the following:
* The production of additional materials, particularly on the new methods, including books,
booklets, pamphlets, posters and films
* Advertising costs to allow the use of appropriate media
* The sponsorship of seminars and workshops among influential groups
* The evaluation of IEC impact through four studies in different years, including the necessary
technical assistance.
Interpersonal IEC is not covered under this sub-component but would continue to be part of
health worker training.
Evaluation and Research
3.27    The evaluation and research capacity of the Population and Family Planning
Department would be built up through the use of specific studies to help the program assess its
performance and evaluate the best approaches to adopt for its further development. The studies to
be conducted would include:
- Two surveys comparable to the Demographic and Health Surveys, in the first and the fifth
years of the project, with technical support from the Demographic and Health Surveys itself
or from some comparable source, and a knowledge-attitudes-and-practice survey in between
- About 10 pieces of operations research to assess the effects of particular aspects of the family
planning program, again with appropriate technical assistance
3.28    Some of the operations research is to be conducted by staff trained under the
management strengthening sub-component. Other pieces of research may be conducted by or in
collaboration with university-based researchers, under contract with the department. To supervise
these evaluation and research activities, MOHME would augment the Technical Committee for
family planning with local social science researchers and two recognized international experts,
giving it the responsibility of being an Evaluation Committee.
3.29    In addition to the studies, this sub-component will address the question of a stable
institutional structure for family planning evaluation and research. In the first year, the project
would support an international consultant for four months to prepare a report on the need,
potential, and design for a Human Reproduction Center, as a possible institutional base for such
work.
Component C - Health Care Financing
3.30    In the medium and long term, the Government's capacity to improve substantially
health conditions in the country depends on sustaining adequate financial support for the extensive
network of PHC services. Preliminary drafts of the Second Five-Year Plan indicate a strong
political will to address the issue of health care financing. Two main strategies are suggested: (a)
to establish a national medical insurance scheme for the entire population that would meet the
criteria of equity, effectiveness and quality of services; and (b) to entrust the private sector with
an increasing role as provider of curative care, particularly hospital care in urban areas. Both



-15-
these strategies are now incorporated in a law approved by the Majlis in February 1993. The
Government requested Bank assistance in developing plans to implement these strategies.
3.31    While components A and B of the project will focus on immediate issues related to
the management and delivery of health and family planning services, Component C aims at
improving the financing of health services in the country. Specifically, funding would be
provided for a technical assistance (TA) study to review the current situation as regards health
care financing, both in the public and the private sectors, and to examine further the two areas
mentioned above, i.e., the increased participation of the private sector, and the establishment of a
national medical insurance scheme.
3.32    The technical assistance study will consist of three successive phases. During Phas
I, to develop the exact scope and implementation arrangements, including the consulting
requirements and the detailed terms of references for Phase II and Phase III. In Phase II, the
current situation with respect to health care financing, both in the public and private sectors, will
be reviewed and the needs for funding in the sector will be assessed. Based on that review, the
consultants will examine the best means of implementing the mandated medical insurance scheme
and will review the current and potential role of the private sector in providing health care.
Finally, Phase III will develop in detail the options selected as the most effective for
implementing the national medical insurance scheme and the privatization of curative facilities,
providing specific guidelines and recommendations about how to proceed.
3.33    The project will fund the necessary consulting services to carry out the above studies.
A more detailed description of this component, including the consulting requirements, the
implementation arrangements and the terms of reference for the preliminary study are provided in
Annex K.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT and IMPLEMENTATION
Project Costs and Financing
4.1 The total project cost is estimated at Rls 600.1 billion (US$294.0 million equivalent).
Foreign cost represents Rls 282.2 billion (US$141.4 million equivalent) or about 48 percent of
total project cost. Total contingencies represent 16 percent of the base cost"4. Investments
would be free of duties and taxes. Major cost categories are civil works related to the expansion
of the RHC network, medical equipment and contraceptives, technical assistance (training and
specialist services) and vehicles. Recurrent costs include: incremental personnel required for the
supervision of works during implementation and for the delivery of health care services once
RHCs are established, as well as the operation and maintenance of physical facilities, equipment
and vehicles. The Bank is not financing local recurrent expenditures. The estimated cost
distribution by project component is shown in Table 4.1. The summary of project cost estimates
by category is shown in Table 4.2. Summary cost tables are shown in Annex E.
_;4 The bass year exchange rate used was the "floating' exchange rate of Rls 1,450 to the US dollar. For
subsequent years. constant purchasing parity exchange rates were used.



-16-
4.2 The financing plan consists of a GOI contribution of Ris 318.0 billion (US$152.6 million
equivalent) to cover the entire local cost portion of the project. The Bank loan is for US$141.4
million, corresponding to 100 percent of the foreign exchange requirements of the project.
4.3 The cost estimates for the civil works are based on: preliminary bill of quantities; January
1993 prices for labor and material; an evaluation of unit costs obtained for similar works in
selected target provinces; and Bank preparation mission estimates. Cost estimates for equipment
are based on unit prices for similar equipment procured recently in Iran and on standard price
lists provided by MOHME. Allowances for physical contingencies are 10 percent of the base
cost for all civil works and equipment, and 5 percent for contraceptives. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the following basis for foreign and local costs, respectively: 3.8 percent
and 23.0 percent in 1993/94, 1.9 percent and 18.1 percent in 1994/95, 2.7 percent and 14.2
percent in 1995/96, 3.4 percent and 12.4 percent in 1996/97, 3.6 percent and 10.6 percent in
1997/98, and 3.6 percent and 13.4 percent in 1998/99 when the project is expected to be
completed (constant purchasing parity exchange rates were assumed).
Procurement
4.4  The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the
components to be financed by the Bank, are summarized in Table 4.3. Recurrent and other local
costs financed by the Government are shown under N.B.F. (non-bank financed). The
Procurement Plan, including cost estimates broken down by contract, is summarized in Annex F,
Table F.1.
4.5   All goods and works to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992). Iranian manufacturers
competing for the contracts for the supply of goods procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF
price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to nonexempt importers, whichever is less,
provided it can be proved that the value added to the product in Iran exceeds 20 percent of the
ex-factory bid price. One of the requirements for the award of equipment contract(s) for
imported equipment would be that, before signing the contract, the successful bidder would
arrange to be represented by an agent in Iran equipped and able to carry out the contractor's
maintenance, repair and spare parts stocking obligations. For large imported equipment (eg., x-
ray machines), MOHME would draft a maintenance contract with the foreign supplier.



-17-
IRAN
TABLE 4.1: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
Project Cost Summary
RIALS                 USS
billion              million        % Foreign %Total
Local Foreign   Total Local Foreign   Total Exchange   Baa
Com
A. Service Delivery
1. Primay Health Care Network    155.44 147.39 302.83 107.20 101.60 206.80     48.7   82.4
2. Health Management Development  3.66   5.73   9.39   2.50   4.00   6.50      61.0    2.6
SubTotal                          159.10 153.12 312.22 109.70 105.60 215.30      49.0   84.9
B. Family Planning Program
1. Contraceptive Options        9.17  18.73  27.25   6.30  12.90  19.47       67.1    7.6
2. Management Strengthening      6.32   4.20  10.38   4.40   2.90   7.41       39.9    2.9
3. Inform-Educ-Comm             11.05   0.18  11.22   7.60   0.10   8.01        1.6    3.1
4. Evaluation and Research       1.15   0.99   2.11   0.80   0.70   1.51       46.3    0.6
SubTotal                          27.70  24.10  50.96  19.10  16.60  36.40       46.5   14.1
C. Health Financing Study          0.05   0.63   0.66   0.00   0.40   0.47       92.8    0.2
D. Project Implementation Unit     2.44   0.54   2.96   1.70   0.40   2.12       18.1    0.8
Total Baseline Costs             189.29 178.39 367.68 130.50 123.00 253.60       48.5  100.0
Physical Contingencies           6.76  12.39  19.15   4.70   8.50  13.20       64.7    5.2
Price Contingencies            121.91  91.38 213.28  17.40   9.80  27.20       36.2   10.7
Total Project Co.                3         2.16 600.12 152.60 -141.40 294.00     4 1 15.9_
4.6    Goods and equipment to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would consist of vehicles, medical
equipment, spare parts and supplies, and contraceptives. As far as practicable, these would be sliced and
packaged in such a manner that all packages would be large enough to attract international competition and, at
the same time, would contain suitable 'slices" to attract small manufacturers. Goods and equipment packages,
including vehicles, estimated to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent each would be procured through ICB,
using bidding documents drafted based on the Bank's sample bidding documents for goods (SBDG) with needed
changes to comply with Iranian procurement practices. The bulk of contraceptives as well as highly specialized
medical equipment would be procured through limited international bidding (LIB) procedures since there are
only a few well-known suppliers. Norplant, a proprietary contraceptive, and spare parts and other proprietary
components required for 0 & M purposes, would be procured through Direct Contracting (DC). International
Shopping (IS) with at least three quotations from three eligible countries would be used for contracts estimated
to cost less than US$250,000 with an aggregate limit of US$2.0 million. The local manufacturers and suppliers
are expected to win about 40 percent of total contracts.



-18-
IRAN
Table 4.2: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditures
RIALS                  USS
billion              million                   %Total
%Foreign    Bae
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total Exchange   Cost
I. Investment Cost
A. Civil Works                 67.58  82.59  150.17   46.6  57.00  103.60       55      41
B. Equipment                    0.00  33.01  33.01    0.00  23.58  23.58       100       9
C. Furniture                   34.40   0.00  34.40  24.57   0.00  24.57          0      10
D. Vehicles                     0.00   15.13  15.13   0.00   10.80  10.80      100       4
E. Technical Assistance         1.51   3.33   4.84   1.08   2.38    3.46        69       1
F. Training                    11.03   1.24  12.27   7.88   0.88    8.76        10       3
Total Investment Costs         114.52  137.17 246.98  79.00  94.60  173.61       54      68
nI. Recurrent Coats
A. Incremental Personnel       57.33   0.00  57.33  40.95   0.00  40.95          0      16
B. Contraceptives               0.00   13.84  13.84   0.00   9.89   9.89       100       4
C. Increme. Operations & Maint.   17.45  25.95  43.40  12.21   18.79  31.00     61      12
Total Recurrent Costs           74.78   41.21 115.98   51.60  28.40   80.0       35      32
Total Baseline Costs           189.29  178.39 367.68  130.50  123.00 253.60      48    100
Physical Contingencies          6.76   12.39  19.15   4.70   8.50  13.20        64       S
Price Contingencies           121.91  91.38 213.28   17.40   9.80  27.20        36      11
Total Project Costs          |317.96  282.16 600.12  152.60 141.40 294.00        48    116
4.7 The procurement of civil works estimated to cost more than US$1,000,000 equivalent
would be through ICB, using the bidding documents drafted based on the Bank's sample bidding
documents for small works (SBDSW) with price adjustment provisions. As far as practicable,
these would be sliced and packaged in such a manner that all packages would be large enough to
attract international competition and, at the same time, would contain suitable "slices" to attract
small contractors. For works, estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 equivalent, in remote
provinces and that are spread geographically, and, which would not be attractive to foreign
bidders, procurement would be through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to
the Bank. For contracts not exceeding US$250,000 for individual RHCs, the Borrower will use
the bidding documents drafted based on the Bank's SBDSW with the fixed and lump-sum price
option with needed changes to comply with Iranian procurement practices. For other LCB
contracts, the Borrower will use documents drafted for ICB with price variation provisions, etc.
However, for procurement under LCB for the Bank-financed portion of the civil works, foreign
bidders would be allowed to participate. All civil works contracts with construction periods
exceeding eighteen months would be subject to price adjustment. Typically, the construction
period for a single RHC would be about eighteen months.



-19-
IRAN
TABLE 4.3 PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US $ 141.4 million equivalent)'
Procurement Method (USSM)
PROJECT ELEMENT                          ICB2      LCB'  OTHER   N.B.F.'  TOTAL
CIVIL WORKS                              73.0       48.5                          121.5
(39.5)    (26.3)                         (65.8)
GOODS
Medical Equipment'                      20.0                  8.0                28.0
(20.0)               (8.0)               (28.0)
Contraceptives'                                              11.4                11.4
(11.4)              (11.4)
Vehicles                               11.6                                      11.6
(11.6)                                   (11.6)
Spare parts & Supplies7                                      21.1                21.1
(21.1)              (21.1)
Furniture and local supplies                                          26.6       26.6
(0.0)     (0.0)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE'                                         3.8                  3.8
(2.6)               (2.6)
TRAINUNG                                                      9.2                  9.2
(0.9)               (0.9)
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                             60.8      60.8
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                                   104.6       48.5      53.5      87.4     294.0
(71.1)    (26.3)    (44.0)     (0.0)   (141.4)
4.8    Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded following the Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. Most of
the contracts will follow three different procedures - (i) comparison of three CVs for individual
consultants; (ii) selection based only on quality of proposals for studies, etc.; and (iii) selection
with price as one of the considerations (quality-80 percent & price-20 percent). There will be a
total of about 14 assignments ranging from 1 person-month to 300 person-months, the cost of
individual assignments ranging from US$10,000 to US$1 million. Specific details and terms of
reference of the various consultancy assignments appear in Annexes J & K. The Bank provided
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amount financed by the Bank Loan
V ICB: intenational competitive bidding
2/ LCB: local competitive bidding
4/ N.B.F.: non-bank financed (govemment financing of local cost items including incremental personnel and operation
and maintenance)
I/ Includes procurement through ICB (US$20M) and through limited intemational bidding-LIB (US$8  for highly
specialized medical equipment
§/ Includes procurement through LIB (US$7.6M) and through direct contracting-DC (US$3.8M) for NORPLANT, which
is obtainable only from one source
a Includes a mix of DC for spare parts and other proprietary items, and shopping for off-the-shelf items
I/ Procurement of consultants' services for technical assistance and training would follow Bank Guidelines



-20-
assistance to the Borrower in custom designing the bidding documents for goods, works and
consultants' contracts (a total of six bid packages). Joint review of these packages by
the Bank's appraisal mission and the Borrower was initiated during appraisal and was completed
by the Bank's team during negotiations for the purposes of speeding up the project
implementation process.
IRAN
TABLE 4.4: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
Disbursement Categories and Amount
USSM
WORLD BANK         Government of          Total
IRAN
Amount        %   Amount        %   Amount         %
A. Civil Works                65.8       54     55.7       46     121.5      41.3
B. Medical Equipment          28.0      100      0.0        0      28.0       9.5
C. Contraceptives             11.4      100      0.0        0      11.4       3.9
D. Vehicles                   11.6      100      0.0        0      11.6       4.0
E. Spare part & supplies      21.1      100      0.0        0      21.1       7.2
F. Furniture & local supplies  0.0       0      26.6       100     26.6       9.1
G. Technical Assistance        2.6       68      1.2       32       3.8       1.3
H. Training                    0.9       10      8.3       90       9.2       3.1
I. Incre. Opera. Costs         0.0        0      60.8      100     60.8      20.6
141.4      48    152.6        52    294.0       100
IRAN
Table 4.5: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
Disbursement Schedule (US$M)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1994 1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Annual            26.1 29.9  37.9  24.8  14.7   8.0
Cumulative        26.1 56.0  93.9 118.7 133.4 141.4
4.9   As the project implementation agency (i.e., MOHME), is not conversant with
international commercial practices or the Bank's procurement procedures, all procurement
activities under the project would be carried out and coordinated by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) that has been established in MOHME. PIU staff, because of their relatively limited
experience in handling of major projects, would need to be assisted by a consulting firm
specializing in procurement administration (i.e., to provide assistance in preparing and evaluadng
bids). During negotiations, the government agreed that it would retain consultants in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist with procurement administration under
the project, To ensure compliance with the Bank procurement guidelines, all contracts valued
above US$250,000, as well as all contracts for technical assistance and training would be subject
to prior Bank review. These limits would result in prior review of over 90 percent of total
procurement. All other contracts would be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank.



-21-
During negotiations. standard bidding documents for ICB. LCB. LIB and consultant services
acceptable to the Bank were submitted by the Borrower for the Bank's clearance. At least two
staff members from the PIU would be given training in procurement by ICB, through courses
conducted by ILO in Turin, Italy.
4.10 A Country Procurement Assessment has not yet been initiated. However, in the context
of this project, Iran's procurement regulations and procedures are under review by Bank staff and
consultants. Since it has not been established whether these are acceptable for the procurement
proposed under the project, assurances were obtained from GOI that the procurement of project
components to be financed from Bank loan proceeds would be strictly in accordance with the
requirements under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
4.11 Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower
(b) Comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the borrower, indicating:
(i) Revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies
(ii) Revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts
(iii) Compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Disbursement
4.12 The proposed Bank loan in the amount of US$141.4 million would be disbursed over a
period of six years against the categories and at the rates shown in Table 4.4. The Bank will
finance 54 percent of total expenditures for civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for equipment and vehicles, and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for spare parts and supplies, contraceptives and consultants' services and
training. The implementation period is less than the average disbursement profile for similar
projects in the region, but this is based on the duration of contracts and construction methods
specified. Furthermore, infrastructure improvements for RHCs can take place quickly because
MOHME has detailed architectural plans and designs for RHCs and the construction and
contracting industry has the necessary capacity to undertake the task. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is shown in Table 4.5. The Project Implementation Schedules are indicated in
Annex F, from which the Estimated Disbursement Schedule has been derived. Project
completion would be December 31, 1998, and the closing date would be June 30, 1999.
4.13 Disbursements against all items would be based on full documentation, except for
contracts below US$100,000, which would require only statements of expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documents for SOE claims would not be submitted for review by the Bank but
retained by the PIU and made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
4.14 A special account would be set up for the borrower to finance eligible expenditures under
the Bank loan and would follow Bank procedures in this regard. Such expenditures may include
civil works contracts procured through LCB as well as training and operation and maintenance.
The special account would be set up in a commercial bank, to which the World Bank would



-22-
make an initial deposit of up to US$3 million. During negotiations. the government agreed that it
would for the purposes of the project. open and maintain a special account in US dollars on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
Project Accounts and Audits
4.15 Separate accounts would be maintained for all expenditures made under the project.
Project accounts, including the special account, would be audited in accordance with the Bank
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). The Bank would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal year of
the Government, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the Government Auditing Office which has been
accepted by the Bank as an independent auditor, on disbursements against certified SOEs. The
financial record keeping would include a system for monitoring the submission of applications for
withdrawal and for special commitments and the reconciliation of records with those of the Bank.
During negotiations, the government agreed that it would fulfill the above as stated.
Project Supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16 Progress reports would be submitted by the PIU on a semiannual basis during each year
of project implementation. The reports would describe the state of project implementation
including procurement and disbursement status. The Bank would conduct two to three
supervision missions a year during the life of the project. Supervision missions generally would
be staffed by the following experts: a health specialist, a family planning specialist, an engineer
and a financial analyst. For a detailed supervision plan of the project, see Annex G.
4.17 A midterm review of all project activities would be conducted jointly by MEAF/MOHME
and the Bank. To facilitate the review, MEAF/MOHME would prepare a detailed report
covering all aspects of the project and submit it to the Bank by April 15, 1996 for a joint review
by June 15, 1996. The project completion report would be prepared by the implementing agency
and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after closing of the loan. During
negotiations, the government agreed that it would furnish the Bank with semiannual progress
reports on the implementation of the project: and undertake. with the Bank. a midterm review by
June 1996.
4.18 Several surveys and studies have been included in the project to periodically monitor the
impact of project activities on key health and demographic indicators. The project monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system would be supervised by the PIU. The performance of the two
health components and the family planning component of the project will be assessed through a
system with some parallel and some shared elements. (a) Separate tracking systems for health and
for family planning elements will be instituted, in order to give a periodic picture of
implementation and immediate impact. (b) The broad ultimate impact on the health and fertility of
the population will be evaluated using data from the same demographic and health surveys. These
should give a general picture, by the time the project is completed, of what the health system and
the family planning program have accomplished. (c) Evaluations of intermediate impact will rely
on special studies in health and in family planning. These are meant to provide information about
whether the choice of specific interventions and the way they are handled made a difference. For
a detailed description of the M&E system including tables with performance indicators for project
components, see Annex H.



-23-
Project Management and Implementation
4.19 As mentioned earlier, a PIU has been established within MOHME under the Deputy
Minister for Health Affairs. The PIU would have overall responsibility for supervising the
implementation of plans, and would monitor and evaluate project performance. The PIU would
coordinate with all relevant authorities inside and outside MOHME at the central, provincial and
district levels in order not to duplicate their existing functions. In particular, the PIU would
work closely with the Division for Development which is under a separate Deputy Minister,
whose office would provide technical advice on the design and construction plans of the project.
The PIU would have provincial counterparts, the provincial Department of Health Affairs, which
would supervise implementation through district health offices or, where necessary through other
private engineering firms at the district level. For terms of reference of the PIU, see Annex I.
So far, three key staff have been appointed to the PIU, a project manager, an engineer and a
financial officer. The size of the PIU would grow by about 10 additional staff by May/June
1993. During negotiations. the government agreed that it would maintain throughout the proiect
a national Project Implementation Unit with staffing. functions and authorities agreed with the
Bank.
4.20    Because the underserved areas are distributed fairly evenly throughout the country--a
reflection of the Government's strict policy for maintaining equity in developing the PHC net-
work--it was decided to include a relatively large number of provinces in the project. Provincial
and district health authorities would have the main responsibility for project implementation, and
each of the selected provinces and districts would have a workload well within their
implementation capability. Typically, central level responsibilities include designing the
architectural plans, allocating the necessary budget and monitoring overall implementation, while
actual implementation including the identification and selection of local contractors,
disbursements and field supervision are handled at the provincial and district levels. Field offices
are required by the central office to all follow similar operational procedures, whereby the
physical and financial completion rates of works are monitored according to standard formats.
Moreover, the lines of responsibly are clearly delineated at the various levels of the health care
system which facilitates communication and follow up on implementation by the central office.
4.21 Field observations in some provinces suggest that the engineering offices in those health
units should be capable of hiring and supervising contractors, particularly if the offices receive
some technical assistance, equipment and vehicles as is planned under the project. The PIU,
following the Bank's guidelines for the procurement of consultants, would select, wherever
needed, private consulting architects/engineers (A/E) firms to assist in project implementation.
Specifically, those consulting firms would be responsible for modifications or redesign of the
plans to suit local conditions, if needed. They would be contracted for successive phases of the
work, from preliminary studies and design development to working drawings and bidding
documents to implementation and supervision. Contracts for the implementation of civil works,
whether ICB or LCB would be awarded by the PIU.
4.22 The relative advantages of relying on private consulting firms to support local
implementation capacity has implications not only for the speed of construction and the quality of
work but also for the work of the health units themselves. Whereas the emphasis should be on
using the provincial and district health offices whenever they can meet appropriate criteria in
keeping with the project schedule, the use of private consultants in some areas may be inevitable.
That could ensure consistency in quality of project delivery across the various provinces, which
are likely to differ in capacity. Furthermore, supervision could be handled with less institutional
constraints on the part of the Government and with the same level of provincial/district staff.



-24-
For a complete account of the actions to be undertaken by the Government during implementation
along with the implementation schedules that have been developed for the various project
components, see Annex F, the Project Action Plan. During negotiations. the government agreed
that it would carry out the project in accordance with the Project Action Plan agreed upon with
the Bank.
Project Sustainability
4.23  The most important factor affecting the future sustainability of project activities is the
availability of funds to adequately staff and maintain the RHCs and related facilities and
equipment. Incremental recurrent costs covered by the project would ensure the sustainability of
operations during project life, and the government has agreed to afford the recurrent budget to do
so during, and beyond, project life. Annual recurrent expenditures under the project amount to
only an average of 3 percent of MOHME's annual recurrent budget for the period of the project.
Furthermore, there is no evidence that MOHME has faced any budget constraints for financing
recurrent costs associated with its PHC programs in the past, nor is there evidence that PHC
facilities are inadequately staffed or equipped anywhere in the country. Field observations of the
staffing and physical conditions of health care facilities presently in operation indicate a
satisfactory level of O&M. Public facilities, usually workshops located at the district and
provincial level, provide adequate repair and maintenance services. The use of private sector
O&M service companies is also common. During negotiations. the government ayreed that it
would allocate the necessary recurrent budget on an annual basis for the proper operation and
maintenance of all facilities included under the project.
Environmental Considerations
4.24    The project is classified under Category C (not requiring environmental analysis).
However, the modified designs for the RHCs would incorporate a waste disposal system for both
medical and sanitary wastes. The budgetary requirements for the operation and maintenance of
the system were included in the project's recurrent expenditures. In addition, typically each
RHC is staffed with a technician who holds a diploma in environmental health, while at the HH
level, the Behvarz receive training in environmental health. Among their duties, the health
workers would keep close watch over the environment of the village community, including the
use of water resources and latrines as well as energy and waste disposal methods. The project
would have several favorable environmental outcomes, but most importantly, by helping to
reduce population growth in the long run, it would reduce pressure on limited resources and aid
in combating environmental degradation.
Status of Project Preparation
4.25  Key PIU staff have been appointed and search is under way to appoint a procurement
specialist in addition to other staff. The custom-designed bidding documents that were prepared
for the project based on the Bank's sample bidding documents, were reviewed jointly by the Bank
and the government during negotiations, and were submitted by the government to the Bank for
clearance. The architectural design plans for the RHCs have all been completed, reviewed and
agreed with the Bank (four prototype designs to suit the four different climatic regions of the
country). All 623 villages where RHCs would be established have been identified, and most site
locations within these villages have been decided. Government counterpart budget for the project
has been approved by the Plan and Budget Organization based on the cost estimates computed
during appraisal.



-25-
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1      The project would increase access to public health services, especially primary
care and family planning, in rural underserved areas. With respect to family planning, it would
provide a major catalyst for the Government's effort to expand family planning services
nationwide. The project would also help bring rural health indicators more into line with urban
indicators.
5.2       The service delivery component would provide the backbone for extending the
health network to cover an additional 20 percent of the rural population, or about 5 million more
people. Through civil works and management training, improved services would also be
provided elsewhere throughout the health network. It is too optimistic to expect the least-served
areas quickly to attain the levels of health in better-served areas, but if the gap is closed by only
a half, infant mortality in rural areas could fall to 37 per 1,000 (the national average) from the
current level of 51 per 1,000.
5.3       The family planning component would provide a number of benefits:
(a) The enhancement of the reproductive choices available to couples, with particular benefits
for women and for the poor, who have less access to commercial services
(b) Improvements in infant and maternal health from reductions in the number of high risk
pregnancies and in the number of children requiring special attention and care
(c) A slower rate of population growth, with attendant welfare consequences, including a
reduction in pressure on government services, national savings and the environment
(d) a strengthened network for providing family planning services nationwide and, in
particular, a network that uses empirical information to continually modify its strategy
5.4      If the program provides as much contraceptive coverage as is being planned, in 5
years 1.3 million users should be added to the program, almost doubling the current number
covered by MOHME. This would imply a population growth rate as much as a third of a
percentage point below what it would be without the increments provided by the project and a
population by the year 2000 for the country as a whole 1.1 million smaller than without the
project.
Risks
5.5       The main risk relates to the lack of familiarity of the implementing agency with
Bank procedures in general. This risk would be given close attention during implementation. The
project would provide adequate technical assistance and training for PIU and MOHME staff in
the various areas of project management and implementation, especially in the areas of
procurement, disbursement, project supervision and evaluation.
5.6      As regards the family planning program, the major risk is that the new
management might not be able to implement the project component as designed or would



-26-
implement it without adjusting to the contingencies that a family planning program must consider.
Current management does, in fact, appear adequate to avoid this risk, but expansion and possible
turnover over the expected five-year duration of the project could complicate the picture. A
variety of measures have been taken to forestall this risk, such as management training and the
inclusion of operations research to ensure continued attention to current issues.
5.7      A second risk is uncertainty in how the public would actually react to an
expansion of contraceptive services. MOHME data suggest the reaction would be quite positive,
but the data are not conclusive. However, if demand for contraception is weaker than expected,
the project component does provide for information-education-communication services to help
expand demand. A separate Bank project in education would pay special attention to female
education, which would continue to be important for reinforcing contraceptive demand.
5.8      A third issue is the possibility that currently unanticipated political changes may
jeopardize the commitment to family planning. However, the revival of family planning after a
decade suggests a basic recognition of its importance. Although a reversal of policy is not
impossible, it would go against considerable public opinion and appears unlikely.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   During negotiations, the government agreed that it would:
(a) Allocate the necessary recurrent budget on an annual basis for the proper operation
and maintenance of all facilities included under the project (para. 4.23).
(b) Maintain throughout the project a national Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with
staffing, functions and authorities agreed with the Bank (para. 4.19).
(c) Furnish the Bank with semiannual progress reports on the implementation of the
project; and undertake, with the Bank, a midterm review by June 1996 (para. 4.17).
(d) For the purposes of the project, open and maintain a Special Account in US dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.14).
(e) Retain consultants in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to
assist with procurement under the project (para. 4.9).
(f) Maintain separate accounts for the project, and provide the Bank with an audit report
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
Government Auditing Office which has been accepted by the Bank as an independent auditor, on
disbursements against certified statement of expenditures, within six months of the end of each
fiscal year of the Government (para. 4.15).
(g) Carry out the project in accordance with an Action Plan agreed upon with the Bank
(para. 4.22 and Annex F).
6.2   With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$141.4
million at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of seventeen years, including
five years of grace. The Borrower would be the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.



-27-
ANNEX A.1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGRAM OF THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION
|   MINI:STER       l
Deputy Minister for                      Deputy Minister for
(Public)Health Affairs                     Curative Affairs
Deputy Minister for                      Deputy Minister for
Drugs and Nutrition                             Research
Deputy Minister for                 Deputy Minister for Legal
Training                     Cultural & Parl'mtry Afrs.
Deputy Minister for                        Deputy Minister for
Univ. Student Affairs                          Development
Deputy Minister for
Administration and Finance



-28-
ANNEX A.2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGRAM OF THE DIVISION FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION
DEPUTY FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS
AND
EXECUTIVE OF THE PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE (PHC) NETWORK
GENERAL                                                    ADVISORS
AFFAIRS                                                       TO
DEPUTY
PHC NETWORK            ALTERNATE TO THE            NAT'L CENTER FOR
EXPANSION              DEPUTY AND DIR.GEN.          THE MANAGEMENT OF
COORD. CENTER          PHC NETWORK                  HEALTH SERVICES
FAMILY & SCHOOL                 HEALTH EDUCATION
HEALTH DEPARTMENT               PROGRAMS DEPARTMENT
NON-COMMUNICABLE                COMMUNICABLE
DISEASE CONTROL                 DISEASE CONTROL
DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT
OCCUPATIONAL                    ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH DEPARTMENT               HEALTH DEPARTMENT
ORAL AND DENTAL                 POPULATION AND
HEALTH DEPARTMENT               FAMILY PLANNING
DEPARTMENT



-29-
ANNEX A.3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGRAM OF THE DIVISION FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS
THE PROVINCIAL AUTHORITY FOR HEALTH
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
DIRECTORATE OF           DIRECTORATE OF                    BUREAU OF EVALUATION                  EXECUTIVE
DRUG SUPPLY              CURATIVE AFFAIRS                  INSPECTION & CONSIDE-                 DIRECTORS
RATION OF COMPIAINTS                 OFFICE
DEPUTY FOR                                                   DEPUTY FOR HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION AND                                                AFFAIRS & MANAGER OF
FINANCIAL AFFAIRS                                             PROVINCIAL HEALTH CENTRE
PERSONNEL
DISTRICT HEALTH NETWORK



-30-
ANNEX A.4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGRAM OF THE DIVISION FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS
DISTRICT HEALTH NETWORK
DIRECTOR OF
DISTRICT HEALTH NETWORK
DISTRICT HEALTH CENTRE                         DISTRICT HOSPITAL
BEHVARZ
TRAINING
CENTRE
A   EURBAN HEALTH CENTRE 
RURAL HEALTH CENTRE
HEALTH HOUSES



-31-
ANNEX B
THE HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM IN IRAN
1.    The public sector is the main provider of health in Iran. The Government owns most of
the health care facilities and provides most of the health services and financing. Health facilities
operated by the Government are organized into three levels of service delivery. At the village
and community level, the primary health care network consists of Rural and Urban Health
Centers and Health Houses. At the secondaa level, District Health Centers (DHCs) and District
Hospitals provide support to and referral for primary health care facilities. The tertiary level
includes provincial and national hospitals, as well as specialized facilities (e.g., psychiatric
hospitals) located in the main cities.
Primary Health Care Network
2. The primary health care network currently consists of 1,814 Rural Health Centers (RHCs),
1,693 Urban Health Centers (UHCs), 10,620 Health Houses (HHs) and a number of mobile
units. A very large proportion--often estimated to exceed 85 %--of the health problems affecting
the majority of the population can be satisfactorily addressed at this level.
3. The HH is the initial point of contact between the individual and the health system. The HH
provides services to a population of 500-2,000 in a main village and two or three satellite villages
(located within 3 km or half an hour's walking distance from the HH). In areas where HHs have
not yet been established, mobile units provide the main preventive services (e.g., immunization)
to the communities. Each HH is staffed by a male and a female Behvarz (community health
worker). Behvarz are from the communities they serve. After primary school, they receive
two-years training--including fourteen months of on-the-job training--in one of the Behvarz
Training Centers (usually located at the district level). Behvarz are civil servants intimately
involved in village life. Almost without exception, they know every family in the village. Their
major responsibilities include health education, mother and child care, neonatal care, family
planning, child growth monitoring, environmental health, immunization, data collection and
reporting. The female Behvarz takes care of activities related to women and children, including
family planning. In family planning, the Behvarz provides pills and condoms and refers clients
to RHCs for IUD insertion and, eventually, to hospitals for sterilization. She also conducts
follow-up house visits. The male Behvarz is responsible for environmental health and
immunization in the villages.
4.  RHCs constitute the backbone of the PHC network. They are the first referral point for
community-level services and provide a wide range of basic curative and preventive services--
including family planning--to the communities. RHCs are staffed by one or two medical doctors,
an assistant pharmacist, an aid-nurse and two to five health technicians, depending on the size of
the RHC. Health technicians are a special cadre of paramedical personnel, having two years of
university education, and provide some of the main services delivered as part of the PHC
package, e.g., communicable disease control, environmental health, mother and child health,
laboratory services and oral health. RHCs supervise, as well as provide technical and logistical
support to the extensive network of outreach services (i.e., HHs, mobile services and village-
based community health workers such as rural midwives). Each RHC serves a population of
5,000 to 7,000 and covers, through weekly supervision, up to 5 HHs. Equally important, RHCs



-32-
play a determining role in the referral of patients to district and provincial hospitals. The
establishment of RHCs is a prerequisite to the establishment and expansion of PHC services in
rural areas.
5. UHCs perform a parallel function to RHCs, but in urban areas. However, there are virtually
no out-reach services (i.e., HHs or community health workers) in urban areas, and the role of
UHCs is therefore generally limited to that of an (often fairly large) out-patient facility. The role
of UHCs in referring patients to hospitals is also more limited because of the latter's physical
location in urban settings.
6. The development of the PHC network is generally credited with much of the progress made
in improving health conditions during the past few years, despite economic difficulties and high
population growth rates. Initial planning of the PHC network has been very careful. Detailed
information on health and demographic conditions have been collected in every district and the
needs for developing the PHC network assessed very thoroughly.
Secondary Level
7. At the secondary level, the District Health Center (DHC) constitutes the smallest independent
unit in the managerial structure of the health system. The country's 220 DHCs are responsible
for expanding, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the PHC network. As such, they provide
the necessary administrative, logistical (e.g., procurement, storage and distribution of medical
supplies) and technical support to PHC facilities. Also at the secondary level, District Hospitals
constitute the frontline referral services for patients who can not be satisfactorily attended to at
RHCs. A typical DHC consists of at least seven specialized departments (surgery, internal
medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, anaesthetics, radiology and laboratory), as well
as hospitalization wards, specialized clinics and an emergency section.
Tertiary Level
8. Various types of medium and large-size tertiary hospitals, located in the main cities offer a
wide range of specialized care (including rehabilitation in some cases) and diagnostic services.
There are 621 hospitals (excluding military hospitals) for a total of 82,694 beds (1990).
MOHME facilities account for 73.6 percent of hospital beds nation-wide, but in provinces such
as Sistan/Baluchestan, Kordestan and Zanjan, this percentage stands at 95. The national
population per bed ratio is 681, but regional discrepancies are significant. This ratio exceeds
1000 in 33 percent of the provinces, such as in Lorestan where the population per bed is 2068,
compared to 383 in Tehran province.
9. A small but viable private sector exists in the country. It includes about 200 private
hospitals, which provide services mainly to insured workers, medical laboratories and 10,000
private practitioners (4,000 of whom work simultaneously in the private and public sectors). The
private sector is becoming an increasingly important provider of health care, particularly in urban
areas. Private hospitals account for 12 percent of the total number of beds, more than half of
which are located in Tehran province. Most private sector financing comes through health
insurance (private and public), out-of-pocket payments and direct public sector contracts.
Health Manpower
10.       There were about 17,000 physicians in 1990, 2.5 percent more than in 1986.
However, figures for the 1980s do not show an increase in doctors commensurate with Iran's



-33-
high population growth. One major cause of decline in the number of physicians was emigration
after the revolution. The number of doctors in Iran fell from 16,200 in 1979 to 14,725 in 1981.
The average population per physician is more than 3,000 nation-wide, but discrepancies exist, for
example, this ratio is about 650 in Tehran compared to almost 6,000 elsewhere. There is less
than one nurse per 1,000 citizens.
11.      A major effort was undertaken regarding medical training. The responsibility for
medical education, previously under the Ministry of Education, was transferred to the Ministry of
Health in 1986 in an attempt to orient medical education more in the direction of national PHC
policies. Medical education is administered by 25 universities of medical sciences in 19
provinces and an additional 5 colleges of medical sciences in 5 other smaller provinces and cities.
Each University of Medical Sciences is assigned a community practice area, which is a district
health network up to 40--100 km away from its base for community-oriented learning within the
PHC network. Most universities of medical sciences are able to qualify students in different
aspects of medical sciences leading to the A.D., B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D., M.D., in addition to
various specialists in both undergraduate and postgraduate programs.
12.   Medical training has expanded significantly during the past decade. Admissions for
various areas of medical studies have increased rapidly in every course of medical training since
1985/86. The number of new admissions for students studying dentistry and pharmacy in
1990/91 has increased by over 60 percent from the levels attained in 1985/86. In 1992, the
number of admissions in nursing courses was 3,800, a 62 percent rise compared to 1985. In
1984, only 7 percent of hospital facilities were designated as teaching facilities, whereas in 1990
over 24 percent of hospitals were classified as teaching hospitals with 38 percent of total hospital
beds classified as teaching beds. Medical education faculty has increased by 77 percent during
the past 8 years. As a result, the total number of students studying different courses of medical
sciences increased in all areas by more than 90 percent during 1991/92 over the 1984-85 levels.
In 1990/91, there were about 75,500 students enrolled in medical sciences courses compared to
30,000 in 1985/86. The number of students increased by more than 200 percent in medicine,
170 percent in nursing and 130 percent in midwifery.
Management of Medical SupDfies
13.   During the past decade, the consumption of drugs increased three-fold, mainly due to the
expansion of health services, the increase in population and greater health awareness among
people. Local drug manufacturers, mainly public, produce about 85 percent of all drugs
consumed in the country, compared to 20 percent before the revolution. The 22 essential drugs
required for the PHC network are all produced locally. Imports of pharmaceutical products
account for 15 percent of national consumption and 50 percent of the total budget for drugs.
Also, 80 percent of the raw materials necessary for local production is imported. Different
exchange rates are used: (i) Rls#70/$ for essential drugs and raw materials; and (ii) Rls#660/$
for packaging materials. This situation creates occasional shortages of about 200 products when
there are insufficient foreign currency allocations. MOHME sets pharmaceutical prices, which
are heavily subsidized: 60 percent for highly essential drugs; 50 percent for vital drugs; and 10
percent for vitamins and minerals.
14.      The purchase of pharmaceutical supplies and their allocation to the provinces is
managed at the central level. This allocation is based on current needs, estimated future demand
and budget constraints. Drugs storage and distribution throughout the country is handled by five
public companies. Storage facilities are available at the provincial and district levels. Distribution
takes place on a bi-weekly basis.



-34-
ANNEX C
THE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE NETWORK
1.    Component A of the project would increase the coverage of the PHC network in selected
rural areas while improving, nationwide the management of services. This annex provides
additional information on the project sub-component dealing with the expansion of the PHC
network.
2.     This part of the project would expand the PHC network in selected underserved rural
areas by establishing 623 RHCs.
3.     Fourteen provinces have been selected for their relatively poor health and demographic
conditions and the limited coverage of their existing PHC infrastructure in rural areas. These
provinces are: Tehran, Mazandaran, East Azarbayejan, West Azarbayejan, Khuzestan, Fars,
Kerman, Khorasan, Sistan/Baluchestan, Kordestan, Hormazgan, Lorestan, Hamadan and Zanjan.
4.     The procedure for selection of these facilities has involved three successive steps:
1) Selection of the provinces. This was done on the basis on information regarding
health and demographic conditions on the one hand and PHC infrastructure on the other
hand. For the health and demographic conditions, the following five indicators were:
IMR, Under-five Mortality Rate, Neo-Natal mortality Rate, Maternal Mortality Rate,
Total Fertility Rate, and Contraceptive Prevalence Rate '. As for the need to develop
fturther the PHC network, MOHME has been maintaining since the start of the PHC
program very comprehensive records on the existing and 'required' health infrastructure
in every district of the country. Based on this information, the PHC infrastructure
required in each province could be easily assessed 2. The 14 provinces which were most
in need were then selected for inclusion in the Project. It was necessary to include a
relatively large number of provinces in order to insure that every single provincial
authority concerned has the capability to implement its share of the Project.
2) Selection of RHCs. Within the health care delivery system, the Project would focus
on RHCs because of their essential role in supporting outreach facilities and services in
rural areas such as HHs and Mobile Units, (see also Chapter 2). In each of the 14
provinces, the provincial health authorities selected a number of villages where a RHC
needed to be established as well as a number of existing RHCs which needed replacement
(either because they were accommodated in rented facilities or because they were totally
inadequate, though owned by the Government). The selection, made in close consultation
with the District Health Officers was strictly based on the master plans referred to above.
Each province was allocated a number of RHCs proportional to its total population, (a
total number of 600 to 650 was proposed to the Government based on the desired size of
the loan, the results to be achieved and the relative importance of other Project
components). Within each province, the main priority was given to villages with
relatively larger population and/or with higher needs (e.g., existence of foci of major
I/     All indicators were estimated during a national health survey carried out by MOHME in 1988.
/ In a given province, the infrastructure required" is defined by the number of facilities which wil be eventuall
needed to achieve fu1l coverage (i.e. a health facility wiU be available within one hour from any community - a standard
which is used in most developing countries) minus the existing number of facilities.



-35-
endemic diseases, deprived communities, etc.). Other criteria such as physical
accessibility were also used. Each location finally selected was discussed extensively
between provincial authorities and MOHME officers in charge of the PHC network at the
central level.
Table CA: Rural Health Infrastructure in the 14 Provinces
Rural health centers              Health houses
To be                  Needed   To be
Total       Needed to added by    Total        to fil added by
Province               planned  Existing  fill plan  prowect  planned  Existing    Plan  govern-
Tehran                   126      58      68      16    422    298        124     29
Mazandaran               280     135     145      77    1685     839     846    449
E. Azarbayejan           229     125     104      76    1867    843    1024    748
W. Azarbayejan           145      87      58      26    945      659    286    128
Khuzestan                140      60      80      40    853    403       450    225
Fars                     182     131      51      24    959    540    419        197
Kerman                   149      98      51      22     803    607      196      85
Khorasan                 275     149     126      60    1807    1080    727    346
Sistan & Baluchestan     134      83      51      24     829    449      380      179
Kordestan                 90      61      29      16    578    412       166      92
Hormazgan                 82      73       9       3    431    231       200      67
Lorestan                  81      51      30      12    483    284       199       80
Hamadan                   95      71      24      19    573    406        167     132
Zanjan                   105      66      39      21     608    371      237     128
TOTAL                   2113    1248     865    436  12843   7422   5421   2732
Table C.2: Urban and District Health Infrastructure in the 14 Provinces
Urban health centers      District health centers
Province                         Total planned      Existing Total planned    Existing
Tehran                                   926           188           14            12
Mazandaran                                189          129           17            15
E. Azarbayejan                           232           156            18           16
W. Azarbayejan                            122           59           12            12
Khuzestan                                203           104           15            14
Fars                                      198           86           16            13
Kerman                                    92            68           10            10
Khorasan                                 240           131           22            20
Sistan & Baluchestan                       57           41            7             7
Kordestan                                 54            40            6             6
Hormazgan                                  30           27            6             6
Lorestan                                   78           46            6             6
Hamadan                                    67           48            6             6
Zanjan                                     68           38            5             2
TOTAL                                   2556          1161          160           145



-36-
5.    Because of the procedure used to select the provinces, health and demographic conditions
in these provinces are, overall, less favorable than the country's average. For example, 12 of the
14 provinces have IMRs which are at least 35 percent higher than the national average of 33.
However, accurate information on the health and demographic situation in the 623 locations could
not be provided, primarily because the main sources of information are the HHs which, by
definition, have not yet been established in these locations, (see also Annex H, Project
Monitoring and Performance System).
6.    The current PHC infrastructure in the 14 provinces includes 1,248 RHCs, 7,422 HHs,
and 145 District Health Centers. Overall, this infrastructure constitutes about 59 % of the
requirements to achieve full coverage of services. The existing and "required" health
infrastructure in the 14 provinces is summarized in Tables C. 1 and C.2 above.
7.    Detailed information on each new RHC to be established under the Project or existing one
to be replaced is available on file. In total, of the 623 RHCs, 436 (70 %) would be established
in villages where no health facility exist at present, 104 (16.7 %) would replace rented RHCs
which are inadequate, and 83 (13.3 %) would replace government-own RHCs which are also
inadequate. A summary of the number of RHCs by province with a breakdown by new,
replacement of rented and replacement of inadequate (government-own) facility is provided at
Table C.3 below.
Table C.3: RHCs to be established under the project
Replacement for
inadequate
New (no facility    Replacement for    government
No. of      exists)        rented facilities     facilities
Province              RHCs    No.           %      No.         %     No.         X
Tehran                   20      16      80.0        2      10.0       2      10.0
Mazandaran               90      77      85.6        9      10.0       4       4.4
E. Azarbayejan           95      76      80.0       13      13.7       6       6.3
W. Azarbayejan           40      26      65.0       14      35.0       0       0.0
Khuzestan                40      40     100.0        0       0.0       0       0.0
Fars                     45      24      53.3        9      20.0      12      26.7
Kerman                   30      22      73.3        5      16.7       3      10.0
Khorasan                100      60      60.0       18      18.0      22      22.0
Sistan &                 40      24      60.0       11      27.5       5      12.5
Baluchestan
Kordestan                30      16      53.3        3      10.0      11      36.7
Hormazgan                13       3      23.1       10      76.9       0       0.0
Lorestan                 20      12      60.0        8      40.0       0       0.0
Hamadan                  20      19      95.0        1       5.0       0       0.0
Zanjan                   40      21      52.5        1       2.5      18      45.0
TOTAL                   623    436       70.0      104      16.7      83      13.3



-37-
8.    The "standard" type of services normally provided at RHCs will be rendered at the
Project facilities. Likewise, manpower and other resources (e.g., medical supplies, expenditure
for repair and maintenance, etc.) would be in accordance to national standards. These standards
have been used to assess the incremental resources implications resulting from this component.
Because of the relative importance of manpower resources (both in terms of recurrent costs
implications and training needs), particular attention was given to assess future needs resulting
from the Project. Overall, it has been estimated that 2,890 Health Technicians, 1,345 Aid
Nurses, and 90 midwives would be needed to staff the 623 RHCs. The existing training
infrastructure for paramedical personnel is sufficient to meet the above requirements. Table C.4
below provides a breakdown of the additional requirements for paramedical manpower resulting
from the Project (upper part of the table) as well as a summary of the training capacity for these
categories of personnel in the 14 provinces. As for the Behvarz, with an annual output of 3,000
new graduates, the existing 197 Behvarz Training Centers would have no difficulty to produce
during 1996-2000 the additional 5,000 or 6,000 Behvarz who would also be needed to staff the
HHs to be established (by the Government) in the catchment area of the 623 RHCs.
Table C.4: Requirements for the main categories of paramedical personnel
under the project and estimated training capacity in the project area
Disease    Family           Environ-     Oral
control    health    Lab    mental    health
pndicator oretechni-   techni-    health   techni-                              Aid
Indicator orcians        clans    dams    techni-     dlans              nurses
period                                          cdam              MMe
Additional paramedical personnel required
1995-9C             70        70       140        70        90         0       165
1996-97             120      120       180       120       110        30       320
1997-98             150      150       200       150       110        25      390
1998-99             120      120       190       120       100        20      280
1999-00              60       60       150        60        60        15       190
Total               520      520       860       520       470        90      1345
Training capacity in the 14 provinces
No. of training      10        10       21        12         4        27       107
facilities
Annual output       150       150     1060       465       110      1110      3240
9.    In 1991, the rural population of the 14 provinces was about 19.3 million or 77 percent of
the total rural population of the country. About 10.3 million people or 53 % of that population
was being covered by the PHC network. The Project is expected to increase that coverage to
about 9 % of the total rural population. Table C.5 below summarizes these estimates by
province.



-38-
Table C.5: Current and Projected Health Coverage In the 14 Provinces
Targeted coverage after      Expected
Current health coverae        project completion        incuse Ion
popWlation
Total rural                                                            coverage (%
Province             population        No.            %            No.            %            gin)
Tehran                1,730,382         330,141       19.08        377,338       21.81              2.73
Mazandaran            2,262,199       1,476,814       65.28       2,066,588      91.35             26.07
E. AzarbayeJan        2,376,307         932,894       39.26       1,411,230       59.39            20.13
W. Azarbayejan        1,213,055         893,415       73.65       1,088,849       89.76            16.11
Khuzestan             1,201,098         613,709       51.10        895,482       74.56             23.46
Fars                  1,735,727       1,155,650      66.58        1,314,159      75.71              9.13
Kerman                1,053,196         651,858      61.89         795,460       75.53             13.63
Khorasan              3,212,426       1,396,019      43.46        1,798,033      55.97             12.51
Sistan &                801,755         373,830      46.63         517,691       64.57             17.94
Baluchestan
Kordestan               637,508         490,445       76.93        576,994       90.51             13.58
Hormazgan               421,027         318,896       75.74         326,092      77.45              1.71
Lorestan                735,928         459,966       62.50        555,847       75.53             13.03
Hamadan                 988,402         684,586       69.26         838,950       84.88            15.62
Zanjan                  936,682         545,481       58.24        675,062       72.07             13.83
TOTAL                19,305,692      10,323,704       53.47      13,237,775      68.57             15.09



-39-
ANNEX D
THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
1. This annex provides a more detailed description of the family planning component of the
project. The component is meant to contribute to a substantial expansion in family planning over
the next five years: in the number of contraceptive users and in the variety of methods they use,
as well as in the institutional capacity of MOHME to study, plan, promote and manage this
expansion. The project includes a sixth year to wind down activities and complete their
evaluation. No new elements will be introduced in the sixth year. For purposes of this discussion,
"1993" will be used to refer to the first project year, "1994" to the second project year, and so
on.
2. The family planning component would have these subcomponents:
* Provision of new contraceptive options
* Management strengthening
* Information-education-communication campaigns
* Evaluation and research.
Provision of New Contraceptive Options
3. This subcomponent is intended to overcome an excessive reliance on a narrow range of
locally produced contraceptives, mainly pills and older types of IUDs. It would provide a variety
of imported contraceptive commodities, as well as the facilities and training for effective
distribution.
Rationale
4. Between a third and a half of contraceptive users now rely on pills, and an additional 10-15
percent rely on older types of IUDs. Shortages of some contraceptives, particularly condoms, are
also reported. Recent expansions of the method mix mainly involve sterilization, which has been
officially allowed for contraception only in the last couple of years. For this method too, existing
procedures require improvement.
5. The project would diversify the method mix with these new contraceptive options:
* Low-dose progestin-only minipills
* TCu-380A and TCu-38OAg IUDs
* An injectable, DMPA
* An implant, Norplant
* Minilaparotomy
Additional supplies of condoms would also be provided. Mobile facilities would be used on an
experimental basis in some areas, mainly for minilaparotomy, but also for Norplant and the new
IUDs; these facilities would also allow some expansion in the availability of vasectomies.



-40-
6. The rationale for each method to be supplied is as follows:
* Minipills are important for women who are breastfeeding (except for those fully
breastfeeding within six months postpartum, who do not require additional protection). A
1992 knowledge, attitudes, and practice (KAP) survey suggests that breastfeeding women
may account for a third of nonusers; even if this is an overstatement, the number
requiring the method must be large.
*  The new IUDs are meant to replace older, less effective ones now in use, mainly the
TCu-200, a multiload IUD, and the Cu-7.
*  The injection and the implant provide additional options for users, as longer-acting
methods that appear to be acceptable to the population.
*  Minilaparotomy is a simpler and cheaper sterilization procedure than those currently in
use. It should be possible to provide this method more widely than current methods.
Sterilization in general, has proven to be hugely attractive in the couple of years since it
has been legally allowed.
*  The demand for condoms continues to be strong. In 1991, 32 million were distributed, as
opposed to 21 million in 1990. Although the method is less effective than other methods,
the condom has additional advantages in containing the spread of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and other sexually transmitted diseases.
7. The acceptability of these methods should not be a problem. Several of them replace or
supplement equivalent methods. The two methods that are entirely new to the program are the
injection, DMPA, and the implant, Norplant. An injectable was part of the pre-revolution family
planning program and was widely accepted. For Norplant, an acceptability trial has been run at
two Tehran hospitals with advice from the Population Council. No major acceptability issues
emerged. Nevertheless, the Technical Committee for the Population and Family Planning
Department (PFP) has decided to proceed cautiously, recognizing that the spotting attributed to
the method may be a culturally sensitive issue. For the first year, Norplant is to made available
only in medical universities throughout the country. Subsequent distribution would focus first on
urban areas.
8. Initially, all these new contraceptives are to be imported. Local production exists for pills,
IUDs, and condoms but is inadequate to the need. A minipill formulation has been under
consideration for some time, but production has not started. The IUDs produced are older
models. And condom production appears to be small and to fall short of demand. The project
will support a local production study in the third year to identify the obstacles to upgrading local
production so it can fill more of the need.
Contraceptive targets and commodity requirements
9. Required contraceptive commodities for 1993-97 were estimated using the computer program
Target-Cost, which implements what has become known as proximate determinants methodology.
The key assumptions concerned fertility and contraceptive prevalence levels and targets; the
method mix, current and projected; attributes of different contraceptive methods, including use-
effectiveness, discontinuation ratios, average age of users and source distribution; and estimates
of women of reproductive age and current and projected levels of other proximate determinants.



-41-
10.   Because current fertility and contraceptive prevalence levels are controversial, four
different scenarios were run:
* A base scenario, which provides a relatively smooth increase in contraceptive use from
1990 and 1991 levels determined from reported contraceptive consumption
* An alternative scenario, which uses fertility and contraceptive prevalence levels closer to
those of the 1992 KAP survey and adopts previous MOHME fertility decline and
contraceptive increase targets
* A high scenario, which adopts the fertility rate from the 1992 KAP survey and as high a
contraceptive prevalence rate as the model allows (not quite as high as the survey rate)
* A low scenario, which uses a relatively low contraceptive prevalence rate consistent with
intercensal fertility estimates (Table D.1).
Table D.1: Four Scenarios for Fertility and Contraceptive Prevalence, Iran, 1992-97
Total fertility                 Contracepive prevalence
Scenario                 1992               1997              1992               1997
Base                      5.5               4.3               35.0               47.3
Altemative                5.0               4.2               45.0               51.8
High prevalence           4.7               3.5               50.0               60.7
Low prevalence            5.5               4.3               25.0               39.6
11.   In each scenario, total fertility starts at a medium to high level. In three scenarios, it falls
1.2 points in 5 years, an ambitious decline close to the fastest declines recorded in other
countries. In the alternative scenario, fertility falls less, by only 0.8 points in 5 years, still faster
than the typical decline in developing countries. Contraceptive prevalence (for all methods from
all sources) starts at very different levels. The target contraceptive prevalence for 1997 is
estimated in each case from the corresponding fertility decline. It amounts to an increase in
prevalence of 2.1 to 2.9 points annually, except for the alternative scenario, which projects an
increase averaging 1.4 points annually.
12.   The current method mix is taken from the 1992 KAP survey. By 1997, modern
contraceptives are expected to partly displace traditional methods, and longer-acting methods are
expected to partly displace short-acting ones. Current and projected method mixes are identical
across scenarios. Source mix (between MOHME and the private sector) in the initial year is
taken from the 1992 KAP survey, and slight increases are allowed in the MOHME share up to
1997 (Table D.2). Such method attributes as use-effectiveness, discontinuation and the average
age of users are taken as comparable to international standards, given the lack of detailed country
data.
13.   The estimates of women of reproductive age come from a standard World Bank
projection. Levels of the other proximate determinants are roughly estimated from general
information about fertility, and slight changes in marriage pattern and postpartum infecundability
are allowed.



-42-
Table D.2: Assumed Contraceptive Method Mix and MOHME
Share of Users, Iran, 1992 and 1997 (percentages)
Method mix                      Percent provided by MOHE
Method                         1992              1997                   1992              1997
Condom                           9.9                9                   65.2                70
Female sterilization            11.7                18                  76.0                80
Injectable                       0.0              1.25                 100.0               100
IUD                             11.0                17                  57.8                65
Male sterilization               1.4                 2                  76.0                80
Norplant                         0.0              1.25                 100.0               100
Oral                            35.0                32                  57.5                60
Traditional                     31.0              19.5                   0.0                 0
Table D.3: Projected Contraceptive Users, Acceptors, and Consumption, by method,
MOHME, Iran, 1992-97: Base run
Tubec-                           Vasec-
Year      Total       Condoes       tomy    Injectables    IUDs       tomy    Norplant      Orals
Contraceptive users (thousands)
1992       1380.2          207.7      286.1        0.0       204.6      34.2        0.0        647.6
1993       1593.7          227.3      358.3        6.3       261.7      41.3        0.0        705.2
1994       1835.5          247.3      431.6       21.2       318.7      49.2       12.6        763.6
1995       2101.0          267.8      513.9       38.5       383.7      58.0       27.3        823.0
1996       2374.6          286.6      599.9       57.1       455.5      67.3       44.1        877.1
1997       2690.7          307.9      703.8       76.0       540.1      78.2       61.1        938.4
Contraceptive accptors (thousands)
1992        486.5          104.6       76.2        0.0       109.1       7.5        0.0        189.1
1993        547.0          113.0       78.3       12.6       120.9       8.5       12.6        201.3
1994        607.6          121.7       88.4       17.3       139.6       9.5       17.4        213.7
1995        654.5          128.4       93.2       22.4       157.8      10.2       22.5        220.1
1996        725.5          128.8      112.4       26.1       182.1      11.8       26.3        238.1
1997        796.4          129.2      131.6       29.8       206.3      13.5       30.0        256.0
Contraceptive consumption (thousands of units)
1992           -         31153.8       76.2        0.0       109.1       7.5        0.0       9713.3
1993           -         34092.0       78.3       25.1       120.9       8.5       12.6      10577.3
1994           -         37094.1       88.4       84.9       139.6       9.5       17.4      11454.5
1995           -         40162.0       93.2      154.0       157.8      10.2       22.5      12345.5
1996           -         42987.3      112.4      228.5       182.1      11.8       26.3      13156.2
1997           -         46189.0      131.6      303.9       206.3      13.5       30.0      14076.7
Incremental consumption to befunded (thousandy of units)
1993           -          2938.1        -         25.1       120.9        -        12.6        528.9
1994           -          5940.3        -         84.9       139.6        -        17.4       1145.5
1995           -          9008.1        -        154.0       157.8        -        22.5       1851.8
1996           -         11833.4        -        228.5       182.1        -        26.3       2631.2
1997           -         15035.2        -        303.9       206.3        -        30.0       3519.2
- Not applicable.
* The preproject year 1992 appears in some panels of the table in order to show the base from which the proct starts.



-43-
14.   The four scenarios then provide annual estimates of contraceptive users and acceptors
supplied by MOHME, illustrated in Figure D.1. The numbers of users are quite different among
scenarios, but numbers of acceptors are closer to each other because the projected fertility
declines are reasonably similar. In particular, annual acceptors in the base scenario and the
alternative scenario are similar.
15.   Which scenario is correct has limited effect on incremental costs, which are the focus of
the project. It does affect base costs, however. Initial expenditures for commodities in 1992 are
not readily determined because of rapid increases in consumption from 1990 to 1991 and
expected further increases in 1992. The base scenario is the most consistent with the 1990 and
1991 consumption figures, but the 1992 KAP survey figures differ. Resolving the issue of where
contraceptive prevalence actually stands should be a MOHME priority and is addressed under the
evaluation and research subcomponent below.
16.   Table D.3 shows contraceptive users relying on MOHME by method and year in the base
scenario. From 1992 to 1997, total users of MOHME-supplied contraceptives should increase, if
the fertility target is to be met, by over 1.3 million (almost doubling in number). In 1997, there
should be 420,000 more women sterilized than in 1992; 340,000 more using IUDs; 290,000
more using pills; 100,000 more couples relying on condoms; 60,000 more women using Norplant
and injectables; and 45,000 more men sterilized. The increase in the use of sterilization, though
greater than the increase in the use of pills, would require only half the number of acceptors
annually in comparison to pills.
17.   Commodities covered by the project, assumed to be all imported, are shown in the bottom
panel of the table D.3. These include all the injectables and implants required from 1993 to 1997;
all the IUDs required for the same period, as current devices are phased out; the incremental
number of condoms required in each year (over the base year 1992); and that proportion of oral
contraceptive consumption covered by minipills. Minipill consumption is assumed to involve 5
percent of pill consumption. Local products may eventually fill more of the requirements, but the
costs are unlikely to be reduced by much, if at all.
18.   The regular MOHME budget should continue to cover the base level of condoms, the
remaining proportion of pills, and the costs of sterilization operations and IUD insertions. After
the expected substantial growth in users in 1993-97, MOHME will be expected to begin to cover
Figure D.1: MOBME-supplied contraceptive users
and acceptors, Iran, 1992-97: four scenarios
3500 -                                                            r3500
3000-                                                            ;-S00
26000                              U--r   2600
2000' =                 =2                                    _ 2000
1loco                                                             -1600
1 000 = = = = 9,1  00
~~~~~~~~~~Aaaoptors
1992        1993        1994         1255        1is6
[._       Aw-Sne*.    High    Lew 



-44-
more of the costs of imported commodities and to consider approaches for increasing cost
recovery.
Facilities and training
19.    Most of the increased contraceptive distribution is to be handled by MOHME staff
assigned to the primary health care network, as they already handle family planning as part of
their regular duties. The additional facilities and equipment they would require and the improved
training they would need are discussed in this section. The additional demands the expanded
program will make on management, information-education-communication activities and
evaluation and research are covered under subsequent project subcomponents.
20.   The project would provide certain facilities for clinical methods, i.e., for
minilaparotomies, vasectomies, Norplant and IUDs. Equipment is an initial priority:
minilaparotomy kits would be provided for all public hospitals and for each provincial MOHME
office. These would be supplemented with 50 laparoscopy kits for hospital use, in order to
provide an alternative. To deliver these methods in rural areas under proper quality controls, the
project would improve certain facilities as part of the construction of rural health units (under the
service delivery component of the project). Behvarz would make referrals to these rural health
centers or, ultimately, to other levels of the health system for these methods.
21.   Since not all rural health centers would be prepared to provide these methods would and
many are not easily accessible from the countryside, an experiment with mobile teams would be
started in several provinces, including Hormazgan, Khuzestan, and Sistan and Baluchestan, which
have substantially lower contraceptive prevalence levels than the rest of the country. At least one
mobile team for family planning now exists, in the province of Kordestan, where it provides IUD
insertion services about once every two weeks in different villages. The project would allow
wider experimentation with this approach, as an interim measure until facilities and staff in every
area are fully adequate and accessible.
22.   Each of the 20 mobile teams to be constituted and equipped under the project is to consist
of a physician (general practitioner), a female midwife, a technician and a driver. The vans are to
be equipped with examining tables, cold storage facilities, and other such essentials, as well as
some amenities for the team, such as a kitchen. The team is to spend a day or less in each
village, attending to clients recruited in advance by the local Behvarz.
23.   The training needed by contraceptive providers (including the mobile teams) would be
handled in stages in a process that is used consistently throughout the health network. Central
staff would first be trained, for which four months of technical assistance and some overseas
training would be provided. Then two or more health staff from each province would be trained
in Tehran. They would return to their provinces and train additional providers, with training
assistance as needed from central office staff. Provincial staff would then conduct further training
within districts for local staff. Regular supervision would be used to ensure that staff absorb and
use their training. Training will cover the contraceptive methods and procedures themselves as
well as interpersonal relations with clients. (Other training, for management, information-
education-communication and research, is covered under the next project subcomponent.)
24.   A preliminary outline of the training plan is provided in Table D.4. Most of this training
is to be conducted in country and completed in the first two years of the project. The new
methods would be introduced gradually during these two years, as providers were trained for



-45-
specific areas. Priority would initially be assigned to training providers for the mobile teams and
for areas where the demand for contraception was strong.
Table D.4: Training plan for New Contraceptive Methods, MOHME, 1993-97
No. of seJ-
Staff to be trained      Number      Methods covered   Days   Level    Trainers    sions       Dates
University O-Gyns    15 (out of 23  Minilap,           14   Over-   Intema-           1      1993
plus 2 PFP staff      universities)   vasectomy,              seas     tional
plus 2        Norplant                           experts
University Ob-Gyns    17            Minilap,            14   National Interna-         1      1993
plus 2 PFP staff                    vasectomy,                         tional
Norplant                           experts
PFP staff             25 (out of    All new methods      5    National University      1      1993
40 staff)    (for general famil-                 Ob-Gyn
iarity)
Ob-Gyns in MOHME    100 (out of    Minilap,             14   National University       4      1993
hospitals             400 hospitals)  vasoctomy,                       Ob-Gyns
Norplant
Physicians recruited for   48       Minilap,            14   National University       2      1993
MOHME provincial                    vasectomy,                         Ob-Gyns
staff (Ob-Gyns and                  Norplant
GPs)
Midwives in MOHME          500      Norplant, IUD       21   Provin-  Provincial  1 each in  1993
provincial and district             insertion, DMPA,          cial     physicians  24 prov-
offices                             minipill                                      inces
Family health workers     5,000     Norplant, IUD        7    District  District    1 each in  1993
in MOHME health                     insertion, DMPA,                   midwives   200 dis-
centers and Behvarz in-             minipill                                      tricts
structors
Behvarz                   10,000    Minipill, DMPA       3    District  Behvarz    1 each in  1994
(plus screening                    instructors  200 dist-
procedures for                                ricts
other methods)
25.    The project would cover most of these training costs. However, routine training for health
network staff would continue side by side and would gradually incorporate the training for new
contraceptive methods, as appropriate materials were prepared. Eventually, training at the
national level will become part of the program of the National Primary Health Care Management
Center.
Management Strengthening
26.    Despite the progress that has already been made in family planning, the institutional
structure for managing the program is just developing and is still quite weak. This subcomponent
would address the need for stronger management through appropriate training (additional to the
training involving new contraceptive methods) for the expanding staff at central and provincial
levels. Essential facilities and equipment and technical assistance would also be provided.
Organizational structure
27.    Although not delivering services directly, the Population and Family Planning Department
is supposed to oversee the design and delivery of services, being responsible for supervision,



-46-
monitoring and evaluation, planning and management, information-education-communication,
data collection and research, training and liaison. To carry out these functions adequately, the
department would expand from its present, largely ad hoc, size of about a dozen technical staff to
a technical staff of 40, plus 10 or more support staff. The staff would be divided into five units,
dealing with family planning methods, cross-sectoral promotion of family planning,
organizational liaison, sociocultural aspects and demography (Figure D.2). This structure has
been designed by MOHME and is being considered within the government.
Figure D.2. Proposed structure of the Population
and Family Planning Department, MOHME
Director
Administrative    _                   _             Technical
committee     r                                   committee
[Deputy for family  |                               Deputy for demog-1
planning affairs                                raphy and sociocul-
tural aspects
A_ I  I 1 
Family        Cross-sectoral      Organi-                   Socio-      Demography
planning    promotion of family    zational                 cultural
methods          planning          liaison                  aspects
..................I.............  .................. .............................   .................. .............    .  .  .  .     .   .  .  .  ............................... ..........  .__...__... ...............................
1 Responsible    1 Responsible expert  1 Reponsible        1 Responsible  1 Responible
expert       1 5 Experts          exprt                    expert         export
3 Experts     1 Technician         4 Expert                2 Experts      2 Experts
1 Technician                       1 Technicidn            1 Technician   1 Technician
28.    A plan is also being developed to expand the family planning staff at the provincial level
from one person to a separate unit with 5-12 staff. These units would have an identity separate
from the maternal and child health units with which they are now integrated. All provincial
offices are to have a physician as director for population and family planning, a responsible
expert for population and family planning, a responsible expert for communications and
intersectoral coordination and two assistants for family health. Depending on the number of cities
in a province, the unit may have in addition up to four experts in health and family planning, an
expert in population and up to two more assistants for family health.
29.    With its current small staff, the Population and Family Planning Department does carry
out many of the functions essential to managing a family planning program that operates through
the primary health care network. Contraceptive needs are estimated, commodities are ordered and
imported as needed, supplies are provided to the field, some field visits take place to verify
logistics and services, training workshops are conducted, advertisements and films are produced
in cooperation with other departments, consumption data is collated, KAP surveys completed and
some demographic estimates and projections are made. Staff expansion is aimed at handling these
functions more effectively and producing not only a larger but a better quality program, which
depends on adding staff with greater expertise and training and adequate equipment.



-47-
Training
30.   Training under the project would focus on three areas: management and planning,
information-education-communication (IEC) and evaluation and research. Brief overseas study
tours would also be provided to give staff exposure to practices in other family planning
programs. As with the training for new contraceptive methods, training under this subcomponent
will involve different levels, with much of the training for the Population and Family Planning
Department staff being done overseas. (Staff would then communicate what they learned in
further training sessions for provincial and district staff). Table D.5 provides the training plan.
The focus is on the higher levels of the system: the central office, the provincial offices and the
district offices, to a very limited degree. It is expected that relevant lessons from this training
would be incorporated into the general training received by health workers at lower levels.
31.   The objective of the training in management and planning would be to develop managers'
capacity to identify problems, analyze situations and develop and implement solutions that
strengthen the program. Some capacity for strategic planning does exist. This would be
strengthened and the use of contraceptive user data in evaluating, planning and targeting,
emphasized. Techniques for assessing and improving program quality would also be introduced.
Possible sites for this training have not been identified but could include the Center for
Population Planning at the University of Michigan and the School of Public Health at Johns
Hopkins University.
32.   On the assumption that teams and not just individuals need to be trained in management,
the overseas training for individuals would be supplemented with four months of technical
assistance (in years two to four), to analyze the management system and to provide on-site group
training in strategic management. The objective of the training in information-education-
communication is to provide the capacity not only to design materials but also to plan and
implement communication campaigns. An emphasis on testing materials and assessing their
impact would be a key part of this training. This may involve a formal short course or learning
by apprenticeship in a sophisticated development communications office. Other factors needed for
a successful communications campaign are considered under the next subcomponent.
33.   The objective of the training in evaluation and research is to allow the department, and
the provincial offices to a lesser extent, to conduct their own assessments of progress and to
evaluate alternative program approaches. The need for evaluation and research is discussed under
the last subcomponent. The department has limited current capacity for such work, relying on
outside help for surveys and failing to conduct any evaluations of operational approaches.
Training in operations research, survey research, and demography needs to be covered. Some
training in operations research or health systems research, in particular, will be provided to
university researchers to enhance the pool of expertise on which PFP can draw. A number of
possible centers for training in family planning surveys and analysis and demography exist
overseas, but appropriate training in operations research could be more difficult to arrange.



-48-
Table D.5: Training plan for Expanded Population and Family Planning (PFP)
Department and Provincial Health Offices Staff, MOHME, 1993-97
Topics
Staff to be trained         No.            covered          Penod           Lwel           Dates
PFP management team                6       Management,           3 months        Oversea       1993-96
planning, budgeting,
evaluation
PFP IEC staff                      4       IEC and market        3 months        Oversea        1993-96
research
PFP research and demographic       5       Operations research,   3 months       Overse         1993-96
staff                                      evaluation and statis-
tics
PFP experts in demography and      3       M.A./M.S.             2 years         Overses        1993-96
public health
PFP experts in demography and      2       Ph.D.                 3 yea           Overseas       1994-96
family planning research
PFP experts in various fields      6       Study and observation  2 weeks        Over_e         1993-97
tours to other pro-
grams
University researchers             10      Operations research    1 month        Overses        1993-96
or health systems
research
Provincial and district manage-  2 each from  Management,        2 weeks   National (by PFP    1994-95
ment staff                    24 provinces evaluation, and                  and University
planning                         staff)
Provincial IEC staff          3 each from  IEC                   2 weeks   National (by PFP,   1994
24 provinces                                 Health Education,
and University
sta)
Provincial evaluation and     2 each from   Evaluation and       2 weeks   National (by PFP    1995
research staff                24 provinces research                         and University
sta)
Provincial experts in contra-      36      Study tours           2 weeks         Oversea"       1994-97
ceptive methods, demography,
public health, communications,
logistics, research
'Overseas training is for the training of trainers, who will subsequently pass on what they learn to others.
Facilities and equipment
34.    Various categories of essential equipment for the expanded staff at both the central and
the provincial levels would be provided under the project:
*   Office furniture for the incremental staff in the central and in provincial offices
*   Vehicles, to facilitate field visits-A  for the central office and 2 per province
*   Equipment for training and information-education-communication purposes for the central
and provincial offices, including overhead, opac and slide projectors and televisions and
videocassette recorders



49-
Equipment for evaluation and research for the central and provincial offices, particularly
computers and printers, with modems to permit communication and the necessary
software
The provision of office space for the expanded staff will be the responsibility of MOHME.
Information-Education-Communication campaigns
35.   Skills in information-education-communication (IEC), to be acquired through training
under the previous subcomponent, are to be applied in this subcomponent in the design and
conduct of campaigns to promote family planning. With the high-level policy commitment to
family planning, much activity in this area already takes place. At the interpersonal level,
Behvarz are reportedly active in motivating households and in following up on users. At the
policy level, high-level seminars on population have been held, most recently in Tehran on World
Population Day 1992. On the same day, more than a 100 smaller seminars were also held
throughout the country. At the level of the mass media, shots promoting family planning are
shown before cinema screenings. Two popular films are in preparation with a family planning
theme (and a third with an AIDS theme). Television and radio spots on family planning have
aired, and discussion shows and game shows have involved family planning. Articles have run in
popular, as well as in religious, magazines. Signboards carry family planning messages on city
sidewalks and at the International Trade Fair. In education, family planning is part of health
worker training materials and is in the curriculum from high schools (where population, but not
sex, education is taught) to medical schools.
36.   Expanding this effort, particularly to rural areas, and finding the most productive
directions for it, would be the focus of this subcomponent, which would cover:
* The production of additional materials, including books, booklets, pamphlets, posters,
tapes, and films
* The advertising costs to allow for the use of appropriate media
* The sponsorship of seminars and workshops among influential groups
* The evaluation of IEC impact and consumer reactions to contraception.
Interpersonal IEC is not covered under this subcomponent; it would continue to be part of the
regular training of all health workers with responsibilities in this area.
37.   Some materials, such as posters, may be produced by family planning staff. Other
materials will be contracted out, with the assistance, when necessary of the Health Education
Department, or produced on request by the Ministry of Culture. Educational materials for health
workers would be a particular focus in the first year of the project, to facilitate training and the
use of the new contraceptive methods. Advertising costs would be limited mainly to television
and billboards since radio time and magazine space are currently available to MOHME without
charge.
38.   Five seminars or workshops with a public relations objective (separate from the training
workshops) are to be held under the project. These would be targeted at different influential
groups, to be identified in the course of the project. These might include private doctors, in order
to elicit their cooperation and defuse any possible opposition to the new contraceptive methods.
Another possible group might be journalists, to provide them with information that they might
incorporate in news and feature reports. A third possible group is parliamentarians, to ensure
better understanding and continued support for the program. A fourth possibility is the research



-50-
community, for whom a scientific seminar may be held to present results from the surveys to be
cjnducted under the following subcomponent as well as relevant work by other researchers.
39.   The evaluation of IEC activity would be an important aspect of this subcomponent.
Modern advertising relies heavily on the pretesting of materials and market research. This
orientation is absent so far in IEC and health education work. It could make a difference in such
areas as the choice of media and the choice of message and, certainly, in impact. For instance,
awareness of and approval for family planning already appear fairly widespread in the society.
Market research might determine what specific groups still need this message or what new
messages--such as where to obtain contraceptives--are worth attention. Evaluation would be
supported by the project through four small studies in different years, using focus groups, small
surveys, tracking studies, or other methodologies to look at the impact of materials and
advertising and to assess consumer reactions to the family planning program. Technical assistance
would be provided to ensure that the proper questions were asked and the appropriate
methodology applied.
Evaluation and Research
40.   Several factors point to a critical need for evaluation and research capacity in the family
planning program: the inconsistencies among contraceptive prevalence and fertility estimates,
which complicate planning; the likely coming transition from a comfortable period for the
program, in which expansion was based on pent-up demand, to a period when a better
understanding of various obstacles will be essential; the need to assess the many new elements
being added by the project; and the limited capacity of PFP to analyze and carefully interpret
data.
41.   A previous subcomponent covered training in evaluation and research for the expanded
central and provincial staffs. This subcomponent covers specific studies that should be done as
part of the project by these staff and additional technical assistance to ensure the quality of the
product. The studies to be supported under the project would include:
*  Two surveys comparable to the Demographic and Health Surveys, with technical support
from the Demographic and Health Surveys itself or from some comparable source, as
well as a survey of knowledge, attitudes, and practice (KAP) in family planning to be
conducted in between these two
*  About 10 pieces of operations research (generally 2 a year) to assess the effects of
particular aspects of the family planning program
42.   The surveys are to be conducted in the first and fifth years of the project, and should
provide definitive information about fertility and family planning, as well as about certain child
health topics. The initial survey would provide critical planning data and allow the reestimation
of the contraceptive requirements described earlier. The second survey would assess progress and
help determine whether goals were being met. Technical assistance would be critical for this
activity, so that surveys measure up fully to international standards. However, the infrastructure
and field teams for the surveys would closely parallel those used for preceding KAP surveys. The



-51-
KAP survey to be conducted in the middle of the project would resemble the earlier surveys, but
should be slightly more elaborate and systematic.
43.   The operations research work is meant to assess issues of particular importance for
program policy. For instance, one piece of operations research would be on the mobile teams for
clinical methods. An experimental or quasi-experimental design would be used to determine
whether these teams increase prevalence, whether they are relatively cost-effective and whether
their impact on other services is positive or negative. This evaluation study would be used to
decide whether to terminate or expand the experiment. Other pieces of research might address
whether new methods are being introduced properly, whether training in new methods is
adequate and leads to proper performance, whether the client flow in urban health centers is
properly handled, what the patterns of and reasons for discontinuation of different methods are
and what the relative cost-effectiveness is of different approaches to urban service delivery. One
particular piece of operations research that would be important toward the end of the project is an
assessment of the private sector in family planning, to determine how to improve the quality of
their services and whether they can take an additional load off the public sector. Some of the
operations research may be conducted by trained staff. Other pieces of research may be
conducted by or in collaboration with university-based researchers, under contract with the
Population and Family Planning Department, some of whom would have been trained under a
preceding project subcomponent. Technical assistance in operations research would be provided
for a total of about three months over the life of the project.
44.   To supervise these evaluation and research activities, an Evaluation Committee would be
constituted by supplementing the PFP Technical Committee with two local social science
researchers and two internationally recognized family planning consultants. Fees and travel for
the latter are funded under the project. This committee would meet at least twice a year to advise
the director of the Population and Family Planning Department about evaluation and research
issues, help identify important topics, screen proposals, provide guidance about ongoing
evaluations, assess the quality of completed work, and recommend steps to take in applying
research results to current problems.
45.   In addition to the studies, this subcomponent would address the question of the
institutional structure for family planning evaluation and research. In the first year of the project,
the project would support an international consultant for four months to prepare a report on the
need, potential and design for a Human Reproduction Center. Such a center might provide a
stable institutional base for research of the type covered by this subcomponent, as well as for
additional research in demography and contraceptive methods. It might also serve some critical
training functions. The report is to consider whether such a center is justified; if so, whether the
human and other resources exist to make it an effective institution; and if they do, what plan
should be followed in developing a center; what design is appropriate; and what the likely costs
would be.



-52-
ANNEX E
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING
SUMMARY COST TABLES
Table E.1: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Rials ('000)
Base Costs                                                 Total
1993/94     1994/95      1995/96      1996/97      1997/98     1998/99        Rials         USS
A. Service Delivery
1. Primary Health Care Network    45429410.6  60229495.3  71423971.7  53369771.1  35198984.8  32095136.6  302829000.0          208800.0
2. Health Manag. Development        1956065.5   2178706.6    936855.9    918120.7   1532161.4   1672161.4    9392000.0            6500.0
Subtotal                             47385476.1  62408201.9  72360827.5  54287891.8  36731146.2  33767297.9   31221000.0          215300.0
B. Family Planning Program
1. Contraceptive Options           9859092.6   4787588.3   3177650.3   3983112.3   5059584.8    384937.5   27897700.0            19200.0
2. Management Strengthening         3136057.1   1607680.8   1595080.8   1535230.8   1299130.8   1204580.4   10522600.0            7300.0
3. Inform. Educa. Communic.         2268214.0   2268214.0   2268214.0   2268214.0   2152314.0            0.0    11231400.0        7700.0
4. Evaluation and Research           656774.0    270879.0    349204.0    204204.0    556984.0        75984.0    2148300.0         1500.0
Subtotal                             15920137.7   8934362.0   7390149.1   7990761.0   9068013.6   1665501.9   51800000.0           35700.0
C. Heath Financing Study               199762.0    331918.0    128010.0           0.0          0.0         0.0      681500.0         050.0
D. Project Implement. Unit             553718.7    480980.8    480980.8    480980.8    480980.8    480980.8    2977200.0            2100.0
Total Baseline Costs                 64059094.5  72155462.7  80359967.4  62759633.6  46280140.6  35913780.6  367679400.0          253600.0
Physical Contingencies              4834052.4   6112913.2   4818122.0   2455938.5    503691.0          579.3   19152700.0        13200.0
Price Contingencies                 7925473.1  26712054.2  47347397.2  49688258.8  45073101.4  43116187.1  213283700.0           27200.0
Total Project Costs                  76818619.9  104980430.1  132525486.5  114903830.8  91856932.9  79030547.0  600115800.0       294000.0
Taxes                                     0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                   39912413.6  53643190.4  77082151.4  55354186.8  35321568.6  20846242.3  282159753.1          141418.1



-53-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
TABLE E.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rials                              us$
('000)                             ('000)
Foreign    Totdal
Local       Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Base
Cost
A. Service Delivery
1. Primary Heath Care Netw.    155440410.0  147388700.0   302829100.0  107200.0  101600.0 208800.0    48.7      82.4
2. Health Manag. Development   3663400.0   578200.0       9391600.0   2500.0   4000.0   6500.0         61.0      2.6
Sub-Total                      159103800.0  153116900.0   312220700.0  112500.6  106742.9 219243.5       48.2     84.9
B. Family Planning Program
1. Contraceptive Options       9172384.0  18079581.8    27251965.8   6539.5  12926.2  19465.7         66.3       7.5
2. Management Strengiening     6321469.2   4056291.3    10377760.5   4503.6   2909.1   7412.7          39.1      2.9
3. Infornu. Educa. Comnmunic.    11051570.0    173600.0    11225170.0   7894.0    124.0   8018.0        1.5      3.1
4. Evaluation and Research      1153881.0    960148.0     2114029.0    822.6    687.4   1510.0         45.4      0.6
Subttal                         27699304.2   2410070.0    51800000.0  19759.8  16646.6  36406.4          45.7     14.1
C. Health Financing Study          49010.0    610680.0       659690.0      34.9    436.3    471.2        92.6      0.2
D. Project Implement. Unit       2438595.0    520027.6      2958622.6   1737.5    375.8   2113.3         17.6      0.8
Total Baseline Costs           189290729.2  172237350.0   361528079.2  134032.8  124201.6 258234.3       48.1    100.0
Physical Contingencies         6757875.0  12394800.0    19152700.0   4827.1    8548.2  13375.2         63.9      5.2
Price Contingencies          121907490.0  91376000.8   213283700.0  13718.7   8668.4  22387.1          38.6     10.7
Total Project Costs            317956094.1  282159753.1   600115847.2  152578.5  141418.1  293996.6      48.1    115.9



-54.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING
TABLE E.3: SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
Tosb         C.cludi t ;iW.
1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   19971/98   1998/99   Totai
1. Inveatment Coa
a. Civil works                35387.2  48602.0   24815.   12710.7   0.05.3         0.0  121515.
b. Equipment                   2886.0    987.2  14627.0   7057.5   2425.3          5.4   27988.
c. Fumiut                      1766.5   1634.3   12643.6   7025.0   3580.3         0.0   26649.
d. Vehiche                     1967.7      0.0   6041.6   2685.6    921.6          0.0   11616.
a. Technia Aantun
1. Surveys FP                 275.1      31.4       0.0     0.08     303.7       35.5     650.8
2. Operac Rl. & EvahL FP       57.2      42.1      43.1      45.5     27.8       28.S     243.5
3. Lacal Survey FP              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
4. Lol Operatiom Re. FP       105.5    108.5    222.0    114.7    118.4           0.0     669.1
5. Advering FP                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
6. Human Reprod. ProposalFP    35.9      18.5       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      54.4
7. Nat'l Pri. HeaL C. Mg. C.  101.9      44.0      45.0      46.4     48.0      168.2    453.
S. Health MaS                  50.3      91.8      93.9      96.8     100.2     103.8     536.
9. Internt. Conultant         253.7    291.3    223.0        68.5      0.0        0.0     836.5
10. Loca Comulant               63.7      72.1      71.3     64.2       0.0       0.0      271.3
11. Report Writing               2.1       6.5      2.2       0.0       0.0       0.0       10.8
12. Monitor. & Evalu. Sudy       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                        945.6    706.3    700.5    435.0    603.1        336.3    3726.8
F. Taining
1. Local Trainmg FP            39.7     40.8       41.8      43.1     44.6        0.0     210.
2. PhyaicianTrainigFP         316.9       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0     316.
3. Family Healtb Workes FP   2955.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0    2955.
4. Midwives FP                886.6       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0     886.
5. Behvam FP                   0.0    1953.4        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0    1953.
6. Centrl Saff FP              13.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      13.2
7. Overse  Training FP        279.6    224.0    219.6    179.0        32.7        0.0     934.
S. Study Toum FP                0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
9. Fellowsip FP                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
10. N1al Pri. HceLC.MUC.         0.0       0.0      0.0    342.7    707.8       733.5    1783.
11. Heabh MIS                   81.9     101.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      182.
Subtol                         4573.0   2319.3    261.3    564.8    785.0        733.5    9236.
Total loveo Comt                                 47526.0  54249.0  59089.3  30478.7   8315.2    1075.1  200733.
II. Rewurrt Coa
A. Icremental Per,onel
1. Supervision                587.7    1208.6    927.1    319.2        0.0        0.0    3042.
2. Salauia                      0.0       0.0    372.0   8664.7  13224.1   15173.4   37434.
3. Cental Office FP            89.6      92.1      94.2      97.3    100.5      104.2    578.
4. Centrl nd ProvinceaFP      518.3    532.9    545.1    563.0    581.4         602.5    3343.
5. NPMC                        0.0       0.0       0.0      92.0      190.0     196.9    478.
6. FlU Staff                  258.2    265.5    271.6    280.5    289.7         300.2    1665.
Subtoal                        1453.8   2099.1   2210.0  10016.7  14385.8   16377.3   46542.6
B. Contacptive
1. Minipilk                     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0
2. IUD Copper T3OMT3SOA0      118.6    143.7    170.4    209.2    253.8           0.0    895.7
3. Injectable                  32.1     114.3    217.6    344.6    490.6          0.0    1199.1
4. Norplat                    401.0    549.5    711.1    940.7   1164.1           0.0    3836.
5. Condom                      85.5    181.6    288.8    407.0    550.2           0.0    1513.
6. Omas                       185.0    419.6    713.1    1079.7   1550.1          0.0    3947.
Subtotal                        8 t22.2   1408.8   2170.9   2981.3   4008.9        0.0   11392.1
C. Inct. Oprtie & Main
1. FacilL. Equip. & SUpp.     228.4    282.2    406.9   6254.0   9510.4   10881.6   27563.
2. Vehicbe O&M                114.7    540.5   1338.0   1785.7   1986.0    2057.7   7822.q
Subtotal                       343.0    822.7   1745.0   8039.7  11496.4   12939.3  35386.1
Total maCUrt co                                   2619.0   4330.6   6125.9  21037.7  29891.1   29316.6  93320.
Tolprotoo.h                                      50144.9  58579.6  65215.2  51516.4  38206.3   30391.7  294054.
vale  scad by 1000.0



-55-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
TABLE E.4: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
RIALS (00)                         usS (l0oo
L1A       PFe-ign      Total     Ical       Foriss    ToI        S            S
Poreig       Toal
Exhage    Baa Con
1. Inv_aunast Cast
A. Civil Work.                67578750.0  82596200.0 150175000.0    46600.0    5778.4 103600.0       54.1         40.B
B. Equipmas                         0.0  33005410.3  33005410.3        0.0    23575.3 23575.3       100.0          9.1
C. Furniwe                    34395440.0        0.0  34395440.0    24568.2        0.0 24568.2         0.0          9.5
D. Vehicle                          0.0  15125310.3  15125310.3        0.0    10603.1  1003.1       100.0          4.2
E Technical Asaistance
1. Surveys                        0.0    840000.0    14000.0         0.0      600.0   6w0.0       100.0          0.2
2. Opaiom Rea. & Evah. PP     254156.0    61348.0   315504.0      10.3        45.1   225.4        19.4          0.1
3. Local Survey PP                0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0           0.0
4. Local Opeaion Rl. PP       870000.0        0.0    670000.0       621.4       0.0   621.4         0.0           0.0
5. AdverchingPP                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0           0.0
6. Human Reprod. Propoal PP    15225.0    51C00.0    74025.0        10.6       42.3    52.9        79.4           0.0
7. Nat'lPri. Heel. C. M4ag.C      0.0    574000.0   574000.0         0.0      410.0   410.0       100.0           0.2
S. Hea  MIS                       0.0    682360.0   682360.0         0.0      487.4   487.4       100.2           0.2
9. 1temat Cosuta                 0.0   1115800.0  1115580.0         0.0      797.0   797.0       100.0           0.3
10. L1cal Conutn              315150.0         0.0    358150.0      255.8        0.0   255.8         0.0          0.1
11. Repoet Writing              14500.0        0.0     14500.0       10.4        0.0    10.4         0.0          0.0
12. Monitor & EvakL Stby           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0          0.0
Subtot a                         1512031.0  3451300.0  4963300.0       1078.5    2381.6  3460.2        68.1           1.3
F. Training
1. Local Taining PP           272132.0        0.0    212132.0      194.9        0.0   194.9         0.0          0.1
2. Phyician TrainigPP         435435.0        0.0   435435.0       311.0        0.0   311.0         0.0           0.1
3. Family Healh Work..PP     4060000.0        0.0   4060000.0      2900.0       0.0  2900.0         0.0           1.1
4. Midwivc FP                1218000.0        0.0   121100.0        870.0       0.0   870.0         0.0           0.3
5. Behvarz PP                26100D0.0        0.0   2610000.0      1864.3       0.0  1864.3         0.0           0.7
6. Central Staff PP            18125.0        0.0     18125.0       12.9        0.0    12.9         0.0           0.0
7. OvereasTmaPingPP               0.0   12t1200.0  12S1200.0         0.0       813.6   813.6      100.0           0.3
S. Sudy Tours PP                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0           0.0
9. FellowsbipaFP                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0           0.0
10. Noel Pri. Heal.C. MsLC.   2166750.0        0.0   2166750.0     1547.7        0.0  1547.0         0.0          0.6
11. Healh MIS                 247500.0         0.0    247500.0      176.8        0.0   176.8         0.0          0.1
Sua                             11021642.0  1281200.0  12309900.0     7877.6       83.6  8761.2        10.1           3.4
Total InveanmtCasa             114514873.0 137178500.0 251693300.0    79000.0    94600.0 173600.0      s4.5          68.3
II. Recurrnt Costa
A. Incrmeta Peracnal
1. Supervalon                4037040.0        0.0   4037040.0     2113.6        0.0  2833.6         0.0           1.1
2. Salaric                  45568000.0        0.0  45568000.0    32548.6        0.0 32548.6         0.0          12.6
3. Central Office FP          738630.0        0.0    738630.0       527.6       0.0   527.6         0.0           0.2
4. Central ad PrvuOV;FP      4272048.0        0.0   4272048.0      3051.5       0.0  3051.5         0.0           1.2
5. NPMC                       5S1750.0      0.097    551750.0       415.5       0.0   415.5         0.0           0.2
6. PlU Stf                   2121395.0        0.0   2121395.0      1520.3       0.0  1520.3         0.0           0.6
Subtotal                        57325863.0        0.0  M2586.0    39500.0           0.0 39500.0         0.0          15.9
B. Contraptives
1. Minipill                       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0           0.0
2. IUD Copper T3tO/T30A            0.0   1098403.3  1098403.3        0.0       714.6   784.6      100.0           0.3
3. Inetablea                      0.0   1445977.9  1445977.9         0.0      1032.8  1032.8      100.0           0.4
4. NorpIant                        0.0   4688209.9  4688209.9        0.0      3348.7  3348.7      100.0           1.3
5. CoedOm                         0.0   1135113.4  1135113.4         0.0      1310.8  1310.8      100.0           0.5
6. Oral                           0.0   4773694.9  4773694.9         0.0      3409.8  3409.8      100.0           1.3
Subtotal                              0.0  14335700.0  14335000.0        0.0      988.7  9886.7       100.0           3.1
C. bnrn Opesdon & MLt
1. FaciliL.Equlp. & SmV.     13466843.2  2017906.9  33645907.1     9420.2    14612.6 24032.8        60.0          9.3
2. Vehicle OM                398360.0  5768714.5  9751874.5       2716.2    4179.4  6965.6         59.2          2.7
Subtotal                        17450003.2  2687450.0  44324500.0    12206.4    1850.0 30998.4         59.8          12.0
Totvl RecurrentCoda             74775866.2  41210200.0 115986100.0    51600.0    28671.7 8000.0        35.5          31.7
Totdl Baseline Co              189290729.2 172237350.0 361528079.2   134032.8   124201.6 258234.3      48.1         10o.
Pryaic Coanm                   6757875.0  12394800.0  19152700.0     4827.1      48.2  13375.2       63.9           5.2
Prica C       |ogmalsa       121907490.0  91376200.0 21328700.0    17400.0    980.o 2m0.0            36.2          10.7
Total Projac Coa               317956074.1 282159753.1 600115S47.2   152M.5   14141.1294000.0          4.1.         115.9



-56-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING
TABLE E.5: PROJECT COMPONENIS BY YEAR
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES USS ('Q00)
1993/94    1994/95     1995/96   1996/97   1997/98      1998/99   Total
A. Service Delivery
1. Primary Health Care Netw.    36261.0      49458.3   58235.5   43957.0    28965.2   27159.8   244036.9
2. Health Msnag. Development     1535.8       1758.5     751.6     725.4      12S1.2    1415.0      7437.6
Subtotal                          37796.9      51216.9  58987.1   44682.4    30216.4   28574.8   251474.5
B. Family Planning Program
1. Contaceptive Options          7327.4       3650.3    2536.5    3285.3      4323.2      325.7    2144.5
2. Management Strengthening      2338.7       1203.2    1221.2    1213.1       1060.9    1019.4     8056.5
3. Informa. Educa. Communic.     1651.0       1697.6    1736.4    1793.4      1757.6        0.0     8636.0
4. Evaluation and Research        478.0        202.7     267.3      161.4       454.9      64.3     1628.7
Subtotal                          11795.0       6753.9    5761.4    6453.4       7596.6    1409.4    39769.6
B. Health Financing Study           145.4        248.4      98.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      491.8
C. Project Implement. Unit          407.7        360.4     368.7      380.7       393.3     407.5     2318.2
Total Projects Costs              5014.9       58579.6   65215.2   51516.4    38206.3   30391.7   294054.2



-57-
ANNEX F
PROJECT ACnION PLAN
I. ACTIONS CONFIRMED DURING LOAN NEGOTIATIONS (Februam 1993)
1.    MOHME will identify and appoint additional full-time PIU staff at the Central level, including at least three
procurement and two disbursement officers, another engineer, one information technology specialist, and three
support staff. Office space will be located and the necessary equipment and supplies will be provided so that the
PIU could become fully operational by June 1993. Key PIU staff have been appointed and the PIU has been
formally established within MOHME as an administrative unit authorized to carry out and coordinate all project
implementation functions as described in detail in Annex I (Terms of Reference of the Project Implementation Unit)
of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
2.    To support the recently enacted national medical insurance scheme, MOHME will undertake a study on
health care financing, the findings of which will be integrated as part of the Government's overall sector strategy.
The study will be conducted in accordance with the terms of reference outlined in Annex K (Terms of Reference of
the Health Care Financing Study) of the SAR. The study will be completed by December 1994, thereafter
provided to and discussed with the Bank, and subsequently implemented takdng the Bank's comments into account.
3.    MOHME will carry out the various training prograns and studies, that have been agreed upon with the
Bank under the Family Planning Component, in the time frame according to the terms of reference outlined in
Annex D (The National Family Planning Program), and Annex J (Technical Assistance Under the Family Planning
Prograrn) of the SAR. The studies on local production of contraceptives and the proposed Human Reproduction
Center will be completed by June 1995, upon completion provided to and discussed with the Bank, and
subsequently implemented taking the Bank's comments into account. MOHME will prepare annual training plans
and provide them to the Bank for review.
4.    MOHME will augment the existing Technical Committee of the Family Planning Program with social
science and other expertise, giving it the responsibility to serve as an Evaluation Committee. This will be achieved
according to the description of functions specified for this Committee in Annex D of the SAR. The Committee will
be fully functional by September 1993.
5.    MOHME will expand the staffing and functions of the Population and Family Planning Department
according to the organizational structure described in Annex D of the SAR. Staffing will be completed by
December 1993.
6.    MOHME will implement a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system which includes conducting various
studies as described above, and undertaking regular surveys to monitor the impact of project activities on key
health and demographic indicators. The M&E system is described in Annex H (Project Monitoring and Evaluation
System) of the SAR. In addition, MOHME will facilitate and cooperate in the supervision plan as described in
Annex G of the SAR.
7.    In order to further the objectives of the project, MOHME will pursue, under its proposed programs, the
augmentation of health services provided under the project through establishing the related and complementary
network of health houses and mobile facilities as described in Annex C of the SAR.
8.    MOHME will retain consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist with
procurement under the project. The procurement functions under the project are described in Annex I of the SAR.



58
II. INITIAL ACTIONS NEEDED FOR PROIECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
9.    Identify and start recruiting additional personnel to implement the project at the Provincial and District
levels (e.g., engineers and technicians). Inform the Bank of progress by June 1993.
Establishment of RHCs
10.   Initiate acquisition of all lands required for the new RHCs. Identify locations where site acquisition is a
problem and suggest alternative locations. Initiate site analysis including, soil tests, site surveys, access points, etc.
Inform the Bank of progress by October 1993.
11.   Initiate a survey on the availability of building materials in the concerned provinces. Provide the Bank with
preliminary results of the survey by July 1993.
12.   Initiate the preparation of a detailed recruitment and training plan for the needed health personnel required
to staff the new RHCs to be established under the Project, and to complement current staff at existing RHCs to be
replaced under the Project (including staff for the maternity facilities). Provide a draft training plan to the Bank by
July 1993.
13.   Finalize the plans for the development of outreach services, including the establishment of health houses
and mobile facilities, in areas where new RHCs are to be established. Estimate the investment and recurrent costs
involved. Provide a draft of the above to the Bank by December 1993, and take into consideration Bank comments
before implementation.
National Primara Health Care Manafement Center (NPMC)
14.   Identify the site for the NPMC and initiate the land acquisition process. Inform the Bank of progress by
May 1993.
15.   Finalize the institutional setup of NPMC, including the administrative and managerial arrangements with
respect to its daily operations. Provide the Bank with a description of the approved setup by September 1993.
The National Family Planning Program
16.   Provide a list (as complete as possible) of the staff who will occupy key positions in the expanded
department down to the level of responsible experts and identify appropriate office space needed for the expansion.
Inform the Bank of progress by May 1993.
17.   Work out and provide the Bank by June 1993 a detailed schedule for all training activities to be conducted
in the first year of the project.
18.   Work out and provide the Bank by June 1993 a detailed schedule for other activities to be conducted in the
first year (contraceptive imports, purchase of equipment, conduct of surveys and evaluation studies, etc.) and assign
staff to be responsible for each activity.
Health Care Financing Stdy
19.   Finalize the composition of the steering committee for the study, in collaboration with the relevant
agencies, and establish it formally by June 1993.
_   _                    _                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -- - - -



59
m. PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
20.     Ihe following procurement plan and implementation schedules give the projected timetable for procurement
and for various activities under the project components.
PROJECT ACTION PLAN
IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Table F.1: Project Procurement Plan
UB 0 N   mt . WY   QWY"  WY"                  Q " .
P".. C __ ofiSml    Coetraaa  Mi34d  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234
A. CIVIL WORKS                       73.0     14    ICE
4S.      62    LCB
Inviim toWdm                                             1 34
Opebids                                                  1 34
Awah ooauaa                                              24   1
Cc _atacam                                                34  1234  1234  1234 i
B. M?EICAL 1QtNPM T                  2S.       4      U.B
nva  to bld                                              2
Op bids                                                 2
Award coma                                               3
sign combs"                                                    1
DSHV-Y                                 I               1             11234  1234  1234
C. VEECIU                            11.       4     ICB
lofladoin*a to bidu                                      2
open" b     i                                            2
Opmb.                                                    2
Awai omaat                                                3
sipn eoauma                                                4
Deivmy                                                     4         12    12   12
D. SPARE PARTS AND SUWIZS            19.       5      DC
2.      10      Is
Awid ocact                                                            1
Sipn co.b                                                             2
Doelvay                                                                34  1234  1234  1234
E. FURNIIURE AND LOCAL SUPYLS        26.       1    NBE
hvAtir to b                                              2
Openbid                                                  2
Amwd oa.ima                                               3
Sip cook"                                                      1
Dediv-y                                                                 4  1234  1234
F. CONTRAC71VU                       2.6       4      LUE
3.8      1      DC
Isyibdam to Iie                                                1      1     1    1
O_mbib                                    .                                  
Awid oa.u                                                2     2      2     2    2
D*Uvay                                                   3      3      3     3    3
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              3.       14 Cam.   L       I      I    I      I     I
L TRA4NG                              9.2      1 C.   1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234
- 1          I-       -     - -: m12m
Now Numbn. n d chiym for sub thos yoeasmis doe quaza for arcb schvity. Thia ph. darnot h.bde hasel recunmt
coe.
NEI: Nm-Book Fma_d.



60
PROJECT ACTION PLAN
IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Table F.2: Implementation Schedule for the Service Delivery Component
FW3       FYN4       F         FY6       FYV7       Fyn       Fl"
Qtr       Qtr        Qtr       Qtr       Qtr        Qtr       Qtr
Projed C__ap &moa                                  1234       1234      1234       1234      1234      1234       1234
GENERAL
App-                                                3
Nea4a.                                              3
Lamn apreine                                        3
Law effeclivu                                        4
PU                                                  34      1234       1234       1234      1234      1234      1234
PHC NErWORK
Lmdacqukia                                          34      12
Co<naction Dacumla                                  34      12
Bidding                                             4       12
Civi wort. impe                       ....   34                        1234       1234      12
Sup qveaco                                                    34       1234       1234      12
R-uAwdE"ip_entinstallsdion                                                       1234       1234      1234
Vehicle purd_ce                                               34                   34        34        34
Staff reuirnn                                                                               1234      1234      1234
HEALTH MANAGE4MIT DEVELOPMET
l.NPMC
LmId aqkkioo                                        4
Coaidoma                                            34
Bidding                                             4        12
Civil works mpleamtioa                                        34       1234       1234
Supervioi                                                     34       1234       1234
_u          11iaW       i                                                         1234
Vebicke putd_e                                                                    1234
Tecical auobace                                                       12         12        12        12        12
2. HEALTH MIS
Cowqu_- & equpn-t                                           1234
Taming                                                                 1234
Tecuica Asalace                                                        1234       1234      1234      1234      1234
Nose: Numb_m . dke cobao  for eba  tlca yoi r  ihdica dkte qinu   for eacb acivty.



61
PROJECT ACTION PLAN
IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Table F.3: Implementation Schedule for the Family Planning
Component
Acninty                                              FY4   FY95   FM6   FM97  FMY8  FY99
Contracpwve Options
Contraceptive imports                                  x       x      x       x      x
Minilaparotomy and laparocopy lits                     x
Equipment operation and maintenance                  x      x       x       x      x       x
Local production study                                         x
Vehicle operation and maintenance                    x      x       x       x      x       x
Training physicians and central staff                  x
Technical assistance                                 x
Training midwives, family health workers               x
Training Behvarz                                               x
Mobile vans                                            x
Management Strengthening
Training for central staff                             x       x      x       x
Technical assistance                                           x      x       x
Training for provincial staff                                  x      x       x      x
Study tours, central and provincial staff              x       x      x       x      x
Facilities, equipment, and vehicles                    x
Operation and maintenance                              x       x      x       x      x       x
Informaon-Edcation-Commwuication
Materials production and advertising                   x       x      x       x      x
Seminars and reports                                   x       x      x       x      x
Evaluation studies                                             x      x       x      x
Technical assistance                                           x      x       x
Evalsuation and Research
Demographic and health surveys                         x                             x
Technical assistance                                   x                             x
KAP survey                                                            x
Operations research                                    x       x      x       x      x
Technical asistance                                    x       x      x       x
Evaluation committee meetings                          x       x      x       x      x       x
Proposal for Human Reproduction Center                 x       x
Technical assistance                                   x       x



62
ANNEX
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Supenision Plan for the Service Delivery Component
For the health component, two supervision missions are planned per year (two weeks each), including in 1993.
For each two-week mission in the field there is an average of three weeks at headquarters for the purpose of mission
preparation and follow-up activities.
Table G.1: Supervision Plan for the Service Delivery Component
Year                       Expertl3elresponsiblilty             weeks (field + office)
1993 #1         - Tak Mager                                             2 + 4
(July)         - Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
1993 #2         - Task Manager or alternae                              2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                            2 + 3
- Equipment Expert                                      2 + 2
1994 #1         - Task Manager or alternate                             2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
- Architect                                             0 + 2
1994 $2         - Task Manager or Alternate                             2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
1995 #1         - Task Manager or alternate                             2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
- Architect                                            2 + 2
1995_2          - Task Manager or altemate                              2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                            2 + 3
1996 $1         - Tak Manager or alterate                               2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
- Architect                                            2 + 2
1996 #2         - Tak Manager or alternate                              2 + 4
- Implementation Speci lid                              2 + 3
- Equipment Expert                                      2 + 2
1997 #1         - Tak Manager or alterna                                2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                             2 + 3
1997 $2         - T"k Mnager or altemrte                                2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
- Architect                                             2 + 2
1998 #1         - Tak Manager or alternate                              2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Hedth Specialist                               2 + 3
- Architect                                             2 + 2
1998 12         - Tak Manager or alternate                              2 + 4
- Implementation Specialist                             2 + 3
- Public Health Specialist                              2 + 3
- Architet                                              2 + 2
The health missions would be combined, to the extent possible, with the family planning missions. If
necessary, additional missions could be mounted to supervise separately the family planning component.



63
All health supervision missions would involve the task manager and an implementation specialist. Both could
work on the family planning component as well. The task manager could occasionally be replaced by an alternate.
An equipment expert would be involved two to three times during the duration of project implementation to
initially supervise the installation of the equipment provided and monitor the establishment of all repair and
maintenance arrangements and later to assess the utilization of equipment by health personnel.
Supervision Plan for the Family Planning Component
Supervision would generally involve verifying that proper procurement and disbursement procedures have been
followed, assessing progress using indicators in a separate table, and discussing and developing correction actions
where needed. Particular supervision missions may have specific objectives and may benefit from the participation of
specialists in particular areas, as illustrated in this table.
Table G.2: Supervision Plan for the Family Planning Component
Weeks:
Year                                                                                              Field +
(Mifsson)  Speafic Objectves                                       Eperise                        office
1993 (1)   a.      Review expansion of PFP and provincial FP offices  Family planning specialist  4 + 2
b.      Review imports of new contraceptives             familiar with management,
c.      Asseaa training plan and progress in training    logistics, trining
d       Discuss preparations for demographic and health
survey.
1993 (2)   a.      Observe Evaluation Committee meeting            Operations research specialist   2 + 1
b.      Discuss progress on Human Reproduction Center
report
1993 (3)   Consider results of demogrphic and health survey and    Family planning specialist     4 + 2
discuss development of strategic plan based on these data  (coordinate with survey TA)
1994 (1)   a.      Observe utilization of new methods and the      Family planning specialist     4 + 2
experiment with mobile vans                     with medical background
b.      Review progress in and effects of training       (coordinate with evaluation of
experiment)
1994 (2)   Review progress in TEC and IEC evaluation               IEC specialist (coordinate with  3 + 2
IEC TA)
1994 (3)   Review progress in institutional development and training  Management                  3 + 1
1995 (1)   a.      Review system data on contraceptive distribution  Family planning specialist   4 + 2
and users                                       with MIS background
b.      Asss performance of lower-level providers and
the adequacy of supplies and supervision
1995 (2)   a.      Assess progress in developing evaluation and    Operations researcher          2 + I
research capacity, including IEC evaluation
b.      Observe research workshop
C.      Discuss results of KAP survey
1996 (1)   a.      Review progress on all aspects of the project    Family planning specialist    3 + 2
component
b.      Discuss local production and privatization options
1996 (2)   a.      Asse  developed capacity for evaluation and      Family plnning rsearher       3 + 2
research, including IEC evaluation
b.      Discuss preparations for second demographic and
health survey
1997 (1)   Review impact of the project, using new demographic and  Family planning specialist    4 + 2
health survey, management information, and field         with research background
observation
1998 (1)   Complete asseument of the project and consider implications  Family planning specialist  4 + 2
for the national program



64
ANNEX H
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
1.    The performance of the two health components and the family planning component of the
project will be assessed through a system with some parallel and some shared elements. (a) Separate
tracking systems for health and for family planning elements will be instituted, in order to give a
periodic picture of implementation and immediate impact. (b) The broad ultimate impact on the health
and fertility of the population will be evaluated using data from the same demographic and health
surveys. These should give a general picture, by the time the project is completed, of what the health
system and the family planning program have accomplished. (c) Evaluations of intermediate impact will
rely on special studies in health and in family planning. These are meant to provide information about
whether the choice of specific interventions and the way they are handled made a difference.
2.    For tracking performance in family planning, the Population and Family Planning Department
will take primary responsibility. Particular process indicators have been established (see the indicators
table that follows), with progress on these to be assessed against the timetable for this component.
3.    For tracking performance in health, two systems that require more explanation are being
instituted. First, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is developing a plan to monitor the
construction, equipping, and staffing of rural health centers and of the National Primary Health Care
Management Center (NPMC). This plan will include standard indicators of physical completion
percentages and financial completion percentages for civil works and parallel indicators to cover
equipment and staffing. Schedules against which to assess progress on these indicators will be
developed at the national level as well as province by province. The PIU will also be responsible for
tracking progress on the health finance study. In collaboration with the Health Finance Committee, they
will establish milestones to be met with regard to the development of terms of reference, the hiring of
consultants, the submission of reports, and their consideration at designated levels of MOHME and
other agencies involved.
4.    Second, the health statistics now collected in the form of vital horoscopes-to be computerized
under the project into a Health Management Information database-will be used to provide snapshots of
the immediate impact of project components. The database will include geographically disaggregated
information on health service inputs, such as the opening of a rural health center in a particular area,
the stationing of an Iranian doctor in the center, the opening of particular health houses, and the
completion of particular types and levels of training by health staff. Periodic comparisons of health
indicators for areas that have and have not received particular inputs should provide a quick impression
of whether the project is making a contribution.
5.    For the eventual evaluation of the project as a whole, an independent system for generating data
should give a more detached view than service statistics. The project provides such a system in the
form of nationally representative demographic and health surveys conducted in the first and fifth years
of the project-thus bracketing the main project interventions-funded under the family planning
component. These surveys will provide much data for assessing fertility and contraceptive use levels
and analyzing the contributions to these of various household and community determinants, including
the project itself. The surveys will also provide important child health information, not only on
mortality levels but also on such specific complaints as diarrhea and respiratory infections and on
related health-service-seeking behavior. Survey questions or a module may be added as appropriate to
assess health service availability. Other sources of data, such as the Statistical Centre of Iran, will be
used as necessary.



65
6.    For different reasons, neither tracking nor national surveys will be able to answer specific
questions about the worth of the interventions covered by the project. For family planning, the impact
of specific interventions will be studied through a series of operations research activities described
under this project component. One activity, for instance, is meant specifically to assess the utility of the
mobile teams constituted with project support.
7.    For health, the approach to assessing specific interventions will rely on a panel study of health
status in areas differentially affected by the project. Basically the study will ask whether the
construction of rural health centers has made a difference, and if so how much. Areas of several types
will be selected for study: areas expected to have a new rural health center in the short term, areas
expected to have one only in the longer term, areas where a new health center will replace one in
rented or dilapidated facilities, areas where a health center already exists and no major new input is
expected, and areas without a health center that will not receive one under the project. Areas will be
randomly chosen to the extent possible, and the population in each catchment area will be randomly
sampled and surveyed, focusing on questions relating to health status and health service utilization and
including questions about socioeconomic background and other determinants of health status and
behaviors. The possibility will also be considered of collectng some medical data-height and weight
for children, to begin with, and should it be possible the results of some medical evaluations. These
samples will be studied at least three times, at the beginning, middle, and end of the project.
Information about the specific services provided over time in each area will also be collected. This is a
general sketch of the type of study to be done; details will be worked out by PHC staff in collaboration
with consulting researchers.
8.    The accompanying tables suggest some particular indicators to be used-in family planning and
in health-for tracking, evaluation of specific interventions, and final evaluation of project impact.



66
Table H.1: Monitoring and Performance Indicators for the Service Delivery
Component
Subazepeu.v    Proces fujdlcame                                               -V    by V.de* sadl)                               ouswsat
PNimy hea  cam    Lmpl denieaioaof civil woeka-pe amge of project fail   i, .n a   sevc hzsv_mea it prjectrea rehdve to
network             provine for which de steps have bee takea                      contrl arm:
* ahn   id5                                                   * hm_Ialaltad bhalth   N
*leidafdanurd                                                 b auasholdawh isiesd wybA  tf
* tndericg acpWlted                                           * houehaoldswd madalactry waft dbpoal
* 30%. 60%. _d 100% caucdcompkIted.                           * mditera receiving MCH _mices
a fully immked chldrea eider ageI
Provisios of vehicle and equipmnentad f Iur_hr-peretaeof      *         aimu s oOveuge-4fli e. DPT M, OPV m
project ficilitee i a provic for which tbh   ape bove bae      * childre with geowth mositoring chas
takN                                                          * d      rs cam treaed with ORS.
* tauder doceaprpaed. approved
* .    Iima aeed. contracis ewaded                           Heat Natus hmprovinenain pot m    reledve to
* equipeaidolivered. dlled.                                   coaol aru_:
r     ratw-inf p-L chUld. met
Staffg of new rural halth cm a-.pecentgof saff compleme    * mce-fett rm  for dianhe
(heal technicians, nua' aides. nd naidwive):                  a peeveleco of inainutrs md _nknasng
* rcre                                                        deFiceacl. op. iodine
a triing aaed                                                 * prevahace of       cb dieaes. op. malaria
* fs-year tra g compid                                        oed thrul
f all two-yew t-ann cmpletd                                    ce-fatlity rum for   ed .
* migned to  ci lb oaer.
Naknl_ Primc        lmplmeabof civil we*b compltdio of the a":                     lmpovod PHC mmasaom
Healt Cae           * site idetid                                                  * RHCa adequately astffed ed equpd
MeeVe               * lad acquied                                                  a appropriat   oue alocation.  Npl.Owid                         r
Cteer               * tendering compied                                                 _ a                                                      _:eanc
* conasucltiODco npieed-10% (foumdstioe),40% (mdtal           a ufcmstie aNd appropriae syb of aeperylelaD            mpmcy -d
satucn), 65 % (shll-floon, wall, roof), 85 % (mechanical.     of HHs md RHCs                                         d        in  bidny
electricaL phmbing), ead 100% (painting,  oltiod, doon, and    * ue of peformaca evaluato with feedback           (s  im icatone me ia
apoqc of work).                                                a adeqt medicl supplie in sock and   epired at    pd     co )
au lrftb                              9~~~~~~~~~~~ Reductians in life-years
Provisioa of vehicle and equment ad a  pfurniur-perce  of      a reduced oalfreferwal to ddoict ad prvinil        * Rc m            comm
projec fscilit il a prvince for which the  tepa have bees     hopitb.                                             cable dimeo_ee
tender docu _et preped, approed                                                                                 *        d equity im
* nppi    lected. coonre  awarded                             Greae clin atisfaction with aservic.
a quip_midelivered idbtalod.                                                                                      h       on
arm
Staffing wih full-time profelcaa sad support swff:
a uff identified and recruited
* t poaioa
Obaining techic    i :
* tent of reence finualid
* coutata recruied
a conaubi  work tated
*COnAuing woek compted.
Health    _gmen    Provasian of offIe fuiubAe nd computw packagse:                  nprvomme  in  formaton flow in the heM
infomunsystenm      * tender 4dcmatunta prepared, approved                         mysm:
*uppliern asected. contric awarded                           a Monthly ditact dat avalshis with one weeb' 4g
delivered to fhLciLit.                                       a Manthly provincial dat avilable with two week'
leg
Obtaig t ical                           *                       Mothly ntiocl dat availabl with am math'.
* term of  n frefe  finlzed                                   leg.
a coi nb reraited
* co_er fditie inst alimd                                     Dat uimdo
*yts n  e  t ad                                              * Use of daa at health can  ed hea_h houm  to
repir ad mainenane aafactofy.                                pleo  evice. onber mappli, nd scdulb dtfa
a U.e of dat at didrict ad provicial offise to
trgs  eprWl   od aupport acvie
* Us of dat at nadal lve for straeic p-ning.
Healt car           Supr5m Comdil for Natonal Medical m      e                     * Develomnmtof a detailed log-term health care      Cara   By
f cing  d           * C    on   lentm of rferec dialld and adoreed by Council     fiacin PAe deficocy ad
* FPase I cotAsu   recnaited                                  a Policy change in key aeas Wd  sd  the             u_bilhy.
* Coo_tantudy started                                         f_Acing piIL
* Consulant repo   _mamed sad  oned by Coumcil                  Estahblihmt of a National Medical I1_uino
* Ple II edicators developed                                  Schebe.
[Phaae 1 induictot to be added).                              Privatn  of non-tbreiingcurtv fecit



67
Table H.2: Monitoring and Performance Indicators for the Family
Plannin   Component
Oucomes
(assessed
Procas indicaxors                     Intenediale indicators                 manlyfrom
Subcom-    (assessedfrom organition records and   (assessed mainly from operatons        DHS-type sur-
ponent      interiews with staff)                 research andfield observaion)          veys)
Expansion   * Import of appropriate commodities   * Increased public access to contraception
of the      * Import, distribution, and proper use    and reduced travel times to sources of
method     and maintenance of minilaparotomy and   supply
mix        laparoscopy kits                       * Adequacy of contraceptive supplies at
* Systematic handling of contraceptive    local level
logistics                             * Adequacy of counseling about new
* Completion of each stage of training  methods, at health house, health center,    (Quantitative
* Constitution and operation of 20    hospital (for sterilization), and mobile  goals will be
mobile teams                          team levels                            set after first
* Completion of report on local       * Client satisfaction with counseling  DHS-type sur-
production                            * Client satisfaction with tatment at  vey. Outcomes
facilities and by helth staff          are to be
* Increasea in adoption of new methods    evaluated in
and in overall couple-years of protection    comparison to
* Improvements in use-effectiveness of    trends in
specific methods, especially the pill  comparable
Institu-    * Appointment of skilled staff at central   * Proper supervision of district offices  developing
clountries,
tional     and provincial levels                  * Collection and interpretation of ueful    focusing to the
develop-    * Completion of each stage of training  management information               extent possible
ment       * Procurement, use, and maintenance of   * Accurate reporting on acceptors and  on the
vehicles and planned equipment        consumption and useful feedback to pro-    marginal
* Institution of appropriate procedures    viderm and field supervisor       impact of the
and controls for provincial offices   * Quick responsos to orgnizational     project itelf.)
challenges and management focus on
problem areas                          * Increase in
* Strong staff morle                   contraceptive
Informa-    * Production of educational and training   * Increase in public acceptance and  prevalence rate
tion/ed-    materials on new contraceptives       discussion of family planning          *
ucation/    * Production of advertising and pro-  * Increase in public knowledge about how   t Reduction in
commu-    motional materials                     to use contrsceptivo methods effectively    total fertility
nication    * Development of plans for IEC cam-   * Increase in knowledge and positive   rate
campaigns  paigns                                 attitudes among particular gmups targotd   * Reduti
* Completion of and publication of    by campaigns, such as adolescents        Ruct on 
reports on 5 seminars or workshops                                            ild and
0 Completion of and reports on 4 small                                       child and
IEC evaluation studies                                                       maternal mor-
tality and mor-
Evalu-      * Constitution and operation of advisory   * Development of strategic plan from  bidity
ation and    Evaluation Committee                 DHS-type data
research    * Completion of report on Human       * Revisions in provider practices, clinic  * Reduction in
Reproduction Center                   procedures, targeting, and other practices   rat of popula-
0 Completion of and reports on 2 DHS-   as a result of evaluation findings   tion growth
type surveys                          * Inereased program efficiency and
* Completion of and reports on 10     effectiveness
pieces of operations research, including
experiment on mobile teams
* Msnagement discussions of evaluation
results and their program implications



68
ANNEX I
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PMU)
1.    Organization
The PIU would comprise of a full time project manager who shall have overall
responsibility for the execution of the Project. He should be assisted by a financial manager who
will be responsible for project finance and accounting and a procurement manager who will
advise and assist on all procurement procedures and monitor their implementation. The
managerial group would be assisted by other professional staff to ensure timely decisions and
project execudon. Support staff would include (some on a part time or occasional basis)
interpreters/translators, computer experts, English speaking and bilingual (Farsi/English)
secretaries and drivers. The PIU would be provided with adequate office space for its staff and
facilities for file storage, copying, telecommunications (telephone, telex, and facsimile),
information systems (computers and software), transport, and adequate operating funds.
2.    Overall Responsibilities
Overall project implementation responsibilities of the PIU will include the following:
(a)   Follow up and prepare periodic (monthly) reports on the progress of the Project
implementation
(b)   Coordinate the activities of concermed agencies, contractors and consultants, in
order to ensure a consistent and timely implementation of the Projects
(c)   Monitor the procurement and the disbursement of the goods and services
purchased for the Projects
(d)   Provide other management and administration services as may be necessary for the
successful implementation of the project
(e)   Coordinate with the World Bank on the status of the loan, submit the required
documentation to the World Bank, request further replenishment of special account
3.    Job Description of Principal PIU Staff
L     Project Maner
The project manager would be a medical doctor or a university graduate in public health
or other related disciplines. A post-gradua  training in public health is advisable and a minimum
of 15 years experience in the administration and management of health services is required. The
Project Manager would need to be well acquaind with public administration in general and with
the institutional setup of MOHME in particular. Experience in the implementation of develop-
ment projects is preferable. Fluency in English is required.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -   -- - - - -- - - -



69
The project manager would be responsible for the supervision and coordination of all
project activities and the implementation of all project components. As such, he would be
responsible for the administration of financial resources for the project, including the monitoring
of project accounts and costs. The project manager would report to the project coordinator
(Director General of the PHC Network Expansion Program & Alternate Deputy Minister for
Health Affairs) and, through him, to the Deputy Minister for Health Affairs. The project
manager would coordinate the activities of all PIU staff.
In particular, the Project Manager would:
-     Assist MOHME in finalizing project preparation
-     Supervise all procurement activities (i.e., the procurement of works, goods, and
consulting services) under the project
-     Monitor project performance
-     Ensure the timely preparation and submission of progress reports to the Project
Coordinator, Deputy Minister and the Bank, including, midterm reviews and
project completion reports
-     Coordinate with the Bank and make the necessary arrangements for Bank
supervision missions
b.    Project Engineer
The project engineer would have a degree in civil engineering or in architecture. He
would have a minimum of 15 years experience in supervising and implementing construction
projects throughout the country. Experience in both the public and the private sector would be
preferable. He should be familiar with government procedures and regulations and the planning
of construction programs. He should also be familiar with the procurement and costing of goods
and works. A good command of English is preferable.
T-he project engineer would be responsible for all activities under the project that are
related to physical infrastructure. These activities would include--but would not necessarily be
limited to:
-     The review and evaluation of construction documents
-     Site selection, acquisition and analysis
-     Bidding processes and the award of contracts
-     Building construction including civil, mechanical (e.g., plumbing and HVAC) and
electrical works
-     The procurement of materials, equipment and furniture
-     Building reception upon completion
In assuming the above responsibilities, the project engineer would coordinate with
MOHME health offices in the provinces and districts, as well as with the consulting architects
and engineers involved in the project. The project engineer would assist the Project Manager in
facilitating supervision missions conducted by Bank staff. He would review and consolidate
progress reports from the provincial or district authorities and other concerned parties (e.g.,
consultants).



70
c.    Project Financial Officer
'Ihe financial officer would have a university degree in finance, business management or
accounting and practical experience with an accounting firm with at least 15 years experience in
the administration and management of large accounts. The Financial Officer should be well
acquainted with public administration in general and would need to be familiarized with the
institutional setup of MOHME in particular. Experience in the implementation of development
projects is preferable. Fluency in English is required.
The financial officer would be responsible for the supervision of all project accounts. As
such, he would be responsible for the administration of financial resources for the project,
including the monitoring of project accounts and costs under the supervision of the Project
Manager.
In particular, the financial officer would:
-     Assist MOHME in finalizing project preparation, especially on matters related to
procurement, disbursement, audits and accounts
-     Monitor all procurement activities under the project with the assistance of
procurement staff and consultants
-     ensure the timely preparation and submission of disbursement applications to the
Bank
-     Maintain separate annual audits of project accounts
4.    Functions of PIU
The following section describes, in detail, the functions which need to be performed by
PIU for the procurement and disbursement under the World Bank loan. More detailed
description is available in the World Bank publications: The World Bank Procurement
Guidelines, Disbursement Handbook, and Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing,
copies of which should be kept with PIU for distribution to interested parties.
The World Bank has developed extensive guidelines which need to be followed for the
procurement and disbursement under its loans. The World Bank conducts training classes for the
Government staff to become familiar with these rules and procedures and it held such a seminar
in Tehran last year. However, these procedures tend to be complex, especially for new borrow-
ing entities that have limited experience of procurement in the international procurement and in
the World Bank procedures in particular. Until the GOI staff members becomes fully conversant
with the World Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures, a consulting firm or procure-
ment agent should be hired to carry out the procurement under the Loan, while simultaneously
training a local procurement institution to be responsible for public procurement in the future.
This procurement agent should have experience in the World Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures and should report to the Procurement Manager of PIU.
S.    Procurement Functions of PIU
The procurement of large contracts carried out through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). For ICB, the PIU would be responsible for the following.
(a)   Arrange advertising in the UN, local, and international professional press media
and advise foreign delegations of World Bank member countries.



71
(b)   Prepare bidding documents using the custom-designed standard bidding documents
for the procurement of goods and works with appropriate adjustments to suit
individual procurement packages.
(c)   Distribute/sell'bidding documents to prospective bidders at a nominal cost,
crediting the funds received to the Project's account.
(d)   Invite bids on a CIF basis from suppliers in eligible countries.
(e)   Provide clarifications in response to potential bidders' questions.
(f)    Conduct the bid opening process and prepare the minutes of bid opening.
(g)   Evaluate bids (and consultants' offers) and submit a bid evaluation report to the
MOHME with award recommendations.
(h)   Sign and finalize the contract.
(i)    When required, arrange pre-shipment inspections (PSI) and coordinate the
resolution of disputes, if any.
The procurement of smaller contracts (less than certain amount, pre-agreed with the
World Bank) can be done through non-ICB methods. For procurement under non-ICB, the PIU
would follow the appropriate procedures specified in the Loan Agreement, including the
following.
(a)   Soliciting written quotations from a list of potential suppliers in eligible countries
and broad enough to secure competitive prices.
(b)   Soliciting quotations on sole-source basis and negotiating with suppliers for spare
parts or other proprietary items.
(c)   Placing purchase orders and contracts with selected suppliers.
In the area of contract administration services, PIU would be responsible for the
following.
(a)   Collect documentation, such as inspection certificates, certificates of
origin/manufacturer, manufacturers'/suppliers' guarantees, bills of lading,
beneficiary insurance certificates, and manufacturers' invoices.
(b)   Forward documentation to the clearing agent.
(c)   Handle insurance claims.
(d)   Prepare withdrawal applications with the required supporting documentation and
arrange payments to suppliers.
Technical Assistance Component. For the consulting services under TA component, PIU
would be responsible for the following.
(a)   Prepare Terms of Reference acceptable to the World Bank, and review proposals
and appoint consultants for the studies agreed to be carried out under this



72
component, ensuring that the procurement procedures and contracts comply with
the Loan Agreement and with World Bank Guidelines.
(b)   Monitor the implementation of the TA contracts to ensure their timely execution,
ensure that the consultants receive the supporting services agreed (housing,
transportation, staff, office facilities, etc.), freely travel to and from and within
Iran and have access to documents and other information necessary, that they are
paid in a timely and professional manner and that an acceptable output is received
for each study.
The World Bank guidelines for procurement of goods would apply for procuring goods (e.g.,
computers) under the TA component also.
6.    Disbursement Responsibilities of PIU
PIU would be responsible for the disbursement of funds, the preparation of withdrawal
applications and the collection of documents. The Disbursement Handbook, which is binding in
disbursement matters for World Bank loans, provides additional information on the procedures
and should be read in conjunction with this section.
Special Account. To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account (SA) will be
opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. If such Bank has an office in Iran,
the account may be opened in the Iranian branch. The currency in which the SA is to be
maintained is to be agreed between the Borrower and the World Bank and would be specified in
the Loan Agreement. The SA would be maintained in a fully convertible and stable currency.
The PIU would send to the World Bank on a monthly basis or more frequently if necessary,
requests for replenishment of the SA for the amounts disbursed therefrom.
T=he foreign commercial bank selected to be the depository bank of the SA should be
selected as soon as possible. The technical assistance provided by this Bank to PIU, such as
processing of letters of credit (LC) and other foreign transactions, should be considered as part of
their services and no World Bank funds could be disbursed for that purpose. The SA would be in
the name of the Borrower and would be administered by authorized representatives of the
Borrower (preferably staff at the PIU). Two signatures would be required to make any
transaction from the account.
The bids and contracts would include payment terms and PIU would have to ascertain,
before approving the contracts, that these payment terms are in line with World Bank
disbursement procedures. The acceptable disbursement procedures for this component would be
the following.
(a)   Procedure of special commitments (a special commitment is an irrevocable
agreement to reimburse commercial banks for payments made, or to be made,
under the cover of an LC). The special commitment is issued by the World Bank
at the request of the PIU and is in favor of the supplier through their banks; the
mechanism for this procedure is fully described in the Disbursement Handbook,
page 24.
(b)   Payments of the LC through the Special Account. At the request of the supplier
PIU will give order to the SA depository bank to transfer the necessary funds to
the banks of the suppliers.



73
(c)   In the case where no LC has been used, direct payments to the suppliers by the
PIU through the SA can also be effected. Payment terms should be reasonable
and protect both the buyer and the seller. Advance payment of 100 percent cannot
be accepted; acceptable commercial payment terms are for instance 10 percent at
signing of contract, 80 percent at shipment and 10 percent at delivery, or a
reasonable variant of this.
(d)   There might be cases when the same contract would include one or more of the
acceptable procedures. A combination of these procedures can be used.
7.    Actions to Initiate Disbursement
The following summarizes the actions that would need to be taken by PIU to initiate
disbursements to suppliers. Subsequent to signing of the loan, PIU should follow up with
MOHME representing the Borrower to ensure that a letter signed by the authorized official
(Minister) of MOHME has been sent to the World Bank giving authorization to those approved to
sign requests for payment under the loan. The letter should include the following.
(a)   The authorization of those approved to sign the requests to the World Bank for
payments and special commitments. The Government might want to have joint
signatures or sole signature. At least two arrangements should be made for
authorization for signing, in case one person is away.
(b)   The authorization of the persons who would be authorized to make transactions of
any kind from the SA. Two signatures would be requested for each transaction.
More than two persons should thus receive this authorization.
(c)   Legalized specimen signatures should be attached to the above letter, and the letter
should  be addressed to World Bank, to the attention of Mr. Douglas H. Keare,
Chief, Population & Human Resource Operations Division, Country Department
II, Middle East & North Africa Region, The World Bank, Washington D.C., with
a copy to Mr. Quintos, Disbursement Officer.
The selection of the commercial bank for opening the Special Account (SA) should be
made as soon as possible. Once the account has been opened, PIU should advise Mr. Quintos,
(LOAEL) by fax giving full information on the account number, narne and full address of the
bank, including all the codes and the name in which the account is to be held.
Upon the approval of the loan, an advance from the loan would be deposited in the SA.
A request for this advance should be sent by PIU to LOAEL using form 1903. All requests for
payments should be prepared on form 1903 and duly signed by the authorized signatories.
PIU should obtain and keep several copies of the Disbursement Handbook, stock of
forms 1903, page 1 and 2, form 1931, and once the loan have been signed, copies of the
approval letter and the Loan Agreement.
8.    Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
PIU should establish and maintain a Management Information System (MIS) covering all
transactions financed by the Loan, as follows. The records would include information received
on all procurement transactions, including the kind of goods purchased, the contract value,
identification of the bidders and the winning supplier, the key dates for the bidding process, and
the subsequent fulfillment of the contract. The above information would allow the PIU to



74
monitor the implementation and would also provide the basis for PIU to prepare the Project
Completion Report required after the Loan has been disbursed and closed.
PIU should establish an appropriate accounting system according to generally accepted
standards, in order to provide information on receipt and use of funds, in line with the terms of
the Loan Agreement. The system would ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions
under the Loan, and clear presentation of the financial information. It should enable identification
of the use of all funds by components and categories of goods imported. The accounting should
reflect the movements of the receipts and payments through the Special Account, with balances
agreed with monthly financial statements from the holding commercial bank and with periodic
statements from the World Bank. Also, it would reflect the transactions through the Rial
Account with monthly agreement with the National Bank. The accounting would be supported by
appropriate documentation which would be retained in well organized files and made avaflable for
review by World Bank staff and the auditors.
PIU should prepare annual statements of all receipts and payments under the Loan
showing the amounts relating to each component and category as detailed in the Loan Agreement.
The statements would include a summary of all Withdrawal Applications from the World Bank,
showing individual dates, and amounts in US dollars and Rial equivalent. In addition, there will
be an annual statement summarizing receipts and payments in the Special Account.
PIU should arrange for the auditing of all the above financial statements, in accordance
with generally accepted accounting standards, by independent auditors acceptable to the World
Bank. The auditor's report would specifically refer to the eligible use of the Bank's funds in
accordance with the Loan Agreement and with World Bank's guidelines. The audited statements
and report thereon, would be submitted to the World Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year of the borrower.



75
ANNEX J
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER
THE FAMILY PLANNING COMPONENT
Technical assistance under the family planning component is to be provided in seven
areas:
*     Training of trainers for providers of contraceptive seicicas
*     Pre-feasibility study of local production of contraceptives
*     Management training
*     Guidance in evaluation of information-education-communication activities
*     Preparation of a proposal for a Human Reproduction Center
*     Advice and assistance on conduct of national demographic and health surveys
*     Guidance and advice in conduct of operations research studies.
The main responsibilities of the consultants who would provide technical assistance of each type
are outlined here.
1.    Training for contraceptive services
Four consultants would provide training to about 17 physicians in minilaparotomies,
vasectomies, and Norplant insertions and removals. These physicians, mainly university
gynecologists, would subsequently train all the other physicians in MOHME with responsibility
for performing these procedures. The training should therefore prepare them to perform the
procedures themselves as well as to train others.
Both theory and practice would receive emphasis. Each trainee should perform an
acceptable number of procedures of each type under supervision of the consultants in order to
develop and demonstrate proficiency. Besides becoming fully conversant with the procedures
themselves and the attendant risks, the trainees should be fully versed in the advantages and
disadvantages of the methods in comparison to other methods. Consultants would place some
emphasis on appropriate counseling for couples considering these procedures.
2.    Study of local production of contraceptives
In the second year of the project, two international consultants and a local counterpart
will conduct a study of the local production of particular contraceptives. They will focus
especially on condoms and possibly on other contraceptive methods as well, assessing the
potential capacity and the existing resources for production.
The assumptions behind this study are that demand will have been clearly demonstrated
by a demographic and health survey and will have grown to acceptable levels for efficient local
production toward the latter part of the project. Government interest in local production is
already clear. Since local production of pills and IUDs already exists, these will be covered only
to the extent of considering whether more modern formulations and devices can be introduced.
For condoms, the issue may be quality control and whether this has been adequately demonstrat-
ed. Demand for injectables is expected to be too small to sustain local production, but should
demand grow more quickly than expected under the project, the consultants may also be asked to
consider this method.



76
3.     Management training
A consultant on family planning management will work initially with the Population and
Family Planning Department, and subsequently with selected provincial family planning offices,
in order to enhance their ability to define appropriate missions and strategies, to organize their
work in the most efficient manner, to utilize program information to the greatest effect, and to
work together most effectively as teams. The consultant may focus on perceived management
problems, and also give special attention to such areas as strategic planning, the management
information system, and the use of evaluation data.
Initially, the consultant will assist the department in reviewing program objectives,
strategies, organizational structures and assignments, and their suitability in the particular
program environment. The consultant will then assist management and staff in working out
desirable modifications and procedures for implementing them.
Subsequently, the consultant will focus on two or three provincial offices and similarly
assist the offices in reviewing, and if necessary revising, strategies and structures.
4.    Evaluation of information-education-communication activities
A consultant with a background in communications will assist the department in
developing a continuing program to evaluate the effectiveness of IEC activities and to design the
most appropriate approaches. The program should cover such areas as 'formative" research,
which uses quantitative and qualitative data to develop approaches to changing behavior, which
are subsequently field-tested; market research, to assess in advance the potential demand for
products and likely responses to particular communications; tracking studies (or output
monitoring) to provide indicators on a regular schedule of such things as materials distribution,
initial acceptance of materials and communications, and initial impact; and formal evaluation
studies, using targeted surveys or quasi-experimental designs to provide reliable estimates of IEC
impact and their relative cost-effectiveness.
Besides providing general advice on an IEC evaluation program covering such
approaches, the consultant will assist in designing some specific evaluation exercises that may
immediately inform the programn about IEC impact. In the process of developing studies, the
consultant will provide practical training to enable IEC specialists in the department to design,
conduct, report on, and draw implications from such studies on a continuing basis.
5.     Human Reproduction Center
The consultant will draft a report reviewing the rationale for the development of a Human
Reproduction Center and providing a detailed proposal for the establishment of such a center.
This center is meant to provide an institutional base for work in family planning evaluation and
research. It could also conduct studies of contraceptive methods and of infertility, its causes, and
its remedies. The center could also play a role in training staff for family planning activities.
The report will explore the justification for a center, considering in the process any
feasible alternatives, and assessing the availability of human and other resources for such an
institution. The proposal for a center will consider what type of institution it should be and how it
should be linked with MOHME, how center policies and strategies should be set, what the
organizational structure should be, what physical facilities will be required, an appropriate
architectural design if this is indicated, the costs of establishing the center, how recurrent costs
should be covered, and what process should be followed in establishing the center.



77
6.    National demographic and health surveys
A consultant team will initially consider the need for national demographic and health
surveys and how they would assist programn management. With local assistance, the team will
then conduct two national demographic and health surveys comparable in coverage and quality to
the surveys conducted under the Demographic and Health Surveys program. In the process, they
will train staff in those skills lacking in the organization that are essential to such surveys.
The consultant team will agree on survey objectives and parameters with MOHME;
design questionnaires and training guides with MOHME input; design a sample using the 1991
census as the frame; provide initial training for field supervisors, who will subsequently train
field workers; utilize the existing ad hoc MOHME network used for the KAP surveys for
fieldwork; develop procedures for data handling and analysis and provide training in these; work
with MOHME in producing and publishing survey reports in both Farsi and English; and advise
MOHME about implications of the results for program strategies.
7.    Operations research
An international consultant and a local counterpart will assist the department in
developing an operations research (or health systems research) program in family planning.
Initially, the consultants will evaluate the research needs of the family planning program and
prioritize areas for operations research work, according to their potential for contributing to
program effectiveness and efficiency. They will then assist in developing "requests for proposals"
on the topics that the department decides on as priorities, and also provide comments on
submissions.
Depending on the research studies that are actually started and the needs of the
researchers involved, the consultants will provide advice and guidance on issues of design,
approach, methodology, policy emphases, and dissemination. The degree to which and manner in
which this assistance will be rendered will be agreed on by the department and the consultants as
particular studies are identified.
The consultants will assist in evaluating research results for department management,
assessing the relevance of findings for policy and recommending appropriate programmatic
changes.



78
ANNEX K
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE HEALTH CARE FINANCING STUDY
1.    In the medium and long term, the Government's capacity to improve substantially health
conditions in the country depends on sustaining adequate financial support for the extensive
network of PHC services. Preliminary drafts of the Second Five-Year Plan indicate a strong
political will to address the issue of health care financing. Two main strategies are suggested: (a)
to establish a national medical insurance scheme for the entire population that would meet the
criteria of equity, effectiveness and quality of services; and (b) to entrust the private sector with
an increasing role as provider of curative care, particularly hospital care in urban areas. Both
these strategies are now incorporated in a law approved by the Majlis in February 1993. The
Government requested Bank assistance in developing plans to implement these strategies.
Objective and Scope
2.     The objective of Component C is to help the Government determine the most effective
way to supplement financing of recurrent health expenditures, with particular attention to
sustaining adequate support to PHC, through shifting the costs of curative services to an
insurance scheme and privatizing curative facilities. Towards this end, the project will provide
the necessary consultants to carry out a technical assistance study on health care financing. The
project will finance all costs related to the use of consultants, including fees, living expenses,
travel costs, and the cost of report preparation and dissemination. The study will be undertaken
in three phases.
Phase I
3.     The purpose of Phase I will be to develop the exact scope and implementation
arrangements, including the consulting requirements and the detailed terms of references for
Phases II and III.
4.    Broad terms of reference for this phase are to
(a)   briefly review the sector background with particular reference to health care
financing, including governrnent policies and programs, existing mechanisms and sources
for health care financing, and main issues related to institutional aspects and service
delivery
(b)   prepare the detailed scope, terms of references and consulting requirements for
Phases II and III of the study.
5.     The consultants' recommendations will be reviewed and endorsed by a steering committee
(described below) before the start of implementation of Phases II and III.
Phase II
6.    In Phase II, the current situation with respect to health care financing, both in the public
and private sectors, will be reviewed in detail and the needs for (additional) recurrent funding in
the sector will be assessed. Based on that review, the consultants will recommend the best
options to implement the Government policies regarding sector financing and design a detailed
work program for detailed development of these options in Phase III.



79
7.     Broad terms of reference for Phase II will be to
(a)   review current public sector financing, including such aspects as:
*     levels of finding and relative participation of the various government agencies
concerned
*     breakdown of public expenditures by type, activities, and level of service delivery
*     current policies and practices of health financing in the country
*     relevant administrative and managerial setup (e.g. for budget planning)
*     estimated financial requirements for the forthcoming plan period
*     the level of subsidies (implicit and explicit) in the pricing of pharmaceutical
products.
(b)   examine the best means of implementing the mandated medical insurance scheme
for curative services in order to increase financing for PHC services, covering these
activities:
*     review and discuss the types of insurance currently available
*     assess the problems and likely obstacles in implementing the mandated national
health insurance scheme
*     evaluate alternative benefit packages, with respect to their potential participants,
the cost of providing care for the covered services, and the impact on the utiliza-
tion of services
*     estimate the premium levels required to achieve a range of cost recovery
objectives and evaluate the effects of different premiums on the size and
affordability of the potential participant population
*     examine the current regulations and administrative and institutional arrangements,
and suggest changes which would be required to support implementation of the
national medical insurance scheme
*     make specific recommendations regarding the further steps to be taken in making
the national medical insurance scheme operational.
(c)   review the current and potential role of the private sector in providing health care,
including:
*     review the current situation with respect to the number and types of services
provided, size and characteristics of the population concerned and, if possible, the
total amount of payments made by the population for private services
*     identify the type of patients and the proportion of the population whose health care
needs can be met by the private sector
*     examine the current policies, regulations and administrative arrangements
regarding private practice and suggest changes which may be required for more
effective private services
*     identify the resource implications of increased privatization, particularly in terms
of manpower and physical infrastructure development
*     evaluate mechanisms for transferring public curative facilities not used for training
to the private sector
*     make specific recommnendations on all the above.
8.     As for Phase I, the consultants' report and recommendations related to Phase II will be
reviewed and endorsed by a steering committee prior to start of Phase III.



80
Phase III
9.     Phase III will develop in detail the options selected as the most effective for implementing
the national medical insurance scheme and the privatization of curative facilities not used for
training, providing specific guidelines and recommendations about how to proceed. Particular
attention will be given to
*     the administrative and managerial setup of the National Medical Insurance Scheme
*     the minimum and maximum range and types of services to be covered by the
Scheme
*     the methods and procedures for estimating the cost of services and updating the
estimates periodically
*     the methods and procedures for determining the prices of pharmaceuticals and
other essential supplies, and the proportion of the costs to be recovered from users
*     the premium levels for various categories of beneficiaries
*     the modalities for transferring those curative facilities not used for training to the
private sector.
Consulting Requirements
10.   The services of international and local consultants, for a total of 20 and 27 person-months
respectively, will be needed to undertake the Study.
11.    Phase I will be undertaken by two individual consultants: a health care financing expert
and a public health specialist. The health care financing expert (international consultant) will be
a health economist with extensive international experience with private/public sector issues and
insurance schemes in middle-income countries. He or she will provide a total period of 2 person-
months, including one person-month in Iran for the project. The local consultant will be fWly
familiar with the administrative and managerial setup and the operations of MOHME as well as
of the main agencies and institutions (both public and private) responsible for providing health
care in the country. A good command of both English and Farsi will be required. He or she
will be recruited for a total period of 2 person-months. The two consultants will work as a team
headed by the health care financing expert.
12.   Phases II and III will be carried out by a team of consultants whose terms of reference,
work program, etc., will be determined during Phase I. It is envisaged that the members of the
team will have expertise in health economics, public health (health services development), health
planning, budgeting and accounting methods, hospital financing, cost recovery mechanisms,
health insurance schemes, and privatization. The team will include both international and local
consultants. Unlike in Phase I, the consultants will be recruited through a consulting firm to
ensure better coordination among team members and reduce the workload of the PIU. The same
consultants will be involved in Phases II and III. It is tentatively estimated that Phases II and III
combined will require the services of international consultants for a total of 18 person-months,
and of local consultants for a total of 25 person-months.
Implementation Arrangements
13.   The Technical Assistance Study will be implemented over a total period of 18 months,
starting immediately upon loan effectiveness.
14.    The recruitment of consultants as well as the day-to-day implementation of the study will
be the responsibility of the PIU under the general supervision of the Deputy Minister for Health
Affairs. Recruitment of the consultants will be in accordance with Bank's Guidelines.



81
15.   The steering committee for the study will be the Supreme Council for National Medical
Insurance established in accordance with a law approved by the Majlis in February 1993 and
chaired by the Minister of Health and Medical Education. As a steering committee, it will
oversee implementation of the study and provide policy guidance to the PIU. It will meet as
often as necessary for this purpose to review progress made by the consultants. In particular, it
will be responsible for reviewing and endorsing the recommendations made by Phase I
consultants (on the scope and arrangements for Phases II and III) as well as the recommendations
made after Phase II regarding the options to upgrade the national insurance scheme and the
detailed study to be undertaken under Phase III.



82
ANNEX L
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Technical Evaluation of the Architectural Design Plans of the Rural Health Centers and
the National Primary Health Care Management Center
2.     Detailed Cost Tables and Cost Assumptions
3.     Missions' Aide-Memoires with relevant background documents
4.     Detailed Procurement Arrangements and Custom-Designed Bidding Documents
5.    Detailed Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance under the Family Planning
Program















ARMENIA                                                   55                              60                              65
r S ,k~~~~~ERBAIJAN
TURKMENISTAN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF IRAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND
<  s  _    >R sht  ~                   {2(    ~X~   <                       FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
8  E-GHW-NX  Zonpn  (   _  -  ~  Son    _ )        >                    mcosh z                PROJECT PROVINCES
\  <  l    Z4NJAN       P      ~MANZAND                          t        
RIVERS/LAKES
-j)KORDES T<                 ERAN  n      o     n                    ;)                          1-          SEASONAL LAKES/        35'-
vsor8an\  T   2  (  ts  SEMNAN  /       ;t      _   FLOODED AREAS
H \Ham odq^)        ;    2      f -                 /                             cJ         @  PROVINCE CAPITALS
SJ BAKHtARAN WDAtS MARKAZI                              (S<.  J KHORASAN                                    0  NATIONAL CAPITAL
BI khthto    Arak                                                                                            -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
0Cm  v    Abod 9  X |   °    < 7-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IRAQ                                         Isfahan                    < 
MLES
Shahr-  Yazd                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 s0   100   1 06  200
-Kord                                                                            I    I     I     I     I
lg  3  C  2 \ \> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PKesVgAGAISTAN
C HATAR                                  IdMAN   4    i   \
-.0             OMAN                         H /                                                                                  105 .         300
________________ _ -                                                          J \  AAh  z                                           J ,
SL'WCW=PG                                                                                                               A; FGHANISTAN\/ 
301                  KJfUSAN                                                                                Z a od)  
L  WD;  T  {   ; j|        -LOAIAR                             5,U AXE.                                                                  I



