Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24313
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35840; SCPD-3584S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 141.4 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR A
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
June 17, 2002
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2002)
Currency Unit = Rial
1 = US$ 0.000689
US$ I = Rls 1,450
FISCAL YEAR
March 21   March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COPE          Client Orientated Program Evaluation
CPR           Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DHS           Demographic Household Survey
FP            Family Planning
FPP           Family Planning Program
GOI           Government of Iran
HMIS          Health Care Management Information System
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IEC           Information Education Communication
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
KAP           Knowledge Attitudes Practice
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHME         Ministry of Health and Medical Education
MPO           Management and Planning Organization
NPMC          National Primary Health Care Management Center
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PBO           Planning and Budgeting Organization
PHC           Primary Health Care
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
RHC           Rural Health Centers
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
TQM           Total Quality Management
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:  Joseph Saba
Sector Manager/Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Nicole Klingen



IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
HEALTH AND FAMILY PL
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    1I
7. Bank and Borrower Perfommance                                                     12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfommance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26



Project ID: P005222                                       Project Name: HEALTH AND FAMILY PL
Team Leader: Nicole Klingen                               TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 13, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH AND FAMILY PL                          LIC/TFNumber: CPL-35840;
SCPD-3584S
Country/Department: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF                            Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/30/92                               Effective: 04/29/93           04/29/93
Appraisal:  12/15/92                                  MTR:
Approval:  03/25/93                                Closing: 06/30/99            12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementingAgency:  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Joseph Saba                               Ram Chopra
Sector Manager:      Jacques Baudouy                           Douglas Keare
Team Leader at ICR:  Nicole Klingen                            Bassam Ramadan
ICR Primary Author:  Nicole Klingen; Mario Antonio
Zelaya; Alaa Mahmoud Hamed;
Suha Rabah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated March 5, 1993 the general project objectives were to
(i) improve health conditions in rural areas where health conditions were particularly poor and existing
health services relatively inadequate, and (ii) reduce population growth in the country. To support these
general objectives the project would contribute by improving the quality and coverage of health care and
family planning services.
Context. The objectives and design of the Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project need to be
assessed in the context of (i) the Bank's relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran; (ii) the economic
situation prevailing in Iran at the time of project development; and (iii) the sectoral priorities (primary
health care and family planning) at the time of project development.
Iran was an active borrower of the World Bank until the oil windfall of the early 1970's. At that time
financial assistance from the Bank was phased out. Until 1993, there was only one project in the health
sector, the Iran Population Project, which was presented to the board in 1973.
When the Government initiated the Primary Health Care (PHC) and Family Planning (FP) Project in 1992,
incomes in Iran had started to decline following the long war with Iraq and the Government embarked on a
large reconstruction program. Iran had established an exemplary PHC network that was rated as one of the
best in the world and that corresponded to the "Master Health Plan", which was adopted in the 1980s for
the period of 1983-2002. This plan gives priority to basic curative and preventive services as opposed to
sophisticated hospital based tertiary care. Behind the background of economic difficulties during the long
war with Iraq, the Government of Iran (GOI) cut its development budgets, nevertheless for its commitment
to the promotion of health, it never reduced its efforts for the expansion of the PHC network which it had
established during the time of war. In addition, when income declined, in 1989 family planning services
were reintroduced (after a decade long hiatus) with the full support on all levels of Government in order to
contain rapid population growth.
Many factors affect the health sector in Iran: a very complex political environment, the Iraq-Iran war, the
country was cut-off from modem technology and knowledge. At the same time the,Government of Iran
through its strong commitment managed to establish an exemplary primary health care system and family
planning program with impressive results (see page 5).
As described above, the project objectives reflected the priorities for the health care sector at that time, as
identified by the Government and the Bank and were consistent with the overall strategy of increasing
access to primary health care services in rural areas and reducing population growth. The project objectives
were kept very general and the outcome indicators (increase in life expectancy, increased equity in health
indicators across areas, greater efficiency and sustainability of the health system, increase in contraceptive
prevalence rate, reduction in total fertility rate, reduction in infant mortality and maternal mortality, and
reduction in population growth) to measure the impact of the project were too broad.
3.2 Revised Objective:
During a supervision mission in February 1998, the very general project development objectives were not
revised but specified and key monitoring indicators (see Annex 1) were introduced.
The specific project development objectives were revised as follows:
1. To increase access to Primary Health Care (PHC) and Family Planning (FP) services in rural areas.
- 2-



2. To improve management of health services.
3. To improve the quality of the FP program.
4. To facilitate policy development in health care financing.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project design comprised the following components:
A. Service Delivery (US$215,300,000; 85% of total)
A. 1. Primary Health Care Network: This sub-component was designed to support the expansion of the
PHC network in selected underserved rural areas by establishing 623 new Rural Health Centers (RHCs).
Fourteen provinces (Teheran, Mazandaran, East Azerbaijan, West Azerbaijan, Khuzestan, Fars, Kerman,
Khorasan, Sistan/Baluchestan, Kordestan, Hormazgan, Lorestan, Hamadan, and Zanjan) were selected for
their relatively poor health and demographic conditions and limited coverage through the existing PHC
network. The 623 RHCs were planned to be built, equipped, staffed and provided with a four-wheel drive
vehicle for support of the Health Houses (that are attached to the RHCs) and for outreach purposes.
A.2. Health Management Development: This sub-component was designed to strengthen the management of
PHC in general and particularly at the district and provincial levels. it was planned to (i) establish a
national center for training and research in health management - the National Primary Health Care
Management Center (NPMC); and (ii) further develop the management information systems.
A.2. 1. The NPMC would be located in the Teheran area and serve as main venue to provide key
health personnel working at the district, provincial and national levels with pre- and in-service
training in a wide range of management related matters (e.g., management of medical supplies,
accounting, supervision, etc.). These key personnel would be trained as trainers and conduct training
at the provincial and district levels to other PHC staff. In addition, it was planned that new
approaches and technologies in both health and family planning be taught at the NPMC. The plan
was to (i) build and equip the NPMC; (ii) develop the curriculum, training methodology, and training
evaluation and health systems research methodology (applied to the PHC level); and (iii) provide
training at the NPMC.
A.2.2. The Health Management Information System sub-component was designed to help
consolidate and analyze information collected at the PHC facilities and enable health managers to use
the information available on the supply side (i.e., information on health facilities, personnel, drug
supplies, etc.) and to better measure progress made in terms of health and demographic indicators.
With the assistance of UNICEF the Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) developed
a software for this purpose. It was planned that this software would be further developed, tested and
expanded to all districts nationwide (as well as to higher levels of the system) and that the project
would finance 292 computer packages.
B. Family Planning Program (US$36,400,000; 14% of total)
The family planning component was designed to assist in the expansion of the MOHME family planning
program and consisted of four sub-components:
B. 1. Contraceptive Options: The project would diversify the method mix, mainly with the following new
options: low-dose, progestin-only minipills for breastfeeding women, intrauterine devices TCu-380A and
TCu-38OAg, injectable DMPA (depot medroxyprogesterone acetate), Norplant, and minilaparotomy
(tubal sterilization). This sub-component also provided for training of contraceptive providers.
- 3 -



B.2. Management Strengthening: It was planned that the central Population and Family Planning
Department would expand under the project from a dozen to 40 staff, and that a similar expansion (from 5
to 12 family planning staff) would take place in each province. The project was designed to provide
training for central and provincial staff in management and planning,
information-education-communication (IEC), and evaluation and research, as well as study tours to observe
other programs. In addition, various essential equipment and supplies would be provided.
B.3. Information-Education-Communication: This sub-component was designed to build up the capacity
for IEC activities in order to enable the family planning program to reach an expanding clientele with a
variety of different messages.
B.4. Evaluation and Research: It was planned to increase the capacity of the Population and Family
Planning Department in evaluation and research through the use of specific studies to help the program
assess its performance and evaluate the best approaches to adopt for further development. The following
studies were planned: (i) two surveys comparable to the Demographic Household Surveys (DHS); and (ii)
about ten pieces of operations research to assess the effects of particular aspects of the family planning
program.
C. Health Care Financing (US$500,000; 0.1% of total)
This component (included in the Second Five-Year Plan of the GOI) was aimed at improving the financing
of health care services. The project would fund a technical assistance study in three phases: (i) phase I:
development of exact scope and implementation arrangements for the study; (ii) phase 2: review of current
situation with respect to health care financing, both in public and private sectors; and (iii) phase 3: develop
detailed options selected to be the most effective for implementing a national health insurance scheme.
D. Project Implementation Unit (US$2,100,000; 0.9% of total)
The project design included support for the operating cost and salaries for contractual staff for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) (i.e., engineers to supervise civil works, etc), external training in procurement
and project administration for key PIU staff. However, this money was never used for salaries.
The design of the components was clearly linked to the project objectives above. The loan focused on the
priorities of the health sector at that time and were consistent with the overall health strategy of the
Government i.e., primary health care and family planning.
3.4 Revised Components:
NA
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no performance rating by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the World Bank at that time
(quality at entry rating). However, the ICR considers the overall quality at entry to be satisfactory. As
stated above the project was designed according to the GOI's priorities in the health sector.
The Bank provided significant inputs in a very short time during the formulation and design of this project.
In addition to the careful design of the components and the subcomponents, activities needed to ensure
sustainability, capacity building and Monitoring and Evaluation were incorporated in the project design. In
addition, a comprehensive Project Implementation Plan was prepared and many workshops on
implementation of Bank projects were held for staff in the MOHTME and the PIU during project
preparation. It is worth mentioning that the preparatory work for the family planning component was
exemplary. It included the preparation of an important background paper comparing family planning
- 4 -



strategies and policies in Egypt, Turkey and Iran and several high level workshops to discuss family
planning strategies and policies in Iran.
In spite of the above, the ICR finds two shortcomings in the appraisal of this project (detailed later in the
report): First is the lack of involvement of the Management and Planning Organization (MPO or former
PBO) in the project preparation, which delayed the project start by two years. Second, the capacity of the
local level to implement the project was not assessed in a systematic way.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Health Outcomes in Iran
Overall, Iran has achieved a remarkable improvement of health outcomes of the population since it first
established its innovative PHC network in the late 1980s and during the ten year period of project
implementation. The infant mortality rate (IMR) dropped from 53 in 1991 to 26 deaths per 1,000 live
births in 2000 (the MENA average is 44). The mortality rate of children under the age of five decreased 15
percent in the same time period (from 42 in 1986 to 36 in 2000. Life expectancy for males increased from
62 years to 67 and for women from 62 to 70 years within the same time period which is the same as the
MENA average. As described below, the total fertility rate (TFR) dropped from 5.5 in 1992 to 2.0 in 2000
which is very low compared to the MENA average of 3.9. This has led to a reduction in population growth
from 3.9 percent in 1986 to 1.2 percent in 2000 (the MENA average is 2.5 percent). In terms of access,
today 89 percent of the rural population has access to primary health care facilities compared to only 60
percent in 1986.
However, the project did not achieve its specific objectives, and this ICR gives an unsatisfactory rating to
the project outcome. As described above, the two very broad project objectives were specified and broken
down into four objectives. what follows is an assessment of the achievement of each of these objectives:
1. Increase access to Primary Health Care and Family Planning services in rural areas. This objective
has been achieved very partially since as of loan closing only 48 percent of the originally planned
RHCs were built and only about half of those were actually fully or partially operational. In terms of
utilization of the new RHCs, no definite statement can be made since the results from the health facility
survey are not detailed enough. It is important to note that as stated above the overall access of the
rural population to the primary health care system has increased. However, this is not due to the input
of the project but due to the effort of the Government of Iran in extending the PHC network over the
past 25 years.
2. Improve management of health services. This objective has not been achieved during the life of the
project. The NPMC, the mechanism to meet this objective was only completed at the end of the project
and hence management training activities were only marginally conducted. In addition, the primary
health care management information system was never operationalized.
3. To improve the quality of the Family Planning program. This is the only objective that has been
achieved in a satisfactory way. The project was successful in improving the availability and the mix of
contraceptive methods, strengthening management, conducting IEC campaigns, and conducting
important research and evaluation activities. These activities were most probably one of many factor
that helped to: (i) reduce the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) from 5.5 in 1992 (baseline year) to 2.0 in 2000
(DHS Iran); (ii) increase the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) from 35 percent in 1992 to 74
percent of the target population (currently married women ages 15-49) in the year 2000; and (iii)
narrow the urban-rural gap in the use of contraceptives.
4. To facilitate policy development in health care financing. This objective was not achieved since a
- 5 -



critical study to develop health care financing options was not undertaken.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Before evaluating the components, it is important to note that some of the key indicators for monitoring and
evaluation were not measured at all or on a sporadic basis. In general, the Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) System that was established during project preparation was only partially implemented during the
life of the project. In addition, the Governrment's M&E system failed to produce the data needed for
evaluation. Data for the evaluation of the Primary Health Care Network component were obtained from a
RHC survey conducted by the Government during the last 6 months of the loan. Unfortunately, the data are
not very sound and the survey will have to be repeated. Data to evaluate the Family Planning component
were extracted from the Demographic Household Survey Iran 2000.
A. Service Delivery
A. 1. Primarv Health Care Network:
The project was not successful in completing the construction of the 623 Rural Health Centers that were
planned in the beginning. By the loan closing date, only 48 percent of the originally planned RHCs were
built and only 50 percent of those built were actually fully or partially operational. In terms of utilization
of the facilities, there is no hard evidence since the data collection for the survey was not consistent through
all provinces and the data seem to be inconsistent. The survey should be repeated since it was well designed
but poorly implemented and the results would be very valuable for any evaluation of the project. Many of
the RHCs that were planned are still under construction. The Government budgeted the necessary funds to
finish the construction of these buildings by the end of March 2003.
The construction of the RHCs was split into three phases. During each phase the Management and
Planning Organization cancelled certain facilities off the list for the following reasons: (i) the sites were
located in such remote areas that there were no bidders interested; and (ii) lack of budget. In total 73
centers were cancelled from the originally planned 623. In summary it can be noted that: (i) in Phase I of
construction 202 out of 204 RHCs were constructed; (ii) in Phase 2, due to major difficulties with the
contractor only 47 out of 195 RHC were constructed; and (iii) in Phase 3, 75 out of 150 were constructed.
However, according to the RHC survey only 50 percent of those built are actually open to patients and not
all of them are fully equipped. The Universities of Medical Sciences and Health Services (responsible for
medical education and health care delivery at the provincial/district level) that were visited during the
random field visits reported difficulties with budgetary and human resources constraints as the main
reasons for not or only partially equipping the RHCs. In addition, the field visits seem to suggest quite a
low utilization rate of these facilities. However, the survey has only very few and inconsistent data on
utilization and no conclusion can be drawn. It might have been better to take underlying needs of the
population into account while selecting the sites for the RHCs. In addition, the vehicles that were supposed
to be purchased, were never provided to the RHCs, which hinders their effort of visiting the Health Houses
that are attached to the RHC as well as the outreach activities that are conducted from the RHCs.
A.2. Health Mana2ement Development:
A.2. 1. NPMC. This sub-component was not successfully achieved. The key input was the National
Primary Health Care Management Center that was supposed to be built in the very beginning of the
project in order to allow for training activities to be undertaken during the life of the project. These
training activities would have enhanced the capacity at the local level through training of trainers that
would have trained the district and province level staff in the primary health care sector. Unfortunately,
the NPMC was only built in 2000 and equipped in 2001. The training activities started during the last
6 months of the project and eleven short courses in various management fields were held. Overall the
-6-



courses received a good feedback from the participants and management of the NPMC will adapt the
courses to the needs of the participants. Since the NPMC was not operational for such a long time,
only a number of short courses abroad as well as local English language and computer for MOHME
staff were financed under the project.
A.2.2. Health Management Information System. This sub-component was not implemented completely.
The projected was supposed to support the development of a primary health care management
information system (HMIS). The software for the system was designed in 1997, finalized in 1999 and
tested in four sites (Karaj, Shemiranat, Shaheed-Beheshti) near Teheran. The Government intended to
procure the hardware to finalize the implementation of an automated MIS from the District Health
Center level up through the Ministry of Health and Medical Education. Unfortunately, the system was
never operationalized and the only outputs are the tested systems. The Government will build on this
system, when consolidating the various HMIS components in Iran under the Second Primary Health
Care and Nutrition Project.
B. Family Planning
Overall, this component was successful in reaching its objectives and outputs.
B. 1. Contraceptive Options:
Provision of new contraceptives: The project was able to diversify the availability of contraceptives
through the provision of modem contraceptives. This was done by importing effective amounts of DMPA
(2,828,700), Multiload 375 (55,650) and TCU 380A IUDs (695,000), Norplant implant capsules (21,000)
with Trocars (420), in addition to laparascopic sets (50) and minilaparatomy kits (200).
Change in the method mix: Preliminary results from the DHS-I (2000) confirmed that the method mix is
diversified and satisfactory. A marked change has occurred since the baseline year (1992), with a strong
increase in the consumption of injectables (from 0% to 2.8%), female sterilization (from 11.7% to 17.1 %),
and male sterilization (from 1.4% to 2.7%). Alternatively, a marked reduction has occurred in the share of
consumption of oral contraceptives (from 31% to 17.9%)and in the use of condoms (from 9.9% to 5.9%).
A slight reduction can be seen in the share of consumption of RJDs (from II to 8.5%). These reductions
are attributed to the introduction of the new methods and change in their market share. The increase in the
use of vasectomy (from 1.4% to 2.7%) could have been higher. (This is linked to problems related to
promoting vasectomy, especially difficulties of female health workers to talk to men about the procedure;
mixing vasectomy with castration; mixing infertility with impotency, perceptions of undesirable image
about their manhood; in addition to usual argument that family planning is the role of women and not men).
The expected increase in the consumption of Norplant did not occur (from 0% to 0.5%) due to its difficulty
to administrate, its complications (spotting), hirsutism , and its high cost compared to other methods in
relation to its years of protection (IUDs).
Contraceptive Method            1992 in %                  2000 in %
Urban         Rural         Urban            Rural
Condom                     8.0           4.2            7.2             3.6
Female Sterilization       7.7           7.4           16.1            18.9
Injectables                 0             0             1.3             5.5
IUD                        10.0          3.1           10.2             5.3
Male Sterilization          1.3          0.3            3.5             1.3
Norplant                    0             0             0.3             0.7
Oral                       20.1          26.1          16.5            21.9
-7 -



All Modern           47.1         41.1           55.2            57.2
Traditional                 27           10.4          21.7             9.7
Other                       0             0            0.5              0.3
TOTAL                      74.1         51.5           77.4            67.2
B.2. Manaeement Strengthenine:
The project was able to help strengthening the Central Population and Family Planning Department and its
family planning services in provinces in the project area by assigning additional staff to this area, training
of staff, and providing operational and transport equipment. The Central Population and Family Planning
Department has expanded at the central level and at the provincial level to implement the planned
organizational structure. Unfortunately, the planned overseas training and study tours were not conducted.
However, local training on contraceptive provision, management and planning, IEC, and evaluation and
research were conducted from the Govenmuent budget, which also provided support for essential equipment
and supplies including office fumiture, vehicles, equipment for training, computers and printers. The
Family Planning Program (FPP) introduced a number of tools to enhance the quality of their services.
Different models were used to assess and improve the quality at different levels such as Client Oriented
Program Evaluation (COPE), Total Quality Management (TQM), etc.
B.3. IEC Campainns:
The project was able to assist the MOHME's efforts of informing and educating the public about the
different aspects of family planning by producing materials, advertising in mass media, sponsoring of
seminars and workshops among influential groups, and conducing studies to evaluate the effectiveness of
such efforts. The success of the information, education and communication strategy is reflected in the
preliminary results of DHS-I (2000), where over 90% of respondents know about modem methods, and
except for pills (over 90%) about 50% to 66% of women consider themselves well informed about various
contraceptives. Annual national seminars for influential groups were held on the World Population Day.
Similar seminars at the provincial level were organized for policy makers, university chancellors, mullas,
director generals of other ministries, and general public.
B.4. Evaluation and Research:
The only output of this component that was not fully achieved was the DHS studies. Only one DHS in the
fourth year of the project was conducted instead of two originally planned at the beginning and at the end of
the project. The final version of the DHS is still under preparation.
The Knowledge-Attitudes-Practice (KAP) surveys planned in the middle of the project were conducted.
Other pieces of operations research were conducted such as mobile teams for clinical methods, proper
introduction of new methods, proper training on new methods and proper performance, proper handling of
client flow in urban centers, cost-effectiveness of different approaches to urban services. The DHS
questionnaire was used to obtain information about the patterns and reasons for discontinuation of different
methods, and assessing the private sector in family planning. An Evaluation Committee was established
within the Central Population and Family Planning Department and a Human Reproduction Center was
established.
C. Health Care Financing
This component was not completed. Unfortunately, only the first phase of the study was conducted. The
most important phase of developing the detailed options for implementing a health care financing reform
never started. As a result, it was agreed with the GOI that this study would be conducted in the Second
-8 -



Health Care and Nutrition Project.
D. Project Implementation Unit
The project financed the establishment and operation of the PIU. The project's poor performance can be
linked to the poor performance of the PIU. The effectiveness of the PIU was strongly hampered by (i) the
lack to exposure to the Bank in project implementation in general and lack of experience with Bank
procedures which often differed from Govenmuent procedures; (ii) the lack of counterpart funds for the
project during the first two years of the project life; (iii) the frequent change in PIU management and staff;
and (iv) the changes in the organizational structure of the PIU and its relationship with the MOHME (see
also 5.3 below). The project also financed training for PIU management and staff and local engineers to
supervise the civil works component of this project. Today the PIU still faces many of these problems albeit
to a much less degree.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has attained mixed results in terms of its impact on institutional development. It should be
noted that by design the project was not expected to undertake major sectoral reforms, but was directed
towards addressing the more immediate needs of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
improve access to primary health care services in rural areas and to reduce population growth. Given the
lack of experience of the Government in implementing major investment projects, an attempt was made to
keep the project components simple and manageable.
Among the most successful aspects of the project in terms of institutional development included the
strengthening of the Central Population and Family Department and its family planning services in the
provinces in the project area. Management capacity at the central and provincial level was developed to
identify and analyze problems, and develop and implement solutions that strengthen the program. Capacity
for strategic management was also strengthened. Today management of population and family planning
units is able to use data for evaluation, planning and targeting purposes. For example, today the provinces
conduct SWOT analyses (analyses that carefully look at strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats)
setting objectives and monitoring indicators. Annual review meetings are held to discuss problems that
occur and to resolve them. Strategic decisions were taken determining the role of the public versus the
private sector in the provision of contraceptives. It was decided that Norplant and tubal ligation are not
primary health care services that should be provided by the public but rather by the private sector.
As described above, the NPMC should have been used to provide training for trainers in various
management fields for primary health care staff. These trainers would have delivered training for staff at
the provincial and district levels. Since the project was only able to provide training in NPMC during the
last six month, the impact of this component on institutional development was negligible. However, it is
expected that the impact will be achieved in the future since the Government is committed to NPMC and
training courses are now held.
Operations and maintenance (O&M) of investments. Since the project invested substantial resources into
the construction and equipment of Rural Health Centers it should have been expected that a training
component for operations and maintenance of these investments be integrated into the curriculum of the
-9-



NPMC and a budget for increase recurrent costs prepared. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. While
there is a department in the MOHME which is responsible for the maintenance of construction and
equipment of the RHCs, there should have been a separate operations and maintenance plan (training and
budget plan) included in the project design. The Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project will
take this issue into account and has an O&M study as precondition for investing in the purchase of
equipment.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were two main factors outside of the control of the Government that affected the project were. First,
the reduction of revenues due to the fall in oil prices affected the timely availability of budgetary resources
for the project. Second, the change in Government after the elections resulted in major senior management
and staff changes at all levels including in the PIU.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The lack of support and involvement of the Management and Planning Organization (MPO) (former
Planning and Budget Organization (PBO)) effectively delayed the project start by two years since MPO did
not provide counterpart funds in the beginning of the project. In addition, during project implementation the
PIU received little support from MPO regarding budget allocations and approvals needed for the annual
disbursements. In addition, protracted payment procedures under the control of the Financial Controller
could have been streamlined to reduce the risk of contractors failure to honor contracts and to expedite
construction of new Rural Health Centers. Government import restrictions (especially for vehicles) could
have been waived to facilitate procurement through the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two main factors were identified that hampered the effective implementation of the project and were
subject to the MOHME and PIU control:
First, the number of changes that took place at the PIJ both in terms of its management and technical staff
and in terms of its organizational structure caused major delays in project implementation. Closely related
to these frequent changes are:
*   lack of effective monitoring and evaluation system for the project
*   lack of decisiveness and proactivity in difficult situations with contractors
*   lack of attention paid to fiduciary requirements (e.g., late audit reports that lead to suspension
of the Special Account for 6 months and hindered the construction phase 3 of the RHCs)
*   Disconnect of PIU from MOHME
Second, the Ministry of Health and Medical Education did not provide sufficient support to regional
universities in terms of provision of resources during project implementation as well as upon completion,
particularly at the time of commissioning the new RHCs. Many RHCs have been placed only in partial
operation mainly due to the limited budgetary resources.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Final project costs cannot be evaluated because the project was not completed before loan closing. The
same can be said about the financing resources. The Bank only disbursed about US$-- out of US$141.40
million equivalent. However, the Government of Iran has already allocated budgetary resources to complete
the project with its own funds. (This section will be completed by June 18, once the grace period is over.)
- 10 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of Infrastructure Investments
Primary Health Care Network. While the project has built 298 Rural Health Centers by loan closing date,
the sustainability of these investments are subject to some risks due to persistent weakness in the
maintenance management capacity and budget allocations at the provincial and district levels (while at a
country level, Iran can easily afford the sustainability of the investment). There is a need to undertake a
comprehensive review of the need for improving facilities maintenance by the MOHME in collaboration
with the universities in order to improve the quality of the services in the RHCs. In addition, the resources
need to be invested to equip the centers that have only been partially equipped. It is important to note that
the GOI has budgeted funds and is very committed to ftnishing the construction and equipping of the
remaining 252 RHCs.
Operational and Maintenance (O&M) Budget. The allocation of adequate operational and maintenance
budget will be critical for the proper functioning of the new facilities. During the field visits it became clear
that there is a lack of resources for O&M at the district level. It is highly recommended that the MOHME
and the universities conduct a medium term expenditure framework and identify the resources needed to
maintain the new facilities.
Sustainability of the Family Planning Services
The FPP has taken several steps to enhance the sustainability of their program. A summary of these
actions follows:
*   Support of cost-effective methods and diversifying the mix method: The FPP stopped the introduction
of contraceptive methods that are found not to be cost-effective and practical for use in PHC facilities.
These services, however, continue to be provided by the private sector.
*   Local production of contraceptive methods: Currently contraceptive pills and condoms are locally
produced in Iran in adequate amounts that are meeting demand. This seem to be more cost-effective
than importing the products. However, questions with respect to the quality of these products have been
raised. This issue is being addressed through a quality enhancing program of local production of
contraceptive methods conducted by the FPP. The GOI plans to produce DMPA and IUD locally. It is
recommended that the FPP conducts a thorough feasibility and cost-effectiveness study before
embarking on such a venture.
*   Use of men health workers: The new structure of the MOHME is introducing a cadre of men health
workers as health technicians to provide services to men to increase the use of condoms and accelerate
the use of yasectomies.
*   Improve premarital counseling: Premarital counseling, which is provided now in urban health centers,
is going to be provided in rural health centers. The quality of these services is not satisfactory. The
time devoted to it is very limited and there is no room for free discussion about the contraception
methods and their appropriateness. Alternative strategies are being discussed.
*   Promote the private sector role in providing contraceptive methods: Strategies are being introduced
to increase the share of the private sector in the provision of contraceptives. For example,
communication linkages are being built between urban/ rural health centers and the private clinics and
the FPP is paying for and/or subsidizing cases of vasectomy or tubal ligation conducted by the private
sector.
*   Establish an outreach program by using mobile teams and clinics: Mobile teams are now established
-1 1-



in all provinces in rural areas and in some provinces in all cities. More than 200 mobile teams are
supported through the regular budget. The FPP considers it a cost-effective method and client
satisfaction is being achieved.
*   The IEC campaigns are recognized as a very important part of the FPP and are well planned and
managed. The important achievement of the campaigns is that all parts of society (policy makers,
university chancellors, mullas, the communities, etc) are involved in the preparation and
implementation of the campaigns.
Sustainability of Training Programs
Management Training of Primary Health Care Workers. Although this training program that is conducted
by the NPMC started only a couple of months before loan closing, it has had a very positive response from
the participants and has strong support from the MOHME. The full establishment and set up to gain
regional importance as a leading training center in various management aspects will be pursued in the
Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project. The ICR recommends that the NPMC continues to
pursue the twinning arrangements with foreign universities to strengthen the training program.
Family Planning Training. This training was carried out from the governmental budget and included
provision of services, management, IEC and research and evaluation from the governmental budget. The
allocation of funds by the Government reflects the commitment to sustain resources for the capacity
building of the family planning staff.
Based on the above considerations, the ICR rates overall project Sustainability as likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no explicit arrangements to regular operations. However, the GOI has budgeted the resources to
finish the construction and to equip and staff the RHCs that are not finished by loan closing. In addition,
the GOI is very keen on an O&M Study as can be seen through the fact that under the Second Primary
Health Care and Nutrition Project this study is a sine qua non for the purchase of any equipment. Iran has
been committed to the PHC network since the early eighties and with its success is in fact an example for
many countries around the world.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The ICR considers the Bank's performance during preparation to be satisfactory. This was the first
operation in the health sector after a long hiatus of more than 15 years. There was no CAS available at the
time of project identification and the Bank had to initiate a sector dialogue during project preparation. The
Bank reviewed the Government sector policy and the "Health Master Plan", which was used to identify the
priority areas for Bank assistance. The Bank invested adequate project preparation resources and the
appraisal was carried out by a team, which had a good skill-mix and experienced staff. However,
considering that, on the one hand, the Bank had poor knowledge of the sector institutions, and on the other,
the sector institutions were not familiar with the operational policies and procedures of the Bank, even more
Bank resources should have been invested upfront to strengthen the institutional capacity of the sector
institutions on aspects of Bank policies and procedures. It should also be noted that the investment program
for the Rural Health Centers was very ambitious in terms of its large geographical coverage, which
presented serious challenges to the construction industry in Iran. Considering the above-mentioned factors,
it would have been less risky to have undertaken a smaller program starting with the first stage priority
areas. This would have been less strenuous to the Government institutions in terms of budgetary demands
*12-



and administrative overload. This situation is evidenced by the fact that even after many centers have been
physically completed, the regional universities responsible for their operation, mainly due to budgetary and
human resources constraints, have been able only to place them in partial operation, substantially below the
physical capacity.
7.2 Supervision:
The ICR considers the Bank's performance during supervision to be unsatisfactory. After the two years of
stand still in implementation because of lack of counterpart flunds the Bank should have heavily invested in
supervision and training of PIU and MOHME staff in project implementation issues and should have
carried out serious dialogue with MPO. In addition, the Bank and the PIU should have conducted a second
project launch workshop in order to ensure that the project would get off the ground in a satisfactory way.
Initially Bank supervision was adequate in terms of staff capability. However, the frequency and staff
composition of missions were reduced a lot during the second through fifth year of project implementation.
This was mainly due to internal organizational restructuring, budgetary constraints; and staff changes. This
project bounced between three divisions, was task managed by five task managers and was not given
enough budgetary resources to do proper supervision, especially given the background that the Bank did
not have enough experience in project implementation in Iran. It should also be noted that some of the
supervision missions were not adequately staffed with family planning and project implementation
specialists to help the implementing agency of the borrower to timely address implementation issues within
the Bank operational guidelines and procedures and to build capacity in the country. During this period the
Bank was much less proactive than initially and during the last three years of supervision. It was not until
the last three years of the project that supervision missions were well staffed to better address
implementation issues. In addition, no midterm-review mission was fielded and there were only limited field
visits undertaken. It should also be noted, that during part of the supervision of the this project the Bank
concentrated its efforts on the sector policy dialogue in order to design the second health project. This is
one of the reasons why the implementation aspects in family planning, primary health care network, and
health care financing of the project were neglected. Another observation is that in general the Bank
neglected the software aspects of this project because of the many problems faced with the hardware
components, especially the construction of the RHCs and the NPMC.In addition, communications with the
PIU were quite difficult because the Bank team did not have a Farsi speaker in the team for the first five
years of implementation and because the Bank did not insist enough on a PIU team with a very good
command of English.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:.
Overall, Bank performance is considered unsatisfactory. This project was eventually only partially
implemented. Even though the project preparation has been carried out satisfactorily, the supervision of this
project needed to be much more intensive. Supervision budgets were insufficient given the complex
institutional environment and the endeavor to implement a large project in a country the Bank has very
little experience. However, it should be added that both Bank management and staff were very responsive
in giving good quality sector advise and in providing assistance to resolve project implementation issues on
a timely manner. It should be noted that the Bank considerably furthered the dialogue in the health
sector on a constant basis during the supervision of this project and was able to provide the GOI
with state of the art support in the fields of National Health Accounts (NHA), health sector
reform in general, and specifically health financing reform.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower provided the Bank with adequate support and cooperation during project preparation and
expressed interest in the technical and financial assistance of the Bank. However, the Borrower's
- 13 -



unfamiliarity with Bank operational guidelines and procedures presented real difficulties in the preparation
and implementation of the project. The Bank had to base the program of Rural Health Centers on
information developed by the Borrower, which the Bank had to accept with limited review. A thorough and
comprehensive needs assessment was not carried out to review the "health master plan" prior to embarking
on a major health centers construction program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govemment implementation was less than satisfactory due to institutional changes and budgetary
constraints which limited availability of counterpart funds. The Govemment's cumbersome administrative
procedures combined with lack of familiarity with Bank policies and procedures resulted in protracted
project implementation. It should be noted that the project implementation unit created by the concemed
sector ministry was changed several times. It started as a semi-autonomous unit, then after a few years it
was integrated within the projects development department of the ministry, and then in the last three years it
was run as a semi-autonomous unit. However, whichever structure it had, there was a lack of
communication between the implementing unit and the MOHME policy maker and the PIU was de facto
often completely separated from the policy makers.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Also, the performance of the unit was greatly affected by the high staff turn over both of the PIU
management and technical experts. The managers appointed to run the unit were generally weak managers,
which resulted in serious implementation issues that hindered project completion. Except or a short period
of time there was not enough capacity in the PIU to deal with the policy/software aspects of the project.
Also, there was a disconnect in the relationship between the PIU and concemed departments of the Ministry
of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Management and Planning Organization on the one side, and
between the PIU and the regional universities on the other side.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the borrower was unsatisfactory. It should be noted, however, that the
Government always cooperated with the Bank in the efforts to address issues. However, the unfamiliarity
with Bank policies, guidelines and procedures, and conflicts between these conditions and Iranian laws and
administrative procedures, obstructed senior Government officials to take timely actions to expedite project
implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
Before entering the lessons learned section it is important to step back and look at the project. Looking at
the project one could think of two separate projects: first, the highly successful family planning (FP) project
that achieved its objectives with a small investment and second, the primary health care (PHC) project that
did not achieve its objectives with a much larger investment. Here the question arises of how this happened.
The analysis leads to the conclusion that the main differences between the two "projects" were the
following:
I. The FP project enjoyed a very careful design and a lot of policy discussions and advise from the Bank. A
extensive paper was produced and many workshops were held. The team that designed the project looked
very carefully into the institutional arrangements of the FP program in Iran and tried to design a project
that fitted the needs and that could be implemented given the institutions. In addition, FP enjoyed high
visibility and support from all important political and religious players in the country. In short, there was
strong ownership on the part of the client.
2. The PHC project on the other side was very ambitious. The Govemment and the Bank tried to keep the
- 14 -



design of this project simple. However, given the inexperience of the implementing agency in executing
Bank projects and the Bank's relative inexperience in the health sector in Iran, the project should have been
designed to be even less complex. This is especially true for the large civil works sub-component for which
the project had to rely on the capacity at the local level for a considerable investment over a wide
geographical area with vastly different climatic conditions. Given the short time of project preparation and
the lack of knowledge of local conditions in Iran in this sector, it was impossible for the team to truly cany
out an institutional assessment (local and national level capacity and institutional interplay and rules and
regulations). However, the ICR concludes that it is the institutional assessment that would have been
crucial for the design of this component and that could have changed the outcome of this project.
The lessons learned from this project are divided into broad lessons and more implementation specific
lessons:
1. Broad Lessons Learned
*   Rigorous sector analysis is a prerequisite for any activity in a country where the Bank has only
little knowledge in a particular sector. An up to date sector analysis for Iran has not yet been
preformed. This analysis should look at all aspects of the sector including: health outcomes,
delivery system, financing and insurance system, the public health system, the pharmaceutical
sector, etc.
*   Rigorous institutional and capacity analysis at all levels of implementation are a prerequisite
for any activity in a country where the Bank has only little knowledge in any of the sectors. This is
a critical piece of knowledge that helps understand how a country "works". For this project this
analysis was not done which led to a learning by doing mode that hindered the effective
implementation of the project.
*   WiDingness to invest adequate resources in a country/client that has very little experience with
the Bank. The Bank should have invested more in supporting the counterpart and build capacity.
For example, after the two year delay in implementation a second official project launch should
have been done. In addition, more supervision missions and higher supervision budgets were
needed (if not actually having a person in the field) to better guide and assist the client.
2. Specific Lessons Learned:
*   Involve all key partners in project preparation: It is very important to involve all partners of the
Govenmment in the preparation process of the project. Not involving MPO did cost the project two
years, in which the momentum for the implementation was lost.
*   Develop a sound and "living" Project Implementation Plan owned by the borrower for each
component while building capacity of counterpart staff who will be concemed with project
execution on Bank policies, procedures and guidelines. In addition, PIU staff must be connected to
the policy makers and the departments in the Ministry and MPO. Although a Project
Implementation Plan existed in the beginning of the project, it was lost and forgotten after a few
years into the implementation.
*   Develop a sound system for Monitoring and Evaluation: Identify specific activities and allocate
resources to them for monitoring and evaluation during project preparation. Data collection and
analysis is not trivial and requires a substantial effort and resources.
- 15 -



*   Implementation arrangements: Avoid frequent staff and organizational changes in the
implementing agency and in the Bank.
*   Strengthen the Maintenance Capacity: A project that invests so heavily in construction should
have a clear operations and maintenance plan,developed during project preparation which involves
financial resources and their source.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The final project completion report by the MOHME contains over 700 pages and can be made available
upon request. Below the ICR quotes the Key lessons leamed from the report:
"With regard to the problems at the beginning of the project and non existence of the necessary
coordination and agreement between the involved bodies and organizations, we would suggest that before
implementation stage the necessary coordination and agreements should be made among the Ministries,
Management and Planning Organization, parliament, Central Bank, and other organizations.
Due to the problems mentioned above regarding the implementation arrangements and necessary skills and
qualifications of the people involved in the project, we strongly advise that the PIU manager and key staff
should be trained in different skills such as management, planning, fnancial, and procurement issues.
It is recommended that the Controller of the project will familiar with the World Bank procedures and
guidelines through Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance.
One of the most important difficulties of the project during the implementation stage was the problem of
policy and decision making on implementation arrangements therefore we suggest that a qualified
consultant should be recruited to give necessary services during the identification, preparation and
implementation stages and approve the decisions on the different stages. This Consultant should monitor
the project and give necessary advises and recommendation to the project manager. Also the consultant of
the project should have necessary management strengthening and should represent the full analysis and
studies in this field.
It is recommended that the World Bank should establish a regional office in Tehran or in the near countries
to minimize the time and working days differences and also facilitate the supervision mission to achieve a
better coordination between PIU and the World Bank.
We strongly suggest that a coordination and supervision committee should be formed with participation of
the relevant officials of the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Economic affairs, Finance and Management
and Planning Organization, Controller of the budget. During the monthly session, this committee should
monitor the progress of the project, make necessary decisions and policy and remove the problems and
obstacles of the project.
It seems that one of the main reasons of the delays occurred in the project and failure of some components
was related to the discrepancies of the World Bank regulations and Iranian laws and regulations. Based on
our proposal, the appropriate solutions should be approved for these discrepancies and the expenditures
under the project should be considered out of Governmental codes and laws in public procurement.
With regard to the importance of the PIU in successful implementation of the project and the level of
- 16 -



qualification of the key staff required for different tasks, it seems that the necessary stimulant are
necessary. In first step, we suggest that level of the payment and salaries should be attractive for the said
staff and the other facilities such as training courses and loans etc. should be provided for them.
As the PIU manager works at the level differ from the internal organizational structure of MOHME, which
needs the necessary information about the international relations, the World Bank regulations and so on,
specially in decision making and even in administrative and financial affairs, it seems the personal of
MOHME who are in connection with such projects, should have been qualified. For example, employing
the professional personnel and training courses and seminars in above-mentioned subjects will be
recommended.
(b) CoJinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of pertinent project documents can be found in Annex 7.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatoriMatx                     Projected In last PSR ''    T-ae                  Esime-
Outcome indictors were identified during the
appraisal but they were too broad. They were
changed when the specific development
objectives were introduced. However, the key
indicators introduced at that time are a mix of
outcome and output indicators. The ICR tries
to split the outcomne from the output
indicators- In addton, there was no M&E
system in place to undertake data collecion
and analysis for all indicators. Therefore the
matrix remains incomplete.
Health indicators in the areas covered by the                              No baseline established and no data
project                                                                    collected in the targeted areas.
Utilization rates of RHCs by service                                       No conclusive results from health facility
survey.
Greater contraceptive method mix                                             See table page 7
Output Indicators:
I  Indicator/MatrIxe                  ProJected In last PSR                ActualYLatest Estimate
Physical progress of civil works by lots of                                See Annex 7a.
Rural Health Centers (RHC)
Number of equipped newly-constructed                                       Originally planned: 623; actual: 216
RHCs
Number of RHCs that are open to the public                                  Originally planned: 623; actual: 154
Population covered by RHCs                                                 no data collected
Physical progress in the construction of the                               The construction was finished in December
Naional PHC Management Center (NPMC)                                       2000.
Number of people trained in management of                                   Eleven short courses were held for 40
health care facilities                                                     physicians, 280 health managers and 240
managers and researchers.
Progress in adapting the software                                           Software was only tested but never adapted
and rolled out
Number of people trained in FP management                                   no data collected
Health care financing study completed                                       Only first part of the study was completed.
Set of health care financing options under                                 This was never undertaken.
consideration by Govemment.
End of project
-18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
* . .              Appralsal   ActualLatest   Percentage of
.  -:  :   | ;     Estimate   . Estimate       Appralsal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
A. SERVICE DELIVERY
1. Primary Health Care Network                  208.80         274.44          1.314
2. Health Management Development                  6.50           5.97          0.919
B. FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
1. Contraceptive Options                         19.47           2.89         0.149
2. Management Strengthening                       7.41           0.63          0.085
3. IEC                                            8.01           0.07         0.008
4. Evaluation and Research                        1.51           0.01         0.004
C. HEALTH FINANCING STUDY                           0.47           0.08           0.16
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                      2.12           0.02          0.009
Total Baseline Cost                                254.29        284.11
Physical Contingencies                             13.20
Price Contingencies                               27.20                         0.964
Total Project Costs           294.69         284.11
Total Financing Required            294.69         284.11
* Total project costs include contingencies.
Al & A2 - Amounts indicated are for civil works contracts signed before loan closing.
However, some contracts are still ongoing and will be completed under Government funds.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E-enIr CProcurement Method'
ExpenditureCategory'     ICB          -NCB       - O            N.B.F.     Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~O th er_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                    73.00         48.50         0.00         0.00       121.50
(39.50)      (26.30)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (65.80)
2. Goods                    31.60         0.00         40.50        26.60        98.70
(31.60)       (0.00)      (40.50)       (0.00)      (72.10)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         13.00         0.00        13.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.50)       (0.00)      (3.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00        60.80        60.80
Incremental Operating       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Costs                                              ___
Total                     104.60       48.50         53.50        87.40       294.00
(71.10)       (26.30)      (44.00)      (0.00)      (141.40)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.  :  ,  -.:  ;-, - IProcurement Methodc  .
Expendture Category      ICB                       Other        N.BF.     Total Cost
1. Works                    206.76        11.96        59.92   l               278.64
19-



()             0           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        3.39          0.00           0.79                       4.18
(3.39)         (0.00)        (0.72)        (0.00)        (4.11)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           0.81                       0.81
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.81)        (0.00)        (0.81)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.65          0.00          0.65
Incremental Operating          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)        (0.00)        (0.60)
Costs__                                                     _ _   _ _
Total                       210.15         11.96         62.17          0.00         284.28
(3.39)         (0.00)        (2.13)        (0.00)        (5.52)
* All figures have been rounded.
Data is based on disbursement applications received by June 10, 2002
2 disbursement applications for works are pending, final numbers will be integrated by June 25, 2002.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Ilncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.             .                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentg OApraisal
[ecntage orAp
Component              Appraisal Estimate          ActualLatest Estimate                 p
Bank      Govt      CoF.      Bank      Govt      CoF.    Bank   Govt. -CoF.
A. Service Delivery     105.60    109.70              95.91     184.50             90.8   168.2
1. Primary Health Care  101.60    107.20              93.14     181.29             91.7   169.1
Network
2. Health Management     4.00      2.50                2.77      3.21              69.3   128.4
Development
B. Family Planning       16.60     19.10               3.53      0.07              21.3    0.4
Program
1. Contraceptive Option  12.90     6.30                2.89      0.00              22.4    0.0
2. Management            2.90      4.40                0.63      0.00              21.7    0.0
Strengthening
3. tEC                   0.10      7.60                0.00      0.07               0.0    0.9
4. Evaluation and Research  0.70   0.80                0.01      0.00               1.4    0.0
C. Health Financing Study  0.40    0.00                0.08      0.00              20.0    0.0
D. Project               0.40      1.70                0.02      0.00               5.0    0.0
Implementation Unit
Total Baseline Cost     123.00    130.50              99.53     184.57             80.9   141.4
This Annex will be completed by June 15, 2002. Disbursment is still ongoing for works delivered prior to
loan closing.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic or financial analysis was conducted during project preparation. The project involved the
construction of health facilities in 14 provinces. One would have expected increased maintenance costs for
the primary health care network. The ICR mission could not determine if increases in the budgetary
allocations have been made. From evidence in the field and some discussions with MOHME officials, this
appears not to have been the case.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    lmplementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1992                    2   Economist, Demographer
October 1992                 3   Economist/Mission Leader,
Health Specialist, Demographer
January 1993                 6   Economist /Mission Leader,
Public Health Specialist,
Demographer, Information
Technology Specialist, Architect,
Sr. Procurement Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
July 1993                    4   Mission Leader, Sr.                S             S
Demographer, Procurement
Adviser, Sr. Disbrusement
Officer
November 1993                2                                      S             S
February 1994                                                       S             S
October 1994                 2   Implementation Specialist,         U             S
Economist
April 1995                   3   Implementation Specialist,         U             S
Health Specialist, Demographer
December 1995                3   Implementation Specialist,         U             S
Health Specialist, Population
Specialist
June 1996                    2   Implementation Specialist,         U             S
Health Specialist
November 1996               na   na                                 S             S
February 1998                4   2 Health Specialists,              S             S
Implementation Specialist,
Director
September 1998               3   Task Team Leader/Health            S             S
Specialist, Implementation
Specialist/Architect, Health
Finance Specilist
February 1999                6   Task Team Leader/Health            S             S
Specialist, Nutrition Specialist,
Hospital Administration
Specialist, Health Economist,
Implementation
Specialist/Architect, Financial
Management Specialist
May 1999                     4   Task Team Leader/Health            S             S
Specialist, Implementation
-22 -



Specialist, Nutrition Specialist,
Procurement Assistant
October 1999                 4   Health Sector Manager; Task        U             S
Team Leader/Health Specialist,
Health Specialist, Porfolio
Manager
April 2000                   1   Portfolio Manager                  S             S
January 2001                 7   Health Sector Manager, Health      U             S
Specialist, Porfolio Manager,
Lead Financial Management
Specialist, Nutrition Specialist,
Financial Specialist, Sr. Health
Specialist
June 2001                    6   Human Devel6pment Director,        U
Health Sector Manager, Mission
Leader, Sr. Health Specialist,
Consultant, Operations Analyst
ICR
01/26/2002                   4    Task Team Leader, Health          U             U
Specialist, LOO, Program
Assistant
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                         nl/a
Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a                         n/a
Supervision                               n/a                         n/a
ICR                                       n/a                          25
Total                                     n/a                         909
Source: World Bank Accounting System (SAP- Information System - General Reports -AIS/AUS/APS - Project details at a
glance - Part 2
n/a = data not available
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
Z Physical                                O H  O SU * M    ON    O NA
WE Financial                              O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU* M     0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                          O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H   O SU * M    O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H   (O SU 0 M   O N  * NA
Ol Other (Please specify)          0 H   O SU O M    O N  O NA
El Private sector development             0 H  O SU 0 M    0 N   * NA
EJ Public sector management               0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  O SU O M    O N   O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
* Lending                                           OHS OS O U O HU
EZ Supervision                                      OHS OS       *U     OiHU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS       *U     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OD HS OS     O U    O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     * U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       * U    O HU
ZI Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I.Aide-Memoire and Back-To-Office Report for ICR Mission, February 2002
2. Borrower's contribution to ICR
3. Tables of physical progress of civil works
The following documents and information pertaining to the Primary Health Care and Family Planning
Project are available:
*   Memorandum of the President
*   Loan Agreement
*   Back-to-Office-Reports
*   Project Supervision Reports
* The project completion report of the Government of Iran
*   Various Project Progress Reports
-26 -



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                       650
>ti ' C) fJ-V ~~~~~~~~~TURKMENISTAN
l  f ;4ZAR&4tEI\_ |   Caspian                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
v , ,  ). tt   Sea         _                   V               OF IRAN
rm                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND
< s, . ,>>Ra<_                                                tn {ffiJ >     ',   t '~' s.' a  SFAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
-'Mashhad     C    PROJECT PROVINCES
x r       A ~ZAN-JAN ..      MANZANDARAN W  
-    RIVERS/LAKES
Semnandaj( 5 h~ )  - (   vs   SEMNAN   /   ;   -:  ;   '  ;   111 11"|;1 SEASONAL LAKES/  35-
nandai             SEMNAN                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FLOODED AREAS
_35 t)HrJmudA D                                                           / * ' ' D S PROVINCE CAPITALS
2 AN y MARKAZI         KHORASAN                        @          NATIONAL CAPITAL
J Bakhoran \> . 51Arak C 
A A         J =                                                                                  VPROVINCEBOUNDARIES
IRAQ  sLAMo>m       Q R  6ISFAHAN
X  Xt ~~~~~t ~Isfahan             ~       \, 
\s \ 71 ) Shoha r-\9 Yazd pF;iS\}JE
Nw )?;+SsX YAZD % C - ' > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50                   100  150  200
6 f=~~^. ffss,s  |  usAhwaz  4 >\d_  )   \   } e - .:  %  s ;\wit;  - 3~~~~~~ ;>2;-/ 0  100  20020 300
;ff-2;.;i 1 J - i;} * s \ ~ * - Kern ai 1\vge 1 ,/AFGHANISTAN
_  * --    /K  W  2 0. Ind  rt 1                               Kerman,  ,  .;.j 41 p   , , 
F           - , SA> A>ZAKHSTAN  Bushehr%UHH\ > 
S-      5x      N    >                SHEHRv                                            ,SSBHE~VAN     \    PKSA
U  ^KISTAN            SA j BAHMIN                            s4 WN                                     PAKISTJN
, wfo'ARtMNU_; _ f r m









IMAGING
Report No.:        24313
Type:     ICR



