Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3584 IRN
Loan Agreement
(Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3584 IRN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1993, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. The General 
Page  2
Conditions shall apply to this Agreement to the extent that the provisions thereof are 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOHME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Medical Education;
 
(b)
"RHC" means a Rural Health Center to be established under Part A (1) of 
the Project;
(c)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established by MOHME 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
"NPMC" means the National Primary Health Care Management Center, to be 
established under Part A (3) of the Project; 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Area" means the areas wherein construction of RHCs under Part A 
of the Project shall be undertaken, namely, the Provinces of Khorasan, 
Sistan/Baluchestan, Kerman, Hormazgan, Fars, Khuzestan, Hamadan, Kordestan, Zanjan, 
Tehran, Manzandaran, East Azarbayejan, West Azarbayejan and Lorestan; and
(g)
"Action Plan" means the Action Plan for the Project, referred to in 
paragraph (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred forty-one million four 
hundred thousand dollars ($141,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay a commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay the commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Commission Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Commission 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Commission Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Commission Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay commission on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay the commission accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Commission Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Commission Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Commission and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through
MOHME with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public 
health, engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
Page  4
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. The Borrower, acting through MOHME shall ensure the allocation of 
all such resources as shall be required for the proper staffing, operation, and 
maintenance of the facilities and equipment included in Parts A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Nasser Khosrow Avenue
Tehran, Iran
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC 
212838 MEFIR
   AFFAIRS AND FINANCE
Tehran
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Mohamad Khazaee
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     65,800,000        54%
(2) Equipment                 39,600,000        100% of foreign
    and vehicles                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(3) Spare parts and           21,100,000        100% of foreign
    supplies                                    expenditures
(4) Contraceptives            11,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(5) Consultants'               3,500,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training
                             ___________
         TOTAL               141,400,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve (a) the system for delivery of 
health services and (b) the effectiveness of the Borrower's family planning program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Primary Health Care
 
Page  7
(1)
Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing of 623 RHCs, including 28 with 
maternity facilities, in the Project Area.
(2)
Construction, equipping and furnishing of a National Primary Health Care 
Management Center (NPMC), as a facility for training health personnel in management 
and administration and in topics
related to the delivery of health and family planning services.
(3)
Establishment of a national health management information system.
 
Part B:
National Family Planning Program
 
Assistance for the implementation of MOHME's National Family Planning Program, 
comprising:
(1)
diversification of available contraceptive options through the provision of 
several modern contraceptives;
(2)
strengthening of MOHME's Central Population and Family Planning Department and 
its family planning services in provinces in the Project Area through: (a) the 
assignment of additional staff,
(b) the training of staff, and (c) the provision of operational and transport 
equipment;
(3)
assistance for MOHME's efforts for informing and educating the public on aspects 
of family planning, including: (a) production of materials, particularly on new 
contraceptive options, (b) advertising in mass media, (c) sponsorship of seminars and 
workshops among influential groups, and (d) studies to evaluate the effectiveness of 
such efforts; and
(4)
undertaking, under the auspices of an Evaluation Committee to be established 
within MOHME, of demographic and health surveys and of research on the effectiveness 
of aspects of the family planning program, including studies of local production of 
contraceptives and the establishment of a Human Reproduction Center.
Part C:
Study
 
Carrying out of a study of health care financing.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1998
through December 15, 2009 
5,890,000
 
On June 15, 2010
5,930,000
 
Page  8
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment  
Premium
 
The commission rate expressed
as a percentage per annum -
(see Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred 
to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original 
bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week 
of delay by two  redisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be 
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
Page  9
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid 
evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Islamic Republic of Iran may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Specialized medical equipment, estimated in the aggregate to cost the equivalent 
of not more than $8,000,000, and contraceptives, which the Borrower and the Bank agree 
are available from a limited number of suppliers and which are estimated in the 
aggregate to cost the equivalent of not more than $7,600,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least five qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.58 thereof).
2.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $1,000,000 per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Contraceptives which the Borrower and the Bank agree are available only from one 
source of supply and which are estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$3,800,000, and spare parts and other proprietary items for operation and maintenance, 
may be procured under contracts to be concluded between the Borrower and the suppliers 
thereof on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost not more than the equivalent 
of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from 
a list of at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible 
under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
Page  10
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B (3) and (4) and C of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
(1)
MOHME shall exercise its responsibility for overall management of the Project 
through the office of its Deputy Minister for Health Affairs.
(2)
MOHME shall establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) by June 1, 1993, 
consisting of a properly qualified and experienced project manager, project engineer, 
financial officer and an adequate number of technical and support staff. The PIU shall 
be responsible for: (a) coordination of the construction of facilities and of other 
activities under the Project, (b) preparation and furnishing to the Bank of annual 
work programs under the Project, (c) provision of assistance to provinces in the 
Project Area in the construction of RHCs under Part A of the Project, (d) preparation 
of procurement documents for use in the carrying out of the Project, (e) supervision 
of procurement activities, (f) maintenance of Project accounts and arranging for the 
audit thereof, and (g) preparation of the progress reports and arranging for the 
Project mid-term review, referred to in paragraph (5) of this Schedule.
(3)
MOHME shall carry out the Project and related outreach activities in accordance 
with an Action Plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank. The Action Plan 
shall include inter alia: (a) a time-schedule for carrying out construction, staffing, 
and training under the Project, as well as for related outreach services, including 
health houses, (b) the terms of reference for
carrying out (i) the studies of local production of contraceptives and the 
establishment of a Human Reproduction Center included in Part B (4) of the Project, 
and (ii) the health care financing study
included in Part C of the Project, and a time-schedule for the completion of the 
former by June 30, 1995, and of the latter by December 31, 1994, (c) estimates of the 
resource requirements for
activities included in the Project, as well as for related outreach services, and (d) 
the procurement schedules and procedures to be followed. The Action Plan, as it shall 
be reviewed annually by the Borrower and the Bank and as modified accordingly from 
time to time, shall form the basis for the preparation of the annual work program 
referred to in paragraph (2)(b) of this Schedule.
(4)
MOHME shall furnish to and discuss with the Bank the reports containing the 
findings and recommendations of the studies included in Parts B (4) and C of the 
Project promptly upon the completion thereof, with a view to agreeing on the actions 
required for implementing such recommendations.
Page  11
(5)
MOHME shall: (a) prepare, through PIU, and furnish to the Bank, semi-annual 
reports on progress in the carrying out of the Project, and (b) undertake jointly with 
the Bank, by June 30, 1996, on the basis of a report to be prepared by MOHME and to be 
furnished to the Bank by April 15, 1996, or such other date as the Bank may agree, a 
mid-term review of the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
