Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17312-KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
April 3, 1998
Rural Development and Environment
Europe and Central Asia Region



CIIRRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(January 1998)
Currency Unit         Som
US$1          17.5 Som
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACSPP   -  Agency for Chemical Supply and Plant Protection
ALRF   -  Agricultural Land Redistribution Fund
ASSP   -  Agricultural Support Services Project
ATAS   -  Agricultural Training and Advisory Services
CLAR   -  Center for Land and Agrarian Reform (oblast/rayon level)
CNFA   -  Citizen's Network for Foreign Affairs
CRI  -  Crop Research Institute (Agrarian Academy)
FPRI  -  Forage and Pasture Research Institute (Agrarian Academy)
GoKR   -  Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
GTZ   -  Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German)
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM    -  Integrated Pest Management
KAFC   -  Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
KH-F   -  British Know How Fund
KS   -  Kyrgyz Standard
MAWR   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MOFE   -  Ministry of Finance and Economy
MIS   -  Agricultural Market Information System
NLF   -  National Land Fund
NMC   -  National Management Committee for MIS
NSA   -  National Seed Association
NPOZ   -  Industrial Association for Crop Research
NSC   -  National Statistical Committee
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PSC   -  Project Steering Committee
RADC   -  Rural Advisory and Development Center
RADS   -  Rural Advisory and Development Services
RASC   -  Rural Advisory Steering Council
RCLAR   -  Republican Center for Land and Agrarian Reform
SDAP   -  State Department of Anti-Monopoly Policy
SDP   -  Sheep Development Project
SFCOP   -  Small Fanner Credit Outreach Program
SIPQ   -  State Inspectorate of Plant Quarantine
SALMLR   -  State Agency for Land Management and Land Resources
TACIS   -  Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
Vice President:       Johannes F. Limn, ECAVP
Country Director:     Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director:      Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE; Sector Leader: Joseph Goldberg, ECSRE
Responsible Staff.    Ramesh Deshpande, ECSPF (Team Leader)
Peer Reviewers:       Jitendra Srivastava, Severin Kodderitzsch, and Tjaart Schillhom-Van Veen (ECSRE)
Appraisal Mvissions:    The IDA post-appraisal mission (November 1997) included: R. Deshpande (Mission Leader), J. Srivastava (Principal
Agriculturist), J. Cole and R.Selvaratnam (Consultants), and D. Djoldsheva (Operations Officer). The IDA appraisal mission (June 1991)
included: J. Cole (Mission Leader) ), R. Deshpande (Principal Financial Operations Officer), F. Dauphin (Agronomist); B. Villerette (Agricultural
Economist); P. Dickie (Seed Specialist); M. Childress (Land Tenure Specialist); R. Selvaratnam (Consultant); and Ms. S. Abdysheva (Operations
Officer). The IFAD's post-formulation and appraisal missions coincided with IDA appraisal and post-appraisal missions.



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/ R98-44[SAR]/1
FROM: The Secretary                                         April 21,1998
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - Agricultural Support Services Project
Staff Appraisal Report
(Corrigendum)
Attached are Tables 4,5 (pp. 1 & 2) and 6 of Annex C which were inadvertently omitted
from the Staff Appraisal Report regarding a proposed credit to the Kyrgyz Republic for an
Agricultural Support Services Project (IDA/R98&44[SARI distributed on April 16,1998).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restnrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



t,



Annex C
Table 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Agricultural Support Services Project
Estimated Disbursement Profile
(US$ million)
Disbursements                          Profile %
Bank Fiscal Year        By Quarter      Cumulative            Agriculture Projects
and Quarter         (USS million)     (US$ million)  ASSP   in ECA region
1999
1                       0.5               0.5    3.3            4.5
2                       0.5               1.0    6.7            6.0
3                       0.5               1.5   10.0            10.0
4                       0.5               2.0   13.3            14.0
2000
1                       0.5               2.5   16.7           20.0
2                       0.5               3.0   20.0           26.0
3                       0.6               3.6   24.0           30.0
4                       0.6               4.2   28.0           34.0
2001
1                       0.7               4.9   32.7            38
2                       0.7               5.6   37.3            42
3                       0.8               6.4   42.7            48
4                       0.8               7.2   48.0            54
2002
1                       1.0               8.2   54.7            60
2                       1.0               9.2   61.3            66
3                       1.0              10.2   68.0            72
4                       1.0              11.2   74.7            78
2003
1                       1.0              12.2   81.3            82
2                       1.0              13.2   88.0            86
3                       0.5              13.7   91.3            90
4                       0.5              14.2   94.7            94
2004
1                       0.5              14.7   98.0            100
2                       0.3              15.0  100.0            106
figures may differ slightly due to rounding. SDR amount is equivalent of US$14.98 million.



I



Annex C
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
Proposed Supervision Plan and Schedule for the ASSP Project
Approximate    Activity                    Expected skill Requirement               Staff
Date of Input                                                                       Weeksl
(mo/yr.)
June 98        Supervision Mission         Task Manager                             20
(Project Launch)           Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Procurement Specialist
Dec 98         Supervision Mission         Task Manager                             20
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management ! Disbursement Spec.
May 99         Supervision Mission         Task Manager                             20
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Procurement Specialist
Dec 99         Supervision Mission         Task Manager                             20
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
(continued)



Annex C
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
Approximate    Activity                   Expected skill Requirements              Staff
Date of Input                                                                      Weeks
June 2000      Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             20
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Procurement Specialist
Dec. 2000      Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             15
(Mid-term review)         Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
May 2001       Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             15
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Procurement Specialist
Dec. 2001      Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             15
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management ! Disbursement Spec.
May 2002       Supervision                Task Manager                             15
Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Procurement Specialist
Dec. 2002      Supervision                Task Manager                             20
(ICR Preparation)         Extension Specialist
Agriculturist / Seed Specialist
Financial Management / Disbursement Spec.
Includes desk work at headquarters in Washington



Annex C
Table 6
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Technical Assistance
A List of TORs in the Implementation File
Component                                          TORs for
A.   Land and Agrarian Reform                    1. Land and Agrarian Reform Specialist
2. Land Law Specialist
3. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
4. Land Auction and Leasing Specialist
5. Training Specialist
6. Public Information Specialist
B.   Rural Advisory and Development Services     1. Local RADC Managers, Farm Mang. Specialist
2. RADS General Manager (local)
3. Extension Specialist
4. Training Specialist
5. Farm Development Fund Specialist
6. Farm Group Development Fund Specialist
C.   Seed Industry Development                   1. Seed Specialist
2. Plant Breeding Specialist
3. Seed Certification Specialist
4. Variety Testing Specialist
D.   Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine        1. Pesticide Specialist
2. IPM Expert
3. Legal Specialist
E.   Agriculture Market Information System       1. Market Information System Specialist
2. Market Analysts for National Statistical Committee
(local support)
3 Market Analysts for Department of Anti-Monopoly
4. Specialists in Grades and Standards
F.   Project Implementation Unit                 1. National Project Director
2. Project Implementation Advisor
3. Procurement Specialist (National)
4. Disbursement Specialist (National)



I



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Contents
1. BACKGROUND ..............................................................,1I
A. PROJEC'T' BACKGROUND                         .I
B. AGRICULTURE SICTOR                           .I
C. BANK GROUP SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE IN T-IE KYRGYz REPUBLIC     .3
2. ISSUES IN AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES                     .5
A. LAND AND AGRARIAN REFORM                        .5
B. RURAL ADVISORY SERVICES                        .9
C. SEED PRODUCTION .1
D. CROP PROTECTION .13................................................. ......3
E. AGRICULTURAL MARKET INFORMATION .14
3. THE PROJECT .15
A. PRO.ICT OBJECTIVES .15
B. StUMMARY DESCRIPTION .15
C. DETAIIED FEATURES                         .15
D. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES .24
E. PROJECT FINANCING .25
F. STATUS OF PROJECT PREIPARATION .26
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .28
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .28
B. PROCUREMEN'T ARRANGEMENTS .37
C. DISI3URSEMENTS .42
D. ACCOUNTS ANI) AUm'I .43
E. SUPI.RVISION AND MONI'I'ORING .44
F. COORDINATION WITI I OI lIE.R PROJEICTS .44
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .45
A. BENi.F.ITS .45
B. FINANCIAL, ANI) ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .46
C. PROJEC T SUSTAINABILITY3.l                                              50
D. POVERTY IMI'AC."I                                                      53
E. ENVIRONMENIAI. IMIAC'T .53
F. PROJE.CT RISKS ANI) MITIGATION MEASURES .54
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .56



- ii -
ANNEXES
A - Project Design Summary
B.- Detailed Project Costs Estimates
C - Project Implementationi Plan
D- Financial and Economic Analysis
TABLES
Table  1.1  Rural Population and Agricultural Lanid by Oblasts .......................................................2
Table 2.1  Progress in Land Reform  ................................................................................5
Table 2.2  Farmer Groups in Donor-Assisted Pilot Projects .......................................................... 10
Table 3.1  Summary of Project Costs ...............................................................................                    25
Table 3.2  Financing of Technical Assistance and Training .......................................................... 26
Table 3.3  Summary of Financing Plan ...............................................................................                    27
Table 4.1  Project limplementing Agencies ................................................................................   28
Table 4.2  Summary of Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................... 40
Table 4.3  Summary of Procurement Information .......................................................................... 41
Table 5.1 Summary of Yields and Gross Margins of Major Crops With Existing and Improved
Technology ................................................................................. 47
Table 5.2  Farm  Models - Area, Returns and Credit ...................................................................... 47
Table 5.3  Household Models ...............................................................................                            48
Table 5.4  Sensitivity Analysis: Switching Values ......................................................................... 50
Table 5.5  Sensitivity Analysis: Changes in Project Cost and Benefits (Economic) .......... .                                 .......... 50
Table 5.6  Incremental Income and Service Costs per Household (HH)............................ .......  51
FIGURES
Figure  1.1 -RADS: Conceptual Design ........................................................................                          18
Figure 1.2 -Project Organization and Management ................................... .................................... 29
Figure  1.3 -Organization of Rural Advisory and Development Service (RADS) . ........................ 32
Figure  1.4 -Organization of Rural Advisory and Development Centers (RADCs) . ...................... 33
MAP IBRD 28979
TECHNICAL ANNEXES IN IMPLEMENTATION FILE
I.         Land and Agrarian Reforn (Farn Restructuring Support)
2.         Agricultural Advisory and Development Services
3.         Seed Development
4.         Regulatory Services in Plant Protection and Pesticide Use
5.         Agricultural Techniology
6.         Agricultural Market Information System
7.         Financial and Economic Analysis
8.         Project Cost Estimates (Detail Tables)
9.         Technical Assistance and Training: Terms of Reference
10.    Five-Year Procurement Plan



-iii-
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT (ASSP)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency:        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)
Beneficiaries:             MAWR and its associate entities; State Agency for Land Management
and Land Resources; Participating enterprises and farms.
Project Objective:         Improve incentive framework for, and productivity, profitability and
sustainability of Kyrgyz agriculture by: implementing land and agrarian
reforms; providing emerging private farmers with advisory and
development  services  (including  micro-credit);  seed  industry
development; establishing legal framework, organizations and
procedures for crop protection and plant quarantine; establishing
agricultural marketing system; and capacity building in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR).
Poverty:                    In the rural sector, the proportion of households in poverty is over 50
percent of the total. The project's focus on increasing agricultural
productivity is critical to increase rural incomes and alleviate rural
poverty.
Amount:                     SDR 11.1 million (US$14.98 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, including 10 years grace.
Commitment Fee:            0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Project Financing:          Total project costs are estimated at US$30.2 million.  IDA would
finance about US$15 million, or 49.7 percent of the total project costs,
and 74.9 percent of foreign exchange part of the total project costs.
IFAD would co-finanice the project up to US$7.9 million or about 26.2
percent of the total project costs, to support the Rural Advisory and
Development Services (RADS) component. Bilateral donors would
contribute about US$2.1 million or 6.9 percent of the total project costs.
IDA and IFAD-assisted SDP would provide US$1.8 million or 6 percent
of the total project costs to finance rural advisory and development
services to be taken over by the project.



-iv-
Governmenit would contribute US$2.2 million, or about 7.1 percent of
the total project costs. Beneficiaries' contributioni would be about
US$1.2 million or 4.1 percent of the total project costs.
Fiancin2g Plan:
Fintancinig Source                          Local        Foreign           Total      % of total
project costs
IDA                                           3.0            12.0           15.0            49.7
IFAD                                          2.5             5.4            7.9           26.2
Sheep Development Project 1/                  1.1             0.7            1.8             6.0
Bilateral Donors                              0.9             1.2            2.1             6.9
Governmeit                                    2.0             0.2            2.2             7.1
Beneficiaries                                 0.7             0.5            1.2             4.1
Total                               10.2           20.0            30.2           100.0
Percent of Total                             33.7           66.3           100.0
Note: Vigures may slightly vary due to rounding.
1 /    Livestock advisory services financed by IFAD under the Sheep Development Project (SDP) will be merged
with ASSP's rural advisory and development services (RADS) which will be co-financed by IFAD.
Economic Rate of Return: 20 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       17312-KG
Map:                         IBRD 28979
Project ID Number:           KG-PE-40721



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER 1: PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.1    Revitalization of agriculture is a central element of IDA's assistance program for the Kyrgyz
Republic. Agriculture is the mainstay of the Kyrgyz economy accounting for about 47 percent of GDP, 49
percent of employment and 38 percent of total exports. The sector's sustained growth is fundamental to
accelerate the country's overall growth and reduce poverty. After a downward spiral of declining output,
productivity and incomes during 1991-96, the sector is beginning to recover with a projected positive
growth. However, the sector remains far from becoming efficient and profitable.
1.2    Against this background, the proposed project is designed to improve productivity, profitability
and sustainability of agriculture by accelerating the implementation of land and agrarian reforms; and by
providing to farmers critical advisory services and market information, supplemented by farm
demonstrationis, field trials, and adaptive research; increased availability of quality seed; and crop
protection and plant quarantine technologies.  The project would complement other IDA-assisted
agricultural operations and enable private farmers to avail themselves of rural credit, and benefit from
irrigation infrastructure improvements, which would be supported respectively by the Rural Finance
Project (approved in June 1997) and the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project which is being processed in
parallel to the proposed project. The project would improve the effectiveness of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) as a service-provider to the sector and the administrator of
new laws and regulations. The Government provides high priority to this project.
B.    AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Physical and Economic Setting
1.3    Kyrgyz agriculture is diverse. Out of a total of 10 million hectares of agricultural land, there are 1.5
million hectares of arable land in lowlands under intensive production, and 8.5 million hectares of upland
grasslands and pastures under extensive livestock grazing. The country broadly splits into two main
"regions", the heavily populated and climatically warmer South consisting of two oblasts, Osh and
Dzhalal- abad, separated by the Tien Shan mountains from the more sparsely populated North. In winter
it is not possible to drive between the two regions. In the North, there are also differences with Chui
having a disproportionate amount of the cultivable and irrigated land (Table 1.1).  The country
experiences a typical continental clinate for Central Asia in the lowlands with temperatures rising to
40°C in the summer and falling to -20°C in the winter. The mountains are snowbound over the winter
but provide much of the summer grazing. Precipitation which is dispersed throughout the year, varies
from 130 - 680 mm and potential water deficits range from 360 -1450 mm. However, surface water
supplies, largely derived from snow-melt are about adequate to meet the deficit in almost one million
hectares under irrigation command. The major crops grown are wheat, barley, maize, cotton, tobacco,



CHAPTER 1: PROJECTAND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                  2
sugarbeet, sunflower, potato, vegetables, fruit and fodder crops, while the main livestock products are meat
and wool.
1.4    Livestock production contributes over 40 percent of agricultural GDP. Historically, feed from
natural grasslands and fodder crops grown on irrigated land was heavily supplemented with imported grains
and numbers rose to unsustainiable levels. Since 1991, there has been a severe cut back in imported feed
and livestock numbers hiave dropped shiarply - sheep from 10.5 million to about 3 millionl and cattle from
1.2 million to 0.9 million. Livestock production remains less profitable than crop production, largely
because prices for most livestock products remain depressed. New feeding systems based on improved
fodder are required.
1.5    The population is about 4.6 million of whom 800,000 live in the capital Bishkek.  Some
3.8 million people live in the regions and depend on the agricultural sector for thieir livelihood. The
population of the six oblasts (excluding Bishkek city), whichi is predominantly rurai, is broadly as
follows:
Table 1. 1 Rural Population and Agricultural Land By Oblasts
Oblast        Population       Cultivated Land   Irrigated Land
(000 persons)        (000 ha)         (000 ha)
Dzhalal-Abad                820                191              97
Issyk Kul                   418                186             137
Naryn                       262                178              11]
Oshi                       1 409               360             129
Talas                       202                134              89
Chiui                       746               447              273
Total                      3 857             1 498             836
Poverty
1.6    While poverty existed when the country was part of the FSU, real declines in GDP from 1991 until
1996 have been accompanied by rising unemployment and increasing poverty. In 1993, slightly more thani
40 precut of the population were classified as poor. By 1996, at least half of the population had
consumption levels below the poverty line. The severity and depth of poverty are greater in rural areas
where paid employment has declined more sharply than in urban areas. The most vulierable group is rural
women while anthropometric data highilight the increasing incidence of malnutrition among children. The
overall demand for benefits under the social safety net system in the Kyrgyz Republic has increased to a
point where it is putting intolerable pressure on the social and employinent fuLids. Increasinig rural incomes
throughi productivity increases in agriculture, the project's core objective, is therefore critical to alleviate
rural poverty and reduce the government's growing fiscal obligations toward social expenditures.
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.7    Kyrgyz Republic has been in the forefront in Central Asia in pursuhig econoinic reforms. To
promote agricultural recovery and adjustment, the Government, with Bank Group assistance, hias
formulated a strategy which includes: (a) privatizing state-owned land, and state and collective farms;
(b) removing price controls and trade restrictions; (c) creating competitive and private marketing
chaninels, (d) rebuilding a rural credit system; and (e) redefining the role of the state. Since 1991, the
Government has acted on a number of fronlts includinig demonopolizing and privatizing agro-



CHAPTER 1: PROJECTAND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                      3
conglomerates, introducing land reform legislation, improving the incentive structure, and reorienting the
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, whichi has recently been merged with the Ministry of
Water Resources, to be able to efficiently serve the emerging market-oriented agriculture.
1.8    The governmenit launched land and agrarian reforn in 1991, and vigorously pursued it since
1994 with emphasis on1 privatizing state and collective farms and ensuring equitable distribution of land
and property among their members and rural citizens. Although the Kyrgyz Constitution still prohibits
private ownership of land, considerable progress has been made in distributing the land held in former
collectives and state farms on1 a 99-year lease basis. Land use rights are tradable. In December 1997, the
government submitted to Parliament a comprehenisive draft Land Code, and is expected to propose a
constitutionial amendment instituting private ownership of land and a Civil Code with provisions on the
right to owIn lanid.
Rural Credit
1.9    The Government has also embarked on a reform of the financial sector and is putting in place a
strategy for rural finance. The Kyrgyz financial system, like those in other FSU countries, is still in
transitioni.  A comprehensive financial sector reform, supported by an IDA-assisted Financial Sector
Adjustnent Credit (FINSAC) is assisting in the creation of a policy and regulatory environment conducive
to the sound growth of a competitive and efficient banking system.  As part of this operation, the
Agroprombank which was the main channel for provision of directed credit to agriculture in the FSU was
liquidated in 1996. The demise of this institution has left the rural sector without an institutional lender, and
indeed virtually no access to credit.  In response to this void, the govemment has established a
commercially oriented and operationally autonomous noni-banikinig credit agency, the Kyrgyz Agricultural
Finhance Corporation (KAFC) and to begin the long-tern development of a community-based rural finance
system. This program is being supported by the recently approved, IDA-assisted, Rural Finance Project.
1.10   The Rural Finance Project would: (a) in the short-term, through KAFC, establish an interim
institutional arrangement for lending to the agricultural and agribusiness sectors; and (b) in the medium-
to long-term, support a Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) to provide the basis for
developing community-based financial services for the rural population.  The SFCOP will be
implemented on a pilot basis to permit necessary flexibility to learn and eventually establish rural
financial intermediaries (RFIs) based on cooperative principles. SFCOP would test specific mechaniisms
for credit delivery to poor houselholds and develop self-help organizations to facilitate poor households'
access to commercial credit and other financial services.
C.    BANK GROUP SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1.11   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (May 1998) supports interventions in four main areas:
restoration of growth, particularly in the rural sector; poverty alleviation; institution building; and
strengthening of public finances. Recovery in the agriculture sector is a critical element of IDA's
assistance program for economic growth and poverty reduction. Within the CAS framework, IDA
assistance strategy for the rural sector consists of both policy-based operations in support of structural
reforms and investment lendinlg operations in support of sectoral development. Operations in support of
structural reforms, with relevance to the agricultural sector, included: (i) the Privatization and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) whichi initiated liberalization of trade and price policies, and the
improvement of the regulatory framework for private sector development; (ii) the Agricultural
Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) which has promoted the deepening of market
and price liberalization in agriculture and development of competitive markets through



CHAPTER 1: PROJECTAND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                        4
demonopolization, privatization, and private sector development; and (iii) tile Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) referred above (para. 1.9) to restructure banking and make it competitive.
Tile Bank Group has also provided TA to assist in designing a Land Reform and Farm Restructuring
Program.
1.12   In addition to the above policy-based operations and the Rural Finanice Project (paras. 1.9 and
1L.10), IDA's lendinig program in agriculture includes the following investment operations: (i) the Sheep
Development Project (SDP) whiclh recently became effective, aims to privatize, and increase profitability
and export-orielltatioll of the sheep industry; (ii) the proposed Irrigation Rehabilitationi Project to restore
original capacity of the irrigation and drainage system, and to establish an effective institutionial capacity
to manage irrigation water efficiently and on a sustainable basis; and (iii) the proposed Agricultural
Support Services Project (ASSP) to provide post-privatization support services to the growing private
farming sector. Other donors, including TACIS aiid the Asian Development Bank (ADB), are providing
techniical assistance to MAWR for its reorganization and capacity building.
1.13   Co-financing: IFAD Assistance Strategy. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) would co-finance the Rural Advisory and Development Services component of the proposed
project. IFAD's particular role is to ensure that in agricultural restructuring and development funded by
the iiiterllatiollal community, small farmers and rural people who are below the poverty line are taken
into account. Given the limited resources at its disposal, IFAD's strategy is one of involving the
formation of strategic alliances, joining with the goveriiment and major financing agencies interested in
nationial sector interventions, and seeking to ensure that suchl interventions are adequately responsive to
the requirements of the rural poor. Pursuant to this strategy, IFAD is currently co-financing the IDA-
assisted Sheep Development Project (SDP) which focuses on raising incomes of sheep producers who
constitute the poorest segment of the rural population. The SDP is designed to introduce institutional
reforms including the formation of grassroots level slheep farmers' organisations and provide them withl
advisory services. Under the proposed project (ASSP), IFAD will co-finance agricultural advisory
services for crops and livestock, the latter by integrating sheep advisory services being financed under
SDP; and a pilot Iine of credit for small-holders with related teclinical assistance, complementillg the on-
,going IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project.
1.14   Bank Group's Experience. With the Slieep Development Project, wlich is the Bank Group's first
inlvestmenet project in the sector, followed by the recently approved Rural Finance Project wlicih is just
getting underway, the Bank Group has little project implementation experience in Kyrgyz agriculture.
However, it is clear that inadequate implementation capacity is a serious issue and that effective project
implementation requires reliance on foreign technical assistance. At the same time, considerable care must
be taken to build local ownershlip. Elsewllere, investments in land and agrarian reforms have sIlowI to hiave
improved producer incentives, and those in agricultural advisory services and seed industry development to
hiave ligll payoffs, if implemented under a coinducive policy environiment and participatory approach.
Initiatives in the area of crop protection and plant quarantine detect, monitor and address threats to plant,
animal and humani healtll, tlhereby significantly contributing to the protection of the environment. Similarly,
the Bank Group's experience from  elsewilere in the world inldicates that the existence of a market
information system can be critical to the development of competitive markets for agricultural inputs and
outputs. Also, tIle Bank Group's limited experience in FSU and Eastern European countries indicates that
project implementation problems require investments in institution building with emplhasis on hluman
development.



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES IN AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
A.    LAND AND AGRARIAN REFORM
2.1    Legal Framework. Since 1991, land reforn and farn restructurilng have been the cornierstonie of
the governmeit's economic reform program, with a focus on creating an effective market environment in
the rural sector, improving farm profitability, and providing equal opportunities for developmenit of all types
of farm enterprises. Durinig 1991-93, the government established a legal framework to introduce the
concepts of an "individual farm", a "peasant farm", and other types of farn  organizationis SLIch as
agricultural production cooperatives, associations of peasant farms, joint-stock companies, and small
enterprises. UIntil early 1993, these types of fanns gained in number and land area. As the stagnationi and
even reversal of the reform process became evident by about the end of 1993, the government introduced, in
1994, a Presidential Decree to reinforce the implementationi of the land and agrarian reforn program. This
decree has become a center-piece of the prevailing legal framework for agricultural land and noni-lanid
property distribution and farn restructuring.
2.2    Progress witht Land and Agrarian Reform. The 1994 Presidential Decree required all state and
collective farms to issue shares of their land to farm residents, and non-lanld assets to farm employees for
purposes of reorganization into smaller units. The decree provided the beneficiaries of land reform, the
right to choose the kind of fann unit they want to establish or participate in, within the limits of minimum
and maximum farm sizes set by the law. While the maximum limits on farm sizes were subsequently
eliminated, the minimum limits on farm sizes were reduced to one ha for individual farms and five ha for
associations of peasant farms.
2.3    There has been a substantial progress in thefirst stage of land reform, namely, the distribution of
rights to use land from the former state and collective farms to individual farm households, with MAWR-
recognized shares distributed for approximately 75 percent of 986,000 ha subject to distribution. This was
done by issuing either of State Acts guaranteeing 99-year user rights (with few restrictions) or Certificates
of Right to Use a Land Share. As in the case of land shares, the distribution of non-land assets ("property"),
especially livestock, has proceeded almost as rapidly, with property share distribution completed on 387 of
the 518 former state and collective farms. The backlog in the issue of land and non-land shares is mainly in
Chui oblast.
Table 2.1. Progress of Land Reform (as of January 1, 1997)
Category           Area (000 ha)    %                  Commnents
Land distributed by shares        766 471     51  Owned by about 800 000 families
Land not distributed              219 995     15  184 000 ha in Chui oblast
Land Redistribution fund          353 438     24  Available for leasing
Seed and breeding farms           158,613     11  Continuing as state farms
Total                           1 498 517    100
2.4    The land and agrarian reform program provided members of the former state and collective farms
the following four options in farm reorganization: (a) divide into individual and peasant farms; (b) divide
into individual and peasant farms with voluntary reconsolidation into associations and cooperatives; (c)
reorganize whole or part of the farms into joint stock companies; or (d) declare bankruptcy, with property



CHAPTER2: ISSUESINAGRICULTURALSUPPORT SERVICES                                                   6
sold by auction to other producers. However, contrary to the govermienit's expectation that most of the
forner state and collective farms would dismanitle and restructure by the end of 1996, approximately 45
percent of the irrigated land area, or about 430,000 ha. still remains unider m-anagement structures
essentially unchianged from those of the commanld economliy era, withi thieir chiaracteristic inefficienlcies.
2.5    Agricultural Land Retlistribution Fund (ALRF). An additional feature of tile Kvrgyz Republic's
land and agrarian reforn program was the creatioii of a large reserve of land whichi formerly belonged to
state and collective farms, whichi has been placed by law uiider the control of local goverinmenits. Initially,
about 50 percent of total irrigated arable land, in most cases the best land, was transferred to a National
Land Fund whichi was designated for the creation of peasant farms with "traditional Kyrgyz ways of
farming". The land reserve has since been reduced to 25 percent and the National Land Fund hias been
replaced by the Agricultural Land Redistribution Fund (ALRF). By currenit policy, the governmeit expects
to auctionl about 50 percent of this land, with the remaininig 50 percent rented in shiort-term leases. Interim
auction and leasing procedures, issued in September 1997, however, remain largely ulitested.
2.6    New Plhase in Land and Agrarian Reform. Land and agrarian reform  in the Kyrgyz Republic
must, therefore, launcil a new phase of consolilation and completion in whichi emphasis needs to be given
to the areas in whichi land and non-land assets have either not beeii distributed, or distributed but not
c*onsistenit with official guidelines. Attentioni must also be focused on the creation anid managemenlt of new
e*nterprises from  land anid non-land properties that still remain  under the soviet-style collective
maniagemenit. As the government is in the process of introduciing an immovable property registration
system and a revised Land Code, the new phase of consolidation of land and agrarian reform is critical to
establish the foundation for a secure, well-functioniing market in land leases and other assets in rural areas.
To achieve this objective, a number of issues and constrainits, as noted below, must be systematically
addressed:
(a)    Legal and Policy Aspects. While the legal framework for land anid agrarian reform, over
time, has become more coherent, the following aspects are impeding the progress of land
and agrarian reform:
first, legal mandates for the agencies charged witlh land arid agrarian reform,
including MAWR's Republican and Oblast level Centers for Land arid Agrarian
Reform  (RCLAR/CLARs); the recently established State Agency for Land
Management and  Land  Resources  (SALMLR);  the  oblast  and  rayon
administrations, arid village governments tend to overlap arid need to be
adequately defined, particularly at the grassroots level. The lack of clarity in the
functionis of the above agencies have contributed to fragmented, arid sometimes
contradictory approaches to land arid agrarian reform;
secontd, while temporary regulations for the auction of land held in reserve have
recently been issued, the basic policy objectives of the auction program remain to
The government has since asked the MAWR Council headed by the Minister to address inter-agency
coordination issues in the context of government orders Nos. 490 of October 1996 (for RCLAR); 3 1 0 of
July 1996 (for SALMLR); and 187 of April 1996 (for local governments). Further work is needed to
clarify responsibilities of individual agencies under these orders and other laws on land and agrarian
reform.



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES                                                7
be defined. If the objective of the auction program is to make more land available
to younlger or land-poor farmers (equity objectives), these goals should be
explicitly incorporated into auction procedures;
thiirdl, there is a need to provide fuller definition of rights and obligatiolis of new
types of farms and service providers;
fourth, legal rights conferred by land certificates for use of a land share,
particularly with respect to inileritanice procedures, require formal clarifications;
and the multiplicity of formats used for land certificates may complicate
authenticationi and registration of land rights;
fifth, criteria whicih can be used by local governmeit authorities for forfeiture of
land use righits need legal clarification;
sixtih, as land leases expire, their desirability for use as collateral diminishes. The
question of how to make long-term use-rights function effectively as collateral
must be addressed; and
filnally, there is a need to reexamine the desirability of minimum size limits from
the standpoint of enforcement and land market efficiency.
(b)    Institutional Coordination.  The current informal coordination among RCLAR and
CLARs, and SALMLR is weak and contributinig to fragmented implementation of the land
and agrarian reform program. Besides, RCLAR, CLARs and SALMLR lack adequately-
trained staff in sufficient numbers and equipment to carry out their responsibilities
effectively. The government should draw up revised institutional mandates and a unified
strategy for RCLAR and SALMLR; provide necessary training to their staff to effectively
carry out land and agrarian reform policies; and support rural inhabitants in a variety of
farm restructuring tasks.
(c)    Distribution of Land Shares. About 25 percent of land shares (for some 220,000 ha.)
remain to be officially distributed. The backlog is mainly in Chui oblast where land shares
have not been issued for some 185,000 ha, or about 77 percent of the total land earmarked
for distribution but not yet distributed (220,000 ha). Further, about 90 percent of land
certificates issued to holders of land shares are "temporary" rather than "permanent" and
do not necessarily contain a sketch map identifying the location of household parcels. In
Chui oblast, the shares issued are not recognized by the MAWR, as the share certificates do
not conform to what the government has now adopted as an official standard; moreover,
the certificates have been issued in the names of individuals rather than in the names of
households. Land share distribution in Chui oblast is, therefore, a major unfinished issue,
which will need to be dealt with through a coordinated effort of RCLAR/CLARs and
SALMLR, taking a proactive role in issuance of share certificates for an estimated 90,000
families. Some 90,000 additional land shares in existence outside Chui do not correspond
to a spatially defined parcel of land. These parcels need to be surveyed and sketched on



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSFRVICES                                                        8
maps, giveni tilat it is now the government's policy that cach land slhare shiould be spatially
located. 2
(d)     Distribution of Property Shares Property shiares lhave not vet beeen issued by some 131
state and collective farms (out of 518 ). Of these 131 farms. 90 are located in CIhLui oblast.
Valuation of propelty and shiare distribution in ClLii oblast, tlherefore. is a key unfinished
issue. Elsewhiere in the couLntry, particularly in Oslh oblast. whdere many small larms hiave
emerged, the manlagemenit of redistributed property lias become the central issue. Many
individual farmers hiave ownerslip slhares in machiniery and infrastructure wlicih are runi by
-service centers" wlhose maniagemenit is in the hanids of village government and/or the
previous farm  management committees, sometimes due to indivisibility of properties
involved but more ofteii to provide the latter witlh an incomiie. The lack of transparent.
equitable, and efficient manageinent practices for thlese assets is inhibitiiw( access to
machiniery services for a substantial numilber of farms aiid contributing to decapitalization
of the sector. Outstandinig fann debt, principally to the forner Agroprombanik and the
governmenit, hias further complicated property shiare division, and is creating a disincenitive
to formation of new farms. Pragmatic and conciliatory collection procedures and case-by-
case debt restructuring linked to new leniding, may substanitially reduce this disincentive.
(e)     Farm  Management and Reorganization. In some areas, especially in Chui oblast, thle
pre-reforn  management structures control up to 80 percent of irrigated land.  Difficult
macro-economic conditionis have played a large role in discouraging furtlher evolution in
farn organizationi. But an equally discouraging role has been played in some areas, by
managers and administrators reluctant to lose advantages offered to tlhem by thle status quo.
Wlhile economic and sectoral reforms are beginninig to address constrainits to farm
reorganization, public information about the legal framework, support for thie establislhment
of true cooperatives and associations, and pro-active policy of advocacy and advisory
services for restructuring enterprises must address the second set of constrainits. Thle newly
forined farn enterprises face severe constrainits to becoming economically viable entities
due to the lack of post-privatization services. Many are transitionial farn units whichi might
undergo further changes, suclh as consolidation, division, and liquidation. Critical to the
survival of these new private farns is access to: (i) credit to purcilase needed inputs; (ii)
mechanizationi services and irrigation water; (iii) competitive product markets (including
the recovery of agro-processing); (iv) techinical and farm management advisory services;
and (v) productivity-enlhanicing technologies.
2.7     The government provides hiiglh priority to the establishment of a land registration system. 3 A
draft law on the State Registration of Laand alid Immovable Property Riglhts wliclh provides for a uniform
2       The certificate for the right to use the land has only one official form  introduced by the Government
Resolution No. 632 of August 22, 1994, which has been used by all oblasts except Chui. The Chui oblast
has introduced a different form for this certificate by a local government resolution No. 7/P-2/16 which,
according to MAWR and SALMLR must be canceled and new certificates issued in the standard form.
Chui certificates, unlike the certificates issued in other oblasts, are not accompanied by plot sketches.
Pending the passing of a law on the State Registration of Land and Immovable Property Rights, the
government has issued a Resolution No. 172 dated April 2, 1997 to facilitate registration of rights to use
land. The SALMLR has been designated as the implementing agency. According to SALMLR, some
450,000 certificates must be issued and unless it is institutionally strengthened, it would take several years



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES                                               9
registration system covering all land (both rural and urbani) Uinder a single authlority has been submitted
to Parliament. The governmiienet has also designated the Ministry oflJustice as the agenicy responsible for
the registration system. A pilot registrationi project finaniced by USAID has been completed in two
rayons and a follow-up project may be included in the IDA lending program for f1Y99. Accelerated and
legally consistenit completioni of the distributioll ol land and property sliares is critical to ensure that
transactionis and new  boundaries created out of land reformi and farmi rCstrLucturinig are properly
documented and monitored, througlh rural committees and rayoni level adminiistrationis and eventually by
the Ministry of Justice. The proposed strengtlhenlinig of RCLAR/CLARs and SALMLR is fulidamenital to
this process.
B.   RURAL ADVISORY SERVICES
2.8    Clhanges in Iniformiationi Needs. Under the forner system, the previous Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MAF) planied production in the agricultural sector on the basis of Governmenit targets, issuing
instructions directly to the state and collective farms. The Agricultural Directorate of MAF provided
techinical support to large scale farms throughi oblast and rayon level staff, in the form  of directives
concerning production quotas and use of new cultivators, fertilizers and other inputs. Many of these staff
have joined new farms and those remainin1g with local departments of agriculture now deal primarily with
regulatory matters.
2.9    Field surveys slhow that new farm owners created by the processes of land reform, either have no
kinowledge of farming or, should they have worked in collectivized agriculture before, have much
specialized knowledge in one or two activities under large scale agricultural production. Neither group
has any experience of total farn management in a market economy nor of technical farm activities, apart
from their previous specialization. The need for an advisory service is clear and urgent if land reforn is
not to falter, and agricultural production is not to remain low with serious consequences for the economy
as a whole as well as for the incidence of poverty.
2.10   Donor-assisted Advisory Services Projects. Since 1992, pilot projects funded by TACIS, Swiss
Aid (provided through Helvetas and Caritas) and GTZ (Germany) have been launched to test out the
provision of farm advisory services to emerging private farms. TACIS has operated two pilot projects: one
of these has financed Agri-Business Centers (ABC) in three locations - Kara-Balta (Chui Oblast), Naryn
and Djalal-Abad and the other set up Agricultural Training and Advisory Services (ATAS) in the Issyk-Kul
and Talas oblasts, and a central unit in MAWR, Bishkek. These two pilot projects closed in December
1997. TACIS has also supported a pilot Farm Management Survey. Although there are no experienced
farn management advisors within the country, the various pilot projects have shiowin that correctly
selected and trained nationals, provided with up-to-date and accurate information, can very rapidly start
to play a role in the support of the new land owners and managers. These pilot projects have tested
different models of advisory services, as follows:
the Swiss model supported the bottom-up approach based on the formation of groups which
provide small farmers and poor people with democratic and financial power. The main emphasis
has been on credit and farmer institution building, the latter bringing other benefits in its wake;
*      the German model is based on the special environment of Osh Oblast which already has strong
Farmers Associations (FAs) established. The approach of this model has been to provide
to complete this process and effectively service its obligations concerning the registration of rights to use
land under the above government resolution.



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES                                                 10
technical and legal advice at oblast level, as there is considered to be less need for rayon level staff
because of the existence of strong FAs;
*      the ECU-TACIS ABC model is based on providing credit, building farmers' organizations and
agro-technical advice withi specialist staff based in a large town rather than at rayon level;
*      the ECU-ATAS model is committed to the concept of general advisors at rayon level supported by
subject-matter specialists at oblast level and a central office to provide a stream of information on
inarketing and prices, land reform, credit as well as technical advice.
2.11    The Swiss-funded project run by Helvetas has been operating in two rayons in Naryn, while Caritas
has a pilot activity in Djalal-Abad. Swiss aid is expected to continiue to support these operations for the next
5-10 years and any intervenitionis by the proposed project would be of a complementary nature. GTZ started
a 5-year pilot program in July 1996, with the objective of developing structures and institutiolIs for farmers,
ethniic groups and women in four rayons of Osh oblast. These pilot projects have demonstrated that
farmers need general advisors at rayon level, capable either of advising directly on a range of topics
(finanice, tax, techinology etc.) or know how, and where to get the informationi. Broadly, where farmers
have a good techinical grounding, they seek Agri-business skills including fann management, financial
planninig, cooperative managemenit and marketing. On the technilcal side, farmer skills are particularly
weak in soil conservationi, irrigation management, animal husbandry and farm mechanizationi. The majority
of farmers seek advice that is impartial and free of political interference.
Table 2.2: Farmer Groups in Donor-Assisted Pilot Projects
Oblast          Pilot Project                   Farmer Groups          Members (Farms)
Talas                   ATAS                                         35                    1643
CNFA                                         1                      62
Naryn                   ABC/Helvetas                                 16                    2470
Helvetas                                    44                     1287
Djalalabad              Caritas                                     118                    2917
Osh                     GTZ                                          12                    2917
CNFA                                         3                      159
Issak-Kul               ATAS                                        65                     2724
PIAFDP                                       5                      154
CNFA                                         1                     234
Chui                    ABC                                          4                      235
Total                                                      304                  14798*
* Average farmer members per group: 49. CNFA: US-based Citizens Netwiork for Foreign Affairs.
2.12   Sustainability of Present Advisory Services. While there are altogether about 70 advisory staff
working under the three donor-assisted projects (Swiss, German and EU-TACIS) in some 16 rayons, the
sustainability of these services is in doubt. To date, pilot advisory services have been financed entirely by
donor funds. While the services so developed are unsustainable as such, farmers have come to depend
on them for sound advice and a fair counsel in the face of resistance of local administrations and rural
committees (which previously managed the state or collective farms) with whom they are frequently in
dispute on matters of land and property distribution. MAWR considers that quasi-independence of the
advisory services should be maintained, while the local departments of agriculture should continue to be
responsible primarily for regulatory matters. The proposed ASSP project would support this approacih
withi the objective of putting advisory services on a sustainable basis and improving donor coordination,
without, however, (a) losing the key elements of individual initiatives; and (b) by developing necessary
linkages withi farm demonstrations, field trials, adaptive research and the agricultural research system.



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES                                           11
2.13   Agricultural Research System. The agricultural researcih system wlich was hardly sustainable
before 1991 has ilow virtually collapsed. Designed for a different era whien much of the research was
managed and funded from Moscow for the benefit of collective and state farms, salaries have dwindled and
are paid irregularly, many staff have left and laboratories are closed. Conscious of the need to reform the
system, the govemment is implementing an initial reorganizationi of the services. The core institutes for
agricultural research comprising the Agricultural Traininig Institute (University) and five MAWR institutes
have been brought together as an Agrarian Academy created by Presidential Decree of April 1, 1996. In
terms of research, early indicationis are that the Agrarian Academy would focus on basic and applied
science while MAWR would provide techniology support to farmiers. MAWR remains responsible for
finanlcinig and coordinationi of activities of the experimental stations, training and extensioni, seed growing,
livestock breeding and other farms of the Academy. Total scientific staff is about 375. While the core
responsibility for agricultural research is with the Agrarian Academy and five associate institutes, the
Academy of Sciences also contributes, as do the units of regional universities such as in OsI and Djalal-
Abad which have recently established their departments of agriculture.
2.14   In addition to the core budgetary funds, fundinig for agricultural researcih is made available on1 a
competitive basis by the Scientific Council oni Research in Agriculture operating under the Commission on
Science and New Technology (CSNT). The Council puts out tenders for selected themes, but an amount of
only 5 million Soms (US$350,000) was allocated in 1996 for this activity, whichi hardly cover salaries of the
staff involved.
2.15   Farmers' Teclhnology needs: Importance of on-farm demonstrations, feled trials and adaptive
Researchl. Technologies needed for small-scale farming in a market economy are different from those that
were developed for large-scale farms of several thousand hectares with little reference to costs and benefits
of production. Location-specific recommendations are required for optimum cropping patterns in different
agro-ecological regions including: less intensive use of chemical inputs, better use of irrigation water and
introduction of smaller scale machiniery.  On-farm demonstrations, field trials and adaptive research
programs should focus oln farmers' needs and be conducted partly on-farm and with farmer participation,
while research results need to be subjected to economic analysis. Links with regional and international
research institutes need to be established to introduce planting material and technologies that might be
adaptable to Kyrgyz conditions. The proposed project would take the first step in developing on-farm trials
and demonstrations to promote a sustainable improvement in productivity.
2.16   Rural Credit. Farmers' lack of access to credit for purchase of major inputs such as seed,
fertilizers and chemicals, spare parts, animal feed and general support services continues to be the major
constraint to realization of benefits of rural advisory services, exacerbated by falling incomes in the rural
sector. To address this constraint, while the development of a broader rural financial market is underway
(paras. 1.9-1.10), under the proposed project, the IFAD will provide a loan of US$1.5 million to the
Government to make an equity contribution to KAFC for provision of micro-credit targeted at small
farmers. This will essentially be a poverty targeting feature of the project. Additionally, the IFAD loan
to tile Government, up to US$300,000 equivalent, would finance technical assistance for development of
innovative micro-credit mechanisms suited to local conditions.
C.    SEED PRODUCTION
2.17   Background.   Until recently, the country supported an active seed industry, exporting seed to
much of the FSU. Today, much of this has collapsed because breeding and primary seed production are
under-funded and increasingly ill-equipped and seed quality controls are weak. Farmers do not have
information about new seeds and demand is constrained because of the lack of markets and credit in the



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES                                                 12
agricultural sector. Seed used by farmies in most ex-collective or private farms is Luntreated. locally-
saved seed, wlicil is genetically highly variable, contaminiiated withi seed-borne discases. weeds, and
generally poor in terms of germinationi and vigor. TIhle quality of seed in the lpip3eline, from Breeder seed
to Elite seed is also very variable. As a result, most farmers hiave no access to qualitv seed, whille seed
producers hiave difficulty in selling good seeds at an adequate price. f'urthermore. the capacity of the
seed industry to produce a steady flow of marketable varieties needs to be increased, as thils is crLucial to
the development of an efficient and competitive agricultuire.
2.18   Institutions. Plant breeding is essentially conducted at two researcil ilnstitutes. botih under tihe
Agrarian Academy. The Crop Research Institute (CRI) is responsible for the developmenit of all major
crops, except fodder crops. CR1 is part of the "Industrial Association for Crop Researcil" (NPOZ) which
links tihe researcih institute withi a network of experimental stations and productionI farmis. There are
seven experimental stations under NPOZ, all of whiichi to some degree are involved in varietal
improvemenit or in primary seed multiplicationi. In tile formier system, some five farms sLipplied Elite
Seed (produced from Super Elite seed received from two specialized NPOZ farmis) to close to seventy
specialized farms in the state sector whiichi are responsible for the productioll of comimlercial seed. The
Forage and Pasture Research Institute (FPRI) conducts research on natLiral pastures anid cultivated
forages. FPRI is also part of an 'industrial association' under wlichi operate four experimental stations.
Recently, tile farn responsible for production of Elite and Super Elite forage crop seed hias been broughlt
back tinder the FPRI.
2.19   Regulatory functionis regarding seeds involve official variety testing, carried out by the State
Commission on Variety Selection, and seed inspectioni by the Republican Seed Inspectorate and a
network of seed laboratories at oblast and rayon level. These various services are nom-niially Linder
MAWR as the oblast and rayon-level seed laboratories are dependenit on local governmenits wlicih funid
themr.
2.20   Seed program.  The governmeit lias placed highi priority on tile relhabilitation of the seed
industry. With inputs from various donors, MAWR is working on a national strategy to clarify the role
of the state and private sector withi an emphasis on the development of seed productioni anid distribution
in the private sector. The government has also started to put in place an appropriate legal and regulatory
framework (a public sector role) for establishing an enablinig environmenit for seed development.
including freer access to international germplasm. A recently passed seed law provides a satisfactory
framework withlin whiich the sector would operate, except that the seed law containis a requiremenit of
compulsory certification of all varieties. This requirement, thiough primarily intenided to ensure that low
quality seed does not enter the market and allow time for the development of genuine seed producers. in
the long run, it (tlhe compulsory certification) could become a constrailit to the development of a market-
based, private sector seed industry. The government agrees that this restriction should be lifted in due
course, and is prepared to provide for appropriate safeguards in certification procedures that would be
followed in the interim. During negotiations, an agreement was reached that the government would
issue, by December 31, 1998, policy guidelines, satisfactory to IDA, to implement the conmpulsory seed
certification requirements under the Seed Law; and by December 31, 2000, submit to the Parlicm?ent, a
drafi amendment to the Seed Law, satisfactory to IDA, which would allow  MA WR to offer seed
certification on a voluntary basis.
2.21    The Government also intends to introduce a law on Plant Breeders' Protection Rights (PBPR) to
create an enabling environment for private investmenits in plant breeding.  FAO legal and technical
specialists have reviewed the draft PBPR Law with the government anid made recommendations, and the
govermment has also sought and incorporated the comments of UPOV (Interniationial Unioni for Protection



CHAPTER 2: ISSUES INAGRICULTURAL SUPPORTSERVICES 13
of New Varieties of Plants) in thie draft law. Goverinimlenit lhas stated its inteintioni to becomne a member of
the UPOV and the necessary finanicinig hias becei included unide- the project. Dutrin,g neg,oliations, an
agreenent 11/as reLaCheLd i/hit tlie government wo uld subiniii to the ParlijamnentU (/raft law, satisf.afctor.y to
IDA. ol tile Pr otection of p/ant brecders rsrigh/s.    A ugigst 3/, 1998.
2.22   Tlhrougih an EU-assisted project, a credible mechianism  for productionl and supply of quality
commercial seed has been demonstrated USingl couniterpart funids generated from food aid. Amonig the
seed farmiis associated withi this project. a number of farmis have already demonlstrated a poteintial to
emerge as hiealthy private sector seed businesses. Hlowever, they still tace significant finanlcial, tecihnical
and marketing problems, and need furthier sUpport beforc tiley can become fully sustainable. Also, there
is need to move tihpstrealnf to secure thie production of good Elite seed for contract multiplication and to
put in place necessary regulatory and quality controls, especially in the sphieres of breeding, and initial
multiplicationi (the primary seed sector), wlicil the goveriinmenit sees as of strategic importanlce in tile
prevailinig economic environmiienit.
2.23   The government has accepted that one step downward from breeding, i.e., Super Elite and Elite
seed production, should be privatized. In support of this approach, the proposed project will assist the
(Zovernmeit in progressively dismantling the state monopoly starting witlh Elite seeds, then Super Elite
seeds, and encouraginig tile private sector to step in. The project-assisted public investments would only
be at the apex of the seed industry, (germplasm acquisition; seed breeding; and regulatory services).
Support for seed multiplication would be limited to finanicing of two publicly-owned Super Elite and
Elite seed farms and to thiree private commercial seed producers (selected competitively) to provide a
basis for trainiilng and demonstrationi of good practice. The project's emphiasis is on creating an incenitive
framework to assist in developing techinical and managerial expertise in the private sector. At thlis time,
the Kyrgyz seed sub-sector is not ready to permit a total shiift from public funding to private/client
fundinig, ancd the proposed limited public sector intervenitioni is urgently needed to pave the way for future
sustainable private sector investments. This is particularly so because the project support would relate
mainlly to self-pollinating cereal and fodder crops, the seed production of whichi, due to its inherently low
profitability, is of limited commercial interest to the private sector.
D.    CROP PROTECTION
2.24   Until 1995, crop protection was essentially in the domain of one company, tile Kyrgyz
Selkhiozkimia (KSK), whiicih hiandled procurement, application and distribution of pesticides and other
agro-chiemicals along withi its related regulatory functions of product registration, quality control and
residue monitoring. With the privatization of KSK in 1996, these regulatory functionis were given to
MAWR's Agency for (often called as Department of) Clhemical Supply and Plant Protection (ACSPP).
ACSPP, an independent legal entity, is currently under-funded. There is no establishied registration
system for pesticides while the import, sale and use of pesticides is currently uncontrolled. Although
plant quarantine services were relatively well established using FSU procedures, these remain severely
under-funded with major quarantine facilities being in need of reliabilitation.  The capacity of plant
quarantinie witihin tihe country, thierefore, needs to be strengtihenied: first, in the context of the reduced
availability of fiscal resources; and second, to effectively respond to a significant increase in the demand
for quarantine services as a result of the increase in the germplasm exchiange emanating from the on-
going agrarian reform.
2.25   What is needed is to establishi a sound legislative framework and effective organizations and
procedures for the Kyrgyz crop protection and plant quarantine services whicih will effectively assist in
controllinig plant pests and diseases by:  (a) detecting and monitorinig tlireats to plant healtih; (b)



CHAPTER2: ISSUESINAGRICULTURALSUPPORTSERVICES                                              14
forecasting attacks and disseminating information; (c) deploying counter-measures, strategies and
methods of protection (these include the use of pesticides in the context of integrated pest management,
biological control agents and similar techniques, methods and substances).  In this regard, the
government has formulated a draft law for the control of pesticide use.
E.    AGRICULTURAL MARKET INFORMATION
2.26   Currenitly, the development of agricultural marketing is constrainied by several factors including
the following: the structural remains of the old system whiich limit producers' access to free, competitive
markets; interventionis by local autilorities in price setting for inputs and outputs; the lack of working
capital resulting in delayed payments to sellers; limited price differentiation by product quality; the lack
of legal protection to buyers and sellers in enforcement of contracts; inadequate infrastructure for storage
and transportationi contributing to higih post-harvest losses; and the lack of access of producers, traders
and consumers to market information. The proposed project will focus on strengthelling institutional
arrangements for collection, processing and disseminationi of relevant market information for the benefit
of producers, processors, traders, and policy-makers, playing the role of a catalyst in promoting a broad
development of agricultural marketing. A pilot project to disseminate market informationi is currently
underway in two oblasts, with support from the British Know How Fund. The proposed project would
extend the pilot to the remaining four oblasts, thus extendinig market informationi nationi-wide, under an
improved conceptual, legal and operational framework.



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The project objective is to improve the incenitive framework for, and productivity, profitability,
and sustainability of Kyrgyz agriculture by meanis of: assisting the government in implementing land
and agrarian reforms; providing emerging private farms with advisory and development services;
developing the seed industry; establishinig a legal framework, organizationis and procedures for crop
protection and plant quarantinie; establishinig an agricultural market informationi system; and enhancing
institutional capacity of MAWR.
B.    SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.2.   The project would comprise of the following main components: (i) Land and Agrarian Reform
(Support to Farn Restructuring); (ii) Rural Advisory and Development Services; (iii) Seed Industry
Development (for cereal and fodder crops); (iv) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine; (v) Agricultural
Market Information System; and (vi) Institutional Capacity Building of MAWR, including of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), already established, to ensure timely implementation of the above
components, consistent with sound financial, economic and technical standards. The project would use a
judicious combination of public, private and voluntary initiatives to help raise rural household incomes,
reduce poverty, and protect the environmenit. It would promote a participatory approach to technology
adaptation and transfer. Increased farmer ownership and accountability of the agricultural knowledge
system is a key element of the project design. The project will be implemented over a period of five
years (1998-2003). Annex A summarizes the Project Design.
C.    DETAILED FEATURES
(i) Land and Agrarian Reform (Support to Farm Restructuring)
3.3    The main objectives of this component are to: (i) complete distribution of land and non-land
assets so that, by the end of the project period, there will be complete private use-rights or ownership of
land and non-land assets designated for privatization, (ii) establish policies and procedures for land
auctions; (iii) support capacity building in government agencies (RCLAR, CLARs and SALMLR), and
of farming communities to support agricultural enterprise restructuring; and (iv) establish a legal and
regulatory framework for land market development.
3.4    At the republican and oblast levels, the component will assist RCLAR, CLARs and SALMLR to
develop policy, monitoring, outreach and support service capacities. At rayon, village and farmer levels,
the strategy would be to overcome both physical and human resource constraints to substantive farm
restructuring, through improvements in the legal framework, provision of agricultural enterprise
management information, and physical demarcation and allocation of land and non-land assets. The
British Know How Fund (KHF) would provide a grant up to US$800,000 during the first two years of the
project and the major inputs of this technical assistance will be concentrated in strategy development for
land reform nationwide, capacity building in MAWR's RCLAR and oblast level CLARs; and resolving
problems across country in order to establish sustainable systems for managing and financing land and
agrarian reform programs.



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                          16
3.5    The land and agrarian reform  componlenit will be nationial in scope. Tel RCLAR and SALMLR
will initially commenlce the componenit implemilenitationi in Chui oblast, f'ollowed by the five other
oblasts, during project years I and 2. comillelnsLirate with the progress in capacity huildin, in local
institutiolIs whicIh will be the focus of technilcal assistanice proposed to be provided by the KI 1F. In Chui,
the reforml process is the least complete of all the six oblasts. withi little of' its land distributioll
recognized by the MAWR as valid, and 90 (out of a nationiwide total of 131 ) large state and collective
farms still required to carry out distributioni of their noni-lanid assets. AltIlougIl the distributioll oft land
and noni-lanid shares is relatively advanced in the remaining iive oblasts (Osh, Talas, Dzal-abad, Naryn
and Issyk-Kul), there are major issues to be addressed in all i/hi six oblasts. including the orgaLization of
new  farmillng UllitS, forilializationi of land use-righllt certificates, resolution of outstanding debts.
clarificationi of property righits; formiationl aiid adminlistiationi of equipmenit service entities: and
auctioning/leasing of land held in ALRF. Durinlg negotiationis, at the Goverinimienlt request, IDA agreed to
expand the scope of this componienit to include the cost of issuanice of land certificates in all oblasts (inistead
of ihilitilig this activity to only Chui oblast as originally proposed).
3.6    The componenit will finanice techinical assistance, training, office equipment, vehicles, printinig of
land certificates, and iicr-emenital operating expenditures for the following: (a) a review of unresolved
legal aspects of land and agrarian reform and land market development; (b) institutionial strengtihenlilng of
RCLAR in four areas (program  coordinationi and implementationi; public information preparation and
disseminationi; monitorinig and evaluation; and the maniagemenit of ALRF); (c) SALMLR's capacity
building for physical demarcation of land boulidaries and issue of land certificates; and (d) institutionlal
strengthieninig of oblast and rayon CLARs, village governimenits and farner groups to effectively carry
out grassroots-level responsibilities.
(ii) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS)
3).7    The objective of this component will be to assist newly created private farms (throughi the
processes of land reform) to undertake profitable farming on a sustainable basis, by making available the
knowledge they need, with regard to small-scale farming, accessing credit and input supply, and output
marketiig. (Figure  1). As the project-assisted farm restructuring program proceeds, there are likely to
emerge as many as 140,000 private farmers, many with very small holdings. To be able to effectively
serve this large clientele, the RADS will establish a network of rural advisory and development centers
(RADCs), one in each of the six oblasts (includinig the centers already established in all the six oblasts by
donor-assisted pilot projects). The oblast RADCs will, in phiases, open some 44 rayon/village level
offices, 4-10 per oblast, depending upon the oblasts' area and population. RADCs' rayon offices will
have an average of 2-3 advisors each, totaling about 100 advisors. The RADCs will be supported by a
Secretariat in Bishkek to provide coordinationi, monitoring and financial managemeit.
3.8    The RADCs' main functions will be to give advice to farmers, on a one to one or group basis, in
appropriate techniques of farming, backed by location-specific technology development. Techniology
development will concentrate on field trials and demonstrationls and these will be done on1 farmers' fields
at the request of farmers, in conjunction with necessary adaptive research. This is expected to raise
farner awareness and understandinlg of the basic principles of plant nutritioni and protection, as well as of
soil and water management, including the importance of rotations, proper tillage and irrigation practices.
This knowledge is generally lacking, as most of the new  farn  operators hiave no prior farming
experience.  Demonstrationis and on-farm  experimentation would help translate these principles in
practices that increase farm efficiency. This would be a long-term investment In sustainiable agriculture.
RADCs will also assist farmers in preparing business plans in support of credit applications, anid in
various forms of group development such as credit, water user, machiniery and marketing groups,



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                       17
including associated training. These initiatives will enable farmers to organize themselves for obtai1ilig
improved services, solving coImlilimlo problems. and improving productivity of farms thley cultivate.
3.9    In this regard, the RADS will use the experience gailned with on-goling pilot projects that are
being implemented in the counltry by EU-TACIS (ABC and ATAS projects); the Swiss; GTZ and NGOs
in agricultural extensioni and credit (para. 2.10) and integrate farmn advisory services currenitly being
provided by the donors and the on-goling IDA/IFAD-assisted Sheep Developmelit Project (SDP). This
will avoid the developmenit of parallel actions serving different productioin activities on the same farms.
Major donors have agreed on the need for coordinationi, and the convergenice of various donor-assisted
pilot projects into RADS is uliderway. This will, it is hoped, contrast with maniy extensioni services
whiich go out to "deliver" techniical messages that are not necessarily demanded by farmers. As a
condition of negotiations, the governmlent (MA WR) issued a formnal order (No. 2 of February 4, 1998) to
merge livestock advisory services under the 'Sheep Development Project ('SDP) with A&STSP  integrated
rural advisory and development services (RADS2) and, at negotiations, informed IDA and IFAD (which
wZould co-finance RADS) that this merger would be cairried out effectively, no later than September 30,
1998.
3.10   Target Group. RADCs operating at the oblast and rayon levels will serve a wide range of
farming enterprises includinig individual farms, partnershiips, associations, and joint stock companies.
The strategy would be to re-activate the farming sector as a whole, the collapse of whichi is one of the
major causes of the present highi level of poverty in the rural sector. Experience with on-going pilots
(para. 2.10) indicates that an advisory service will be most effective wheln it is dealing with innovative,
early-adopter type farmers, and indeed it will, by demand, be pulled in that direction. In this context,
IFAD, whichi will co-finance this componenit, would necessarily reconcile its institutional policy of
providing advice and support for the poorest rural groups with the fact that if the advisory service must
achieve the maximum  effect at the lowest cost and effort, theni it is the lead farmers, who would
influence others in their social groups, who would be the most rewarding to target.
3.11   However, the project will include deliberate measures to target the needs of the rural population
below the poverty line (about 50 percent of rural houselholds), comprising mostly small holders with
limited or no access to social services, social infrastructure, credit, and off-farn employment as follows:
(a) stipulating eligibility criteria that will ensure that small holders get access to credit provided by the
proposed IFAD-funded Farm Development Fund (FDF) (paras. 2.16 and 4.11-4.13); (b) introducing,
from year 3 of the project, a voucher system (funded by IFAD loan) to enable small holders below the
poverty line, to pay for advisory services -- by which the government will bear the cost of vouchers
issued to and used by those who would most need its assistance; (c) introducing initiatives to overcome
farm  machinery problems faced by small holders; (d) targeting poorer farmers in field trials and
demonstrations; and (e) training RADS advisors to address broader socio-economic issues, including
issues faced by rural women. While RADS' institutionial goal will be to operate gradually on a self-
financing basis, the cost of targeting the poor will be borne by the governmeit for many years.



Kyrgyz Republic                                                                    Figure 1.1
Agricultural Support Services Project
Rural Advisory Development Service (RADS)
Farmer Needs              Farmers               Farmer           ____Farmer __                    Oblast
Representatives               Steering                                     National
(i) Technical                                 Representatives   \                               Councils                                   Secretariat In
Bishkek
Crops
tarmer
Livestock                                       V                 Represenitatives           RADC at
RADS                                           Oblast          Day-to-day Contact         Training
(ii) Business                                       at                                            Level                                     Specialist
Management                                     Rayon                                 -
Day-to-day            Level                                     Farm Management    Formal Requests for 
(iii) Financial      .      _ _                                                                Specialists       Research/information
Information            Contact                 Rayon
Advisors
(iv) Credit            Fanmer with Advisors .Farmer day-to-day contact  Group Developmen
with Specialists          Specialists
(v) Mechanisation                                                                      .           A                                                         Commissioned Research
(vi) Group                                                  Univemetie                                                                           Agraian              Ag. Universities 
Formation                                        |           j    A                                            4   Local                     Academy
Agrarian                   National
Academy                     Level
Day-to-day contact with Group Development SpeciallsVis
FARMERS REQUESTS                                |                                 NATIONAL REQUEST EVALUATION               |                  PROCESS
|             LOCAL REQUEST EVALUATION                  I
RESEARCH COMMISSIONED BY OBLAST                                             STAGES
RESEARCH COMMISSIONED
BY SECRETARIAT
co



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                       19
3.12   The main items to be finaniced by RADS componienit will include relhabilitation of existing
buildings for RADCs; laboratory and field equipment: vehicles; technical assistance and traininig; and
incremental operating expenses (includinlg salaries of RADS staff). The project envisages that farmer
beneficiaries will begin to pay, even if in small amouLnts, toward RADCs' service cost right from the
start. This approach will have two advantages. First, farmers will demand value for money and advisors
will liave to perform or they will not be able to clharge. Second, farmers will begin to recognize that
advice hias monetary value.  RADCs will make chiarges for:  thle preparation of business plans;
preparation of credit applications; techilical visits to farms and services such as soil analysis and
fertilizer recommendationis.  The initial charges will be low.  The government will review  the
effectiveness of the proposed cost-recovery mechanlisms for the RADS during the project's mid-term
review and introduce appropriate refinements (paras. 5.15-5.16).
(iii) Seed Industry Development
3.13   The project would assist in establishinig a viable, self-sustaining, seed industry with emplhasis on1
commercialization, providing farmers with good quality seed of improved varieties. For this, the project
would: (a) support the acquisition and development of plant varieties including the use of international
finished germplasm for cereals and forage; (b) rehabilitate selected facilities for cereal and forage seed
production, processing and storage; (c) demonstrate seed production on pilot farms to promote the
development of a private commercial seed sector; (d) strengtheni first, MAWR's capacity to develop and
implement seed policy and second, its regulatory services for variety testing, variety registration and
seed certification; (e) establish a legal framework and procedures for the protection of plant breeders'
rights; and (f) support publication and dissemination of official variety testing results and seed industry
information.
3.14   Plant Variety Acquisition and Development. The project would provide support to the plant
breeding departments of the Crop Research Institute (CRI) and the Fodder and Pasture Research Institute
(FPRI) which are constituents of the Agrarian Academy and responsible for the acquisition, development
and evaluation of new germplasm and its submission to the official variety testing system. Support in
thie form of laboratory and field equipment, incremental salaries, and operating costs would be provided
to CRI for variety development activities in wheat, barley and maize (and later for oil seeds and potatoes)
at Djal (Chui oblast) and two other stations (Osh and Issyk-Kul), and to FPRI for alfalfa and sainfoin
variety development at the FPRI center in Sokoluk rayon (Chui oblast) and one outstation.
3.15   The two breeding units' main functions under the project would be to: (a) acquire a wide range
of (essentially finished) germplasm for cereals (wheat, barley, and maize) and forage crops (alfalfa and
sainfoin), from appropriate sources including CGIAR Institutes and renowned universities, and select
material suitable for Kyrgyz conditions; (b) test and screen such material for different ecological
conditions and market requirements; (c) further improve/adapt such material to the extent needed to
maintaini germplasm collections and release adequate quantities of breeder seed of preferred, existing and
new varieties; and (d) ensure prompt release of preferred varieties. The breeding units would concentrate
their efforts on the implementationi and evaluation of finislhed cereal varieties and forage germplasm, so
as to accelerate the flow of new varieties for testing and reduce the costs involved. For cereal varieties, it
is anticipated that most of this material should come from  ICARDA  (International Center for
Agricultural Research in Dry Areas) and CIMMYT (International Maize and Wheat Improvement
Center). ICARDA may also be able to assist in providing trial material of the forage species. It will also
be the responsibilities of the CRI and FPRI to maintain new and existing varieties which have been
officially released and to undertake rapid bulking up to the breeder seed generation. To make this



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                     2 0
possible, the project would provide assistance to breeding units to adopt modern breeding technology by
providing training and study tours for its teciical staff and participating seed growers.  During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained fron the government that: (ac) he CRI and FPRI wvould, hy
March 31 of each year (or such other clale aigreed wilh IDA), submil lo IDA f/r its review, their (annzual
seed breeding program77s; (b) inmniediately thereaffer, finalize said prrograms taiking in! o conws deruion
IDA 's comnmenis thereon: and (c) ccarmy oul such p)rogramns ini accordance wvith their term.s. IDA credit
withdrawals for CRI's and FPRI's seed breeding activities Would be made ulider programlis acceptable to
IDA.
3.16    Multiplication of Super Elite and Elite Seed. For cereals (wheat, barley and maize), the main
specialized producer of early generationi seed, i.e., Super Elite and Elite generatiolns, woLIld be the NPOZ
farn at Djal. The FPRI seed farm (Sokoluk rayon) would hiandle multiplication of alfalfa and sainfoill
varieties. In order to commercialize operations of the seed enterprises and ensure full cost recovery (by
replacing existing budgetary funding of these farms), the governmenit would disburse IDA credit fLunids to
NPOZ and FPRI farms, subject to cost recovery, on terms and conditionis acceptable to IDA (para. 4.17).
These funds will finanice incremenital investmenits and working capital requiremenits. The farims w ill sell
Super Elite and Elite seed to commercial seed production farms at a premium  price for fuLthier
multiplication and eventual sale to farmers. They may also undertake this multiplication themilselves to
supplement income. The NPOZ and FPRI farms would repay project finanice from proceeds of seed
sales. The farms would maintaini separate accounts for project-financed seed activities. The CRI and
FPRI breeding units would owin new varieties of seed and allow NPOZ/Djal, or othier authorized farms,
to produce and market Super Elite and Elite seed of new varieties. These NPOZ and Djal farms would
pay a fixed percentage of the sale proceeds of Super Elite and Elite seed, as royalty to CRI and FPRI
breeding units toward the cost of variety development.
3.17   Pilot Commercial Seed Production. To facilitate the start-up of commercial seed productioni in
the private sector, the MAWR, in collaboration with the Agrarian Academy, would select on the basis of
criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 4.16), thiree newly privatized seed farms - one in each of the main
growing areas: Chui, Osh, and Issyk-Kul - whichi would be contracted by the Seed Unit in MAWR to
serve as models for the development of the commercial seed sector. These pilot farms would serve as
demonstration and training ground for other seed farm managers and techinicianis. and RADCs. At the
same time, they would also increase the production of quality seeds and demonstrate the advantage of
using such seeds, thus developing the market for good seeds. The MOFE would provide IDA credit
funds to the three pilot farms subject to cost recovery, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para.
4.17). The IDA credit would finance mainly the repair of essential buildings, purchase of seed cleaning
and farm equipment, including for each farm, a combine and a seed drill.
3.18   Review of Seed Farms' Investment Proposals. MAWR's Seed Unit, in association witlh PIU,
will be responsible to: (i) assess feasibility of subprojects proposed by super elite and elite seed farms
(NPOZ farm at Djal and FPRI seed farm at Sokoluk) and the selected private commercial seed farms
(paras. 3.16 and 3.17) and (ii) recommend to MOFE or its authorized representative (e.g. PIU), the
amount of project finance that should be provided for eligible subprojects, taking into account IDA
recommendations on the feasibility studies. It would also be the condition of MOFE's project finanice to
CRI, FPRI and the farms engaged in the multiplication of Super Elite and Elite seed that the varieties
produced by them would be made available to other registered Super Elite and Elite seed producers. with
seed breeding units compensated adequately (using market-based prices), following the rules of the
proposed Plant Breeders' Rights Law. A project finance contract indicating the obligations of each party
would be signed by MAWR/MOFE and the farm management/s (para. 4. 17). Seed producers wishinig to
produce Super Elite and Elite seed would need to register with MAWR's seed unit using criteria to be



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                     21
agreed with IDA. During negotiations, the government agreed to ensure that. (a) the seed production
eniterprises, selected according to criteria acceptable to IDA, would submit to IDA for its review, by
September 30 of each year, feasibility studies with reconmmendations (including those on cost recovery)
for the production of seed to be financed under the Credit; (b) immediately thereafter, finalize said
reconmmendations taking into consideration IDA's comments thereon; and (c) carry out such
recommendations in accordance with their terms.
3.19    In coordinating seed production, the Seed Unit of MAWR would maintain close contacts with
relevant Rural Advisory and Development Centers (RADCs). RADCs' mandate would include, at
farmers' request: (a) variety testing at the centers and on farmers' fields; (b) provision of advice and
technical support to farmers in the production of good quality farmer-saved seed; and (c) demonstration
of early generations of public domain varieties. For the pilot private commercial farms (para. 3.17), the
RADCs would represent a source of readily available technical expertise in agronomy, business
management, and machinery operation. Tlhrough variety testing activities, RADCs would provide a
meeting ground for researchers, farmers and seed growers to assess demand for new varieties. To
facilitate these close contacts, financial assistance to pilot commercial seed farms would be granted, as
much as feasible, in conjunctioni witlh local RADCs.
3.20   Official Variety Testing.  The project would strengtlhen the capacity of MAWR's State
Commission on Variety Testing to test new varieties by: (a) streamlining the service, maintaining only
the minimum required number of locations (four for cereals, of which two responsible for maize), thus
ensuring thlat scarce budgetary resources are used for those centers which remain active in their
mandated tasks; (b) introducing modern experimental and data analysis procedures; (c) introducing tests
for distinctiveniess, uniformity, stability (DUS), particularly to obtain detailed variety descriptions which
will be required for plant variety protection; and (d) publishing and disseminating test results,
particularly througlh the advisory service, so as to allow farmers to make inforned variety choices. Plot
machinery would be provided at four main testing stations (Bishkek, OshI, Issyk-Kul and Talas), together
with miscellanieous laboratory equipment for measuring quality attributes of new cereal and forage
varieties. The project would also provide computer equipment, technical assistance, and training.
3.21   Seed Certification. The project would support the development of an effective seed testing and
certificationi calpacity. Seed certification for commercial seed would be compulsory initially (following
the provisions of the new seed law), but would be expected to move to a voluntary basis after the
project's mid-term review, that is after about three years (para. 2.20). The project would provide for: (a)
strengtheninlg the Republican Seed Inspectorate and developing its capacity to technlically support
regional and local seed quality control laboratories; (b) relocating and equipping the central seed
laboratory to a standard that will enable ISTA accreditation, and providing minimum supplementary
laboratory equipment for six regional laboratories; and (c) providing training and technical assistance to
facilitate the introductioni of efficient certification procedures. The Republican Seed Inspectorate and the
Variety Testing Commission would be merged into one Variety and Seed Testing Organization operating
under the oversight of a Deputy Minister for Crops.
3.22   Seed Unit. As part of the MAWR's proposed reorganization plans, MAWR's Seed Unit would
be strengtlheined to develop and implement seed policies, maintain registry of plant variety rights, liaise
with internationial seed organizations, and promote the development of a Kyrgyz National Seed
Association (NSA). The project would provide office equipment, a vehicle and incremental operating
costs of the Seed Unit. A seed specialist would be funded by the project to build capacity and provide
technical assistance for implementation of the overall seed component.



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                       22
3.23   The objective of the National Seed Association (NSA) would be to bring togetlher public and
private sector agencies and private seed producers committed to tl-he development of quality seed. The
NSA would provide a mechanismii for coordinatilig the flow of good quality seed from breeder to farmer
and build the concept of quality seed whiichi has been seriously eroded in recent years. The NSA would
be established in the first year of the project as a noni-goverinmental organization with a democratic
structure, open to all parties interested in producilg and selling quality seed. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that, by Decenmber 31, 1998, the Government will establish NSA with a charter
and by-laws acceptable to IDA.
(iv) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine
3.24   Current Status.  The shiift, during the transition, in the provision of farn  inputs from  the
governmenit or parastatals to the private sector requires the governmtnent to reassess its role. This applies
in particular witlh respect to the supply of agro-chemicals where there is still a major public sector
interest, especially with respect to consumer protection, user safety and prevention of disease and insect
resistance. As such the governmenit is drafting a new set of regulations but this process, and in particular
the implementation of these regulations is limited by budgetary constraints followed by low salary of
staff, poor managemenit, inadequate equipment, and the  lack of modern  technical expertise.
Consequently, MAWR's regulatory services are working much below acceptable levels. There has been
as yet no external fundinig for these services, except for an on-going review under a TACIS project.
3.25   The overall objective of the componient is, therefore, to assist the government to develop pest
managemenit systems for the country that warranits user safety, public hiealth and environmental and
agronomic sustainability. The project will not directly fhianlce the import or purchase of pesticides, but
help develop a system of sustainable pest management, by (i) assisting the government to develop the
framework and tools to ascertain the use and marketing of appropriate and safe pest control methods; and
(ii) educating farmers in safe and sustainable pest preventioni and control. The government intends to
introduce a new law on pesticides and pest control. A draft of this law was reviewed during appraisal by
an FAO expert and the new version provides for increased relevance to current and future conditionis, and
increased precision and clarity. The Kyrgyz authorities have indicated a general acceptance of the nlew
draft and recognized the need to revise current rules for pesticide registration. At negotiations, it was
agreed that by August 31, 1998, the government would submit to the Parliament a draft law, satisfactory
to IDA, on pesticides and pest control, in the context qf an IPM approach. This would supplement the
assistance given directly to farmers through the project-assisted RADCs, and complement the techilical
assistance behig provided by the EU and ADB for MAWR's re-organization and redefinitioll of
funlictiolls.
3.26   In line with the internationial understanding on pest managemenit, it is governmenit policy to
encourage the use of integrated pest management (IPM). The government regards the proposed project
as the first critical step in support of this policy. As a follow-up, the governmenit (MAWR) would
introduce a systematic. phased effort to introduce diverse IPM approachies suchI as biological control,
cultural practices, and the development and use of crop varieties that are resistaiit or tolerant to pests.
ITle project-assisted RADS would be the vehicle that would be available to the government, to reach
IPM messages to farmers and farmer groups. At negotiations, it was agreed that the government would
issue by June 30, 1999. a Manual on Pesticide Management and Application, Crop Protection and Plant
Quarantine acceptable to IDA, for use by RADCs, traders and farners, outlinin1g environmenitally sound
practices that must be followed in the management of agricultural chemicals and pesticides including
their distributioll, hanidlinlg and utilization. It was also agreed that the Government would ensure that
RADCs advise farnmers andfarm?er groups on pesticide use only when such use is justified under an IPM



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                         23
approach, and submit to IDA, by December 31 of each year, reports on compliance by RADCs with this
obligation, and take into consideration IDA 's comments on these reports, including ways to improve
comnpliance with this obligation..
3.27   In the spheres of plant quarantine and crop protection, the project would assist in the following
specific initiatives:
a)     Crop Protection. Support the development and implementation of a pesticide registration system
and of regulations and procedures covering the safe distribution and use of pesticides, and
monitoring of pesticides utilization and residue contents in the context of an IPM approach. The
project will establish two laboratories to international standards, one in the north (Bishkek) and
one in the south (Osh) to analyze pesticides, and re-equip each of the six (oblast-level) centers
whose role will be to monitor the compliance with the new law. The project would finance
critical facilities for the operations of the two laboratories and the six oblast-level centers,
including vehicles; computers; communication equipment; technical assistance; staff training; and
incremental operating costs.
b)     Plant Quarantine. The project would rehabilitate on a pilot basis quarantine facilities at two sites
(Bishkek and Osh) to improve quarantine controls on imported plants and plant produce
consignments, and finance: (i) vehicles, computers and office equipment; (ii) membership of the
European Plant Protection Organization (EPPO); (iii) technical assistance (a legal specialist) to
review quarantine regulations and procedures; and (iv) incremental operating expenses
3.28   MAWR's State Inspectorate for Plant Quarantine will update plans and cost estimates for
rehabilitation of the (Bishkek and Osh) Plant Quarantine Centers, consistent with international (EPPO)
standards for laboratory equipment and operation, and the requirements of the 1987 Montreal Protocol
on Ozone Depleting Substances including amendments thereto, which would require the approval of IDA
before these investments are made. Under the recently amended Montreal Protocol, the calculated levels
of consumption and production of the controlled substances do not include the amounts used by a
country for quarantine and pre-shipment applications. During negotiations, an understanding was
reached that, by December 31, 1998, the government would submit to IDA, for its review, feasibility
studies for the rehabilitation ofplant quarantine centers in Bishkek and Osh and, immediately thereafter,
finalize saidfeasibility studies taking into consideration IDA 's comments thereon.
3.29   There is no justification for keeping an extensive network of stations and laboratories which
would by force remain ill-equipped and understaffed. For plant quarantine, only about half the number
of rayons should retain stations, and that new points of entry would be staffed primarily by re-
deployment of local personnel. Besides the proposed rehabilitation of ACSPP's Bishkek and Osh
centers, there are a number of rayon stations which cannot be maintained. At negotiations, an assurance
was obtained ihat, by December 31, 1999, the government would submit to IDA for its review, a plan for
the consolidation of existing quarantine laboratories and centers at the rayon level; and imnmediately
thereafter, finalize said plan taking into consideration IDA 's comments thereon, and carry out such plan
in accordance with its terms.
(v) Agricultural Market Information
3.30   Market Information System (MIS). The project would provide equipment, technical assistance
and training for the establishment of a nation-wide agricultural MIS building upon the pilot project
which is currently underway in two oblasts, Talas and Issyk-Kul, with financing provided by the British
Know How Fund (KHF). The KHF pilot, which was recently extended to December 1997 includes the



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                     24
recruitment and traininig of the MIS staff for the four oblasts not covered by the existing pilot project;
institutional strengthieninig of the State Department of Anti-Moniopoly Policy (SDAP) and the National
Statistical Committee (NSC); and support to Kyrgyz Standard (KS) and Kyrgyz Agrotech project
(KATP) for evaluation of grades and standards.
3.31   The MIS would collect, process, and disseminate agricultural market information for the benefit
of producers, processors, traders and policy-makers. It would help increase the transparency of market
transactions; transmit incenitives and opportunities to agricultural producers; improve producers'
bargaining position; stimulate competition among traders; and expand processors' and consumers'
choices in product selection.
3.32   Initially, the MIS's commodity and informationi coverage will be somewhat limited (farm gate,
wholesale and retail prices for major agricultural commodities) whichi would be expanded, in phases, to
include all major agricultural inputs, outputs, and processed products, and report on prices at various
levels (farm gate, wholesale, retail, and buying and selling prices of agro-processors) and on production,
market arrivals and volumes traded.
3.33   By about the end of Year I of the project, MIS would begin to provide information on
international prices, initially starting with FSU. Also, MIS cannot be effective unless prices are related
to commodity standards and grades, which makes the marketing system function in an orderly manner.
The MIS work program and staff development includes a well-designed strategy to achieve these
objectives. Specific proposals for project support would include: updating standards and grades for
priority commodities, especially those intended for export to CIS and other countries; dissemination of
informationi on standards and grades; preparing legal framework for enforcing the use of standards and
grades in market transactions; and strengthening MIS to report market information with reference to
standards and grades.
(vi) Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
3.34   MAWR would establish a project implementation unit (PIU) to coordinate the overall project
implementation (and taking account of the services already available from the PIU established uider IDA-
assisted Sheep Development Project). The implementation of individual components/activities will be
entrusted to respective MAWR departments, SALMLR, Agrarian Academy (CRI, FPRI); the seed farms;
RADS' national secretariat and RADCs. The project would provide for finanlcinlg of PIU's management
costs including the cost of a national project director; an expatriate project implementation advisor (for
eighteeni monthis) and national procurement and financial management specialists.
D.    PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
3.35   Total project costs are estimated at US$30.2 million, of which 66 percent would be foreign
exchange part of the costs. Project costs are net of taxes and duties whicih will be reimbursed by the
government. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 and shiowin in more detail in Annex B. Physical
contingencies have been included at 10 percent on civil works, equipment, vehicles and printing of land
certificates. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the annual projected inflation rates
applied to local and foreign costs, including physical contingenicies. Price contiligenicies equal to about II
percent of the base costs.



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                                    25
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs
(SOM Million)                                (US$ Million)
Foreign           Foreign as  % Total
I  %      Base
Component                                   Local   Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign   Total    of Total    Costs
A. Land and Agrarian Reform                   14.22    55.87    70.09          0.81     3.19     4.01          75     15
B. Advisory Services (RADS)
Advisory and Development Services           34.80     25.46    60.26          1.99     1.45     3.44          42     14
TIIrai;iiing, Credit & Secretariat          23.04     60.24    83.28          1.32     3.44     4.76          72     19
Field Demonstration and Adaptive Research    9.07     13.29    22.36          0.52     0.76     1.28          59     5
Group Development                            5.81     15.22    21.02          0.33     0.87     1.20          72     5
Subtotal                                     72.71    114.20   186.91          4.15     6.53    10.68         61      42
C. Seed Industry Development
Crop Breeding (CRI Program)                  3.78     24.59    28.37          0.22     1.41     1.62          87     6
Forage Breeding (FPRI Program)                1.87     5.85     7.71          0.11     0.33     0.44          76     2
Super E:lite and Elite Seed ProductioIn      2.17     16.40    18.57          0.12     0.94     1.06          88     4
CoInmmercial Seed Multiplication             3.54     24.70    28.25          0.20     1.41     1.61          87     6
Seed Unit in MAWR                             1.80     7.54     9.33          0.10     0.43     0.53         81      2
Official Variety resting                     6.20     27.75    33.95          0.35     1.59     1.94          82     8
Seed Certification                           3.15      4.78     7.93          0.18     0.27     0.45          60     2
Subtotal                                     22.51    111.60   134.11          1.29     6.38     7.66         83      30
D. Crop Protection
IPIlant Quarantine                           5.65      5.32    10.97          0.32     0.30     0.63         49      3
Crop Protection                              2.12     10.20    12.32          0.12     0.58     0.70          83     3
Subtotal                                      7.77     15.53    23.29          0.44     0.89     1.33         67      5
E. Agricultural Market Information System    10.79     15.69    26.49          0.62     0.90     1.51         59      6
Subtotal                                     10.79     15.69    26.49          0.62     0.90     1.51          59     6
F. Project Implementation Unit                6.84      6.69    13.53          0.39     0.38     0.77         49      3
Total BASE COSTS *                         134.83   319.58   454.42           7.70    18.26    25.97          70    100
Physical Contingencies                       4.53     17.05    21.58          0.26     0.97     1.23          79     5
Price Contingencies                         38.42     13.40    51.82          2.20     0.77     2.96          26     11
Total PROJECT COST                         177.78   350.04   527.82          10.16    20.00    30.16          66    116
* Excluding taxes and duties. Figures/total may slightly vary due to rounding.
E.      PROJECT FINANCING
3.36    An IDA  credit of SDR  11.1 million (equivalent of US$14.98 millioni) will finance about 49.7
percent of total project costs and 74.9 percent of the foreign exchange part of the project costs. IFAD is
expected to co-finanice RADS component up to a total of US$7.9 million, covering about 26.2 percent of
total project cost. The remainder of the RADS cost would be financed by IFAD throughi the on-going
Sheep Development Project (US$1.8 million), following the proposed integration of SDP's livestock
advisory services with RADS. Bilateral donors (Swiss, GTZ and KHF) have reached understandings with
the government to provide grants amounting to about US$2.1 million equivalent, of whichi US$1 million
will finance technical assistance and the balance of US$1.1 million, vellicles and operating expenditures for



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                   26
the on-going pilot projects.  Project beneficiaries would contribute about US$1.2 million and the
Government would finance the balance at US$2.2 million (plus taxes and duties, if any). The project would
receive a total financing of US$3.88 million for techinical assistance and US$1.87 million for training as
shlowni in the table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2 Financing of Technical Assistance and Training
(US$ million)
Source of Financing                 Technical      Training       Total
Assistance
1. Bilateral grants                                    1.00           -            1.00
2. IDA Credit                                          1.44          0.41          1.85
3. IFAD loan for the proposed ASSP                     1.04          0.97          2.01
4. IFAD loan for SDP (livestock advisory services)     0.40          0.49          0.89
Total                       3.88          1.87          5.75
3.37          Financing of the project costs would be in the amounts and proportions shown in Table 3.3.
As a condition of IDA credit effectiveness, the government will open a Project Account in a commercial
bank and nmake an initial deposit of an amount in Somn equivalent to US$25,000 into such account. At
negotiations, the government agreed to maintain the Project Account during the execution of the project,
and deposit semi-annually an amount of Son, acceptable to IDA, into such account, toward its budgetary
contribution for the project.
F.    STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.38   Initial preparation studies were undertaken by Euroconsult, Netherlanids, and the FAO Investmenit
Ceniter working with the MAWR. Euroconsult carried out farm studies and worked on proposals for seed
and post-privatization on-farm support. The FAO Investment Center reviewed and developed the adaptive
research program. A joint IDA/IFAD mission visited the Kyrgyz Republic in October 1996 and reached a
broad agreement with MAWR on the components to be included in the project. Subsequently, in February
1997, the MAWR asked IDA to include the Land and Agrarian Reform Component in the project which
was prepared by an IDA appraisal mission in collaboration with MAWR and SALMLR during June-August
1997. The IDA post-appraisal and IFAD appraisal missions (November 1997) finalized the project design
and implementation arrangements in consultation with the Government's relevant ministries and
departments. The State Foreign Investment and Economic Aid Commission (Goskominvest) approved the
project for IDA/IFAD financing in January 1998.
3.39   Substantial preparatory and pilot work done by the government, with assistance from donors, has
significanitly reduced the risk of implementation delays usually attributed to project complexity. The
involvement of RCLAR and SALMLR in defining the Land and Agrarian Reforn component and the
technical assistance (up to US$0.8 million) which the British KHF has agreed, in principle, to support
RCLAR and SALMLR, will facilitate an early start on implementationi of this componenit. As regards
the Rural Advisory and Development Service (RADS), in each of the six oblasts, at least one advisory
center has already been established: in Clhui, Naryn, Dzalal-Abad, Issk-Kul and Talas oblasts under the
EU-TACIS program; in Naryn, Dzalal-Abad, and Osh oblasts under the Swiss program; and in OsIh
oblast under the Dutch program. FAO has provided techinical assistance for preparation of the seed, crop
protection and plant quarantine components including the review of the proposed legal framework, while
the British KHF has funded the establishment of MIS in two oblasts, which has become operational. The



CHAPTER 3: THE PROJECT                                                                                   27
project implementation will benefit from the organizations established and experience gained from the
above initiatives and the on-going implementation of the IDA-assisted Sheep Development Project.
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total        % of total
Financing Source                                                                _    project costs
(US$ nillion equivalent)
IDA                                                   3.0        12.0       15.0               49.7
IFAD                                                   2.5        5.4        7.9               26.2
SDP /a                                                 1.1        0.7         1.8               6.0
SWISS                                                  0.4        0.5        0.9                3.0
GTZ                                                    0.3        0.1        0.4                 1.4
KHF                                                   0.2         0.6        0.8                2.5
Government                                             2.0        0.2        2.2                 7.1
Beneficiaries                                          0.7        0.5        1.2                4.1
Total                                                 10.2       20.0       30.2               100.0
Percent of Total                                       33.7       66.3      100.0 I
* Figures/totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
a/ The livestock advisory services component of the Sheep Development Project (SDP) will be merged with the ASSP's
integrated rural advisory services (RADS) which will also be financed by IFAD.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Overall Project Management
4.1     The MAWR departments and other agencies that will be involved in the project implementation are
shown in Table 4.1 below. Figure 1.2 shows the organizational and management arrangements for the
project. The primary responsibility for project implementation will rest with the Minister of Agriculture
and Water Resources, who will chair an inter-agency Project Steering Commnittee (PSC) which will be
established to provide oversight and coordination, as well as approve annual work plans and budgets. The
PSC members would include MAWR's Deputy Ministers responsible for individual components: MOFE
representative; the President of the Agrarian Academy; and representatives of farmer and other non-
governmental organizations working in the rural sector. Besides the Chairman, the PSC will have no more
than five members. During negotiations, an agreement was reached that, by August 31, 1998, the
Government will establish and, thereafter maintain until the completion of the project, the PSC' with
composition and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA; and carry out the prolect through MA WR
with participation of SALMLR; CRI, FPRI and selected seed farms; SIPQ and ACSPP; and NMC in
respective components (Table 4.1).
Table 4.1: Project Implementing Agencies by Component
Component                      F                 Implementing Agency
1. Land and Agrarian Reform (Farm Restructuring Support)   MAWR - Republican and Oblast Centers for Land and.
Agrarian Reform.
SALMLR - State Agency for Land Management and Land
Resources.
2. (i) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS)  RASC/RADS Foundation/RADCs. Rural Advisory Steering
(ii) Small Farmer Credit (Farm Development Fund)   Council (RASC); the RAIDS Foundation (registered as a
farmer-dominated, autonomous, non-profit, foundation) with a
national secretariat; Oblast Steering Councils and Rural
Advisory Development Centers, with support from MAWR
and  the institutes of Agrarian  Academy, agricultural
universities and contract researchers.
KAFC in collaboration with UNDP and RADCs
3. Seed Industry Development                         MAWR:  Seed. Unit and Variety Development and Seed
Testing Organization;-
Agrarian Academy:  Crop Research Institute (CRI) and
Forage and Pasture  Research  Institute  (FPRII)  Super
Elite/Elite Seed Farns (3); and Private Commercial Seed
Farms (3);I
4. Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine              MAWR: State Inspectorate of Plant Quarantine (SIPQ) and
the Agency for Chemical Supply and Plant Protection
I(ACSPP)
5. Agricultural Market Information System            MAWR: NMC for MIS and the MIS Unit in MAWR
6. MAWR Capacity Building                            MAWR (PItJ._
4.2     The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in MAWR, already established, will be responsible for
coordinating the project implementation. The PIU's main responsibilities will include: (a) oversight on
project implementation including providing guidance to, and coordination among agencies involved in



Figure 1.2
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Organization and Management
.i3~~~~~~~jec  : ~~~~~~~~~Minister
Steering  ..............................                       MAWR l
Committee
Project                      Deputy Minister/s
.....    Director                        M R
(PIU)                          MAWIIR        l
Project           Components
Rural Advisory and            Land & Agrarian Reform                       Seed I dustry                    Crop Protection           Agricultural  arket
Development Service             (Farm Restructuring)                       Development                      & Plant Quarantine        Information System(MIS)
National
RuralAdio. yRC.A.We..SALMLR [Agra                                        Sn                                                               Steering
Steering Council   :                                             Academy  :         Unit                                               *  Committee for
:......... ..........                       .... ..                 CRI and FPRI       MAWR                             |                  *       MIS
_                        ,              , _  _   _ _          '               ',~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ Agency for,:  MIS 
RADS Foundation                                                     Pilot      Variety & Seed            State         Chemical               Unit
_    Seed           Testing           Inspectorate of    Supply &
Secretariat                                                     Farms        Organizations       Plant Protection    Plant
(SIPQ)    ::Protection:
(ACSPP)
Rgpeseat coorftdb&I
or Sutlolous agebic
R_2 Lim A



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                        30
the implementation of individual project components; (b) undertake procurement of goods and services; (c)
accounting and financial management of project funds; (d) arrange audit of project accounts;(e) monitoring
and evaluation of project performance including the preparation of progress reports; and (f) liaise with the
national and local governments to ensure effective implementation of the project. The PIU will work under
the direction of a national Project Director who has been recruited, using competitive selection procedures.
The national project director will, however, be under study (on the job training) for the initial one year and
will work in collaboration with an internationally recruited Project Implementation Advisor (PIA). The
PIA will be contracted for about 18 months, will take full responsibility for all aspects of project
implementation during the first year of the project, and during the following six months, assist PIU in an
advisory capacity. As a condition of negotiations, the Government also finalized, in consultation with
IDA, the Letter of Invitation (LOI) to international firms to submit bids for the PIU advisory assignment,
including the terms of reference of this assignment.  The Government will appoint a Project
Implementation Advisor prior to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit. During negotiations, the government
agreed that, throughout the execution of the project, it would maintain the PIU with sufficient number of
qualified staff, adequate facilities and resources, satisfactory to IDA. It was also agreed that the
Government will exercise its rights under the PlUAdvisory Agreement in a manner acceptable to IDA in
order to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and would not assign, abrogate, amend or waive the PIU
Advisory Agreement without the concurrence of IDA. The execution of the PIU Advisory Agreement
between the government and the PIU Advisor, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of IDA credit
effectiveness.
(i) Land and Agrarian Reform (Farm Restructuring Support)
4.3    Role ofRCLARICLAR and SALMLR. The implementation strategy for this component is to use
existing governmental institutions at the republican (national), oblast and rayon levels, namely, the
RCLAR, CLARs and SALMLR, which would be strengthened and supported by the project. No new
organizations or bodies will be created. While the PIU will coordinate and oversee the component
implementation, a Land Reform Specialist, a Legal Specialist, M & E Specialist, and a Land Auction and
Leasing Specialist will be attached directly to RCLAR. A Legal Specialist, though attached to MAWR
would coordinate with SALMLR, the Ministry of Justice, and the President's and Prime Minister's offices
on issues concerning land and related legal reform issues. The Farm Management Specialist, working
closely with existing TACIS-assisted farm survey activities in Chui oblast, will assist the local
Agribusiness Center, in carrying out farm restructuring activities.  Building on the earlier donor
collaboration, MAWR will place a Training Specialist (preferably Russian speaking) in the Agrarian
Academy, for designing and implementing training-of-trainers programs, including the preparation of
training modules/materials. These core trainers will then train CLARs, village governments and farmer
representatives in topics such as Land and Agrarian law and p:rocedures, the establishment of new
enterprises, and monitoring of farm performance. On-the- job training will be provided by TA specialists
to the national staff for local capacity building.
4.4    As a condition of negotiations, the Government provided to IDA, a position paper on land and
agrarian reform issues, reinforcing its commitment to implement various activities proposed by the
project. Additionally, following the recent international agricultural conference held in Bishkek in
December 1997, the government issued a resolution (No. 773 of December 1997) incorporating the
recommendations of the conference on land and agrarian reform which are in accord with ASSP-supported
activities, and inter alia focus on debt resolution for new enterprises; strengthening of the legal framework;
and operational strategies to complete the issuance of land use right certificates and commence land
auctions. The Draft Land Code (second version) and the Draft Law "On State Registration of Rights on
Immovable Property are currently under discussion by the Parliament (paras. 2.6 and 2.7).



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                      31
(ii) Rural Advisory and Development Service (RADS)
4.5    RADS. In order to ensure autonomy, professional competence and operational efficiency in
delivering technical services and business advice to numerous farmers and farmer groups, the RADS has
been established as a non-governmental, farmer-dominated and non-profit Foundation (paras. 2.10 and
2.11). This model is based on the concepts successfully used in the country for the EU-TACIS Agricultural
Training and Advisory Service (ATAS).  The RADS Foundation sponsors will include farmer
representatives drawn from the six oblasts, the Government (MAWR and MOFE) and bilateral donors. By
ensuring that farmer representatives remain in the majority, both as sponsors of the RADS Foundation, and
as members of the national-level Rural Advisory Steering Council (RASC), the RADS is expected to
remain fully oriented to farmer needs. At the same time, since the bulk of the RADS initial financing will
be provided by the government (with IFAD co-financing), the ultimate control over channeling of the funds
will unavoidably rest with the government. For this reason, the RADS will function as a semi-autonomous
institution, until it becomes, over a period, a self-financing organization. Another important feature of the
RADS will be that its management will remain decentralized as RADCs at the oblast and rayon levels will
function as the main grassroots level resource management and operating units.
4.6    Rural Advisory Steering Council (RASC).  The RASC will be the highest permanent
management body for the RADS. RASC's Chairman would be appointed by the President and/or the Prime
Minister and will have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and IFAD. The RASC Chairman
would be the main link between the RADS and the rest of the project (including the government and the
Agrarian Academy), as both the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources and the President of the
Agrarian Academy will be the members of RASC. Other members of the RASC will include the
representatives of key government agencies, including the President's/Prime Minister's Offices; the
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE); farmer associations (one from each oblast); and donors.
Finally, the charter of the RADS Foundation will provide for a flexible institutional structure, so that
RADS could effectively respond to the changing economic and sectoral environment. The RASC will
oversee the implementation of the component through approval of annual work plans and budget prepared
by the Secretariat in collaboration with RADCs. Each RADC would prepare an annual work plan and
budget using the format and schedule agreed with IDA, for approval by RASC, and review by IDA during
project supervisions.
4.7    The RADS will have a national Secretariat in Bishkek which will be headed by a General Manager
and will include technical specialists as well as support staff for personnel management, training,
accounting and financial management. Two international advisers (extension and training) will be attached
directly to the Secretariat. In addition, a media unit will be located in the Secretariat although its principal
clients will be the RADCs. The Secretariat will be responsible for the component implementation, in liaison
with the MAWR (line departments) on technical matters and MOFE on financial matters. The Secretariat,
being autonomous, would have the authority to: (a) open and operate bank accounts; (b) select and hire
staff for itself and RADCs, and (c) sub-contract activities to various agencies and NGOs. The
Secretariat's responsibilities would include:  policy development; RADC administration; financial
management and control; advice to media unit; and monitoring of RADC performance.



Kyrgyz Republic                                               Figure 1.3
Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS) and Micro Credit
Organization and Management
RADS                                                                    Micro Credit
Rural                                RADS                                                    __
Advisory                             Foundation                                                 KAFC
Steering    :----------                         --_   - __
Council     ,                       Secretariat                                                  HQ
(RASC)
.. ,___ , ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                  ........    Obasry-on
ObasRDCs                 lOblastUrayon                                         l
'-------                                                                IKAFCoffices
Oblast
Steering      ..I
Council/s                              Rayon                                                  Farmers &
-----            Centers              .-Farmer Groups
Farmers &
Farmer Groups
Represents coordinating and I or
autonomous agencies
Represents line agencies



Kyrgyz Republic                                               Figure 1.4
Agricultural Support Services Project
Organizational Structure of Rural Advisory and Development Centers (RADCs)
Agrarian Academy                 RADC                     Secretariat
Other Research    .           Manger
......  .... . . . .
Farm Management
______ __  Advisor
(Subject Matt r Specialists)
Mechar~lsation      Agroomy                    Livestock     Eco omics  Women's
Development
Rayon Centers
24 Advisors
Farmers and
Farrers Groups
-Rpresent coordinating and I or
autonomous agencies
Represent line agencies
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~



CHAPTER 4: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION                                                         34
4.8    Figure 1.3 shows RADCs' proposed structure. RADCs will be the main vehicles to deliver
advisory and development services to farmers and farmer groups and will have the following main
responsibilities: (a) prepare and implement technical programs in advisory services; (b) carry out on-
farm demonstrations and field trials on farmers' fields at farmers' request; (c) commission local adaptive
research contracts; (d) manage oblast and rayon level staff and maintain accounts; (e) liaise with local
governments; and (g) disseminate information. RADC Managers will be responsible for the development
of annual work plans for their respective oblasts, under the overall guidance of local Oblast Steering
Councils (OSCs). The OSCs which will comprise of representatives of farmners, NGOs, and government
agencies from within the oblast, will play the same pivotal role as the RASC will do at the national level,
in terms of ensuring that RADS remains client-responsive.
4.9   In addition to the Manager, there will be five specialist staff and two administrative staff as well
as a TA-financed advisor, either from the associate donors (Swiss, GTZ) or from local UN volunteers or
equivalent. The group development adviser (financed by Swiss grant) will also work at RADC level,
though based in Bishkek. RADCs' rayon offices will be staffed by two or three extension advisors
capable of giving a broad range of advice to farmers. They will also advise farmers where to go for
additional help, whether to the specialists in RADC oblast offices, to the rayon land reform offices, to
KAFC or to research institutes, as necessary. There will be no need for a formal committee structure at
the rayon level.
4.10   As a condition of negotiations, the government. (a) approved the Charter for the establishment
of the RADS Foundation and registered this Foundation, as a legal entity, with the Ministry of Justice;
(b) issued a friamework agreement in a format acceptable to IFAD, for the establishment of a small
farmer credit program (Farm Development Fund in KAFC), duly signed by the KAFC, UNDP and the
government; and (c) confirmed that the existing legal and administrative arrangements permit the
establishment of: (c) farmer-dominated Steering Committees for the RADS; and farmer
groups/associations which would be RADCs' target clientele.
4.11   Farm Development Fund (FDF). The government will establish a Farm Development Fund in
KAFC with an equity contribution of US$1.5 million from the Loan provided by IFAD, under a
subsidiary agreement to be signed by the Government and KAFC.  KAFC will operate FDF in
coordination with but outside the RADS, using its (KAFC's) institutional structure already in place.
KAFC will give authority to its regional managers to approve subloans to small-holders initially up to
about US$1,000. This is seen as a necessary institutional development for KAFC if it is to efficiently
serve its institutional mandate to finance the agricultural sector. The small-farmer credit program will be
implemented through a three-party agreement under which: (a) KAFC will provide financial services;
(b) UNDP (with technical assistance of US$0.5 million to be provided outside the project) will develop
credit-worthy groups; and (c) RADS/RADCs will provide technical services.
4.12   KAFC has prepared a lending operations Manual to provide practical guidance to the operating
staff covering procedures for lending under the IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project's Small Farmers
Credit Outreach Program (para. 1.10). In addition to the lending under SFCOP, KAFC would use the
ASSP-assisted Farm Development Fund (FDF) to provide subloans mainly to poorer farmers on a group
basis, who would not qualify for credit even under the liberal criteria proposed to be used by SFCOP.
The FDF window will be mainly for banking with the poor, by providing non-collateralized credits using
group dynamics and by developing a credit culture and discipline among farmers. This part of social
intermediation is currently being supported by UNDP as part of its poverty alleviation project. Using the
proposed UNDP grant of US$0.5 million, the KAFC will build partnerships with community-based



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                        35
organizations for delivering credit to poorer farmers. As part of the project implementation, UNDP will
hire an expatriate training - cum - group development expert to strengthen the processes of training and
group formation and organize training programs exclusively for KAFC staff and guide in the appraisal of
group loans, the documentationi processes and portfolio management. KAFC and UNDP will share
information on1 their respective activities and prepare quarterly work programs for the FDF. They will
associate RADC staff with these processes.
4.13   IDA has appraised KAFC in its role as the implementing agency for the Rural Finance Project
(RFP) which is being regularly supervised. The terms and conditions for KAFC's subloans from the FDF
to farmer groups and individual farmers will also be broadly similar to those for the SFCOP component
under the RFP so that the interest rates charged by KAFC remain positive and the subloan maturities are
consistent with the production cycle. KAFC may waive or modify collateral requirements. The
executionr of the Subsidiary Agreement between the government and the KAFC would be a condition of
effectiveness for the IFAD loan, and implicitly for IDA credit, as the effectiveness of the latter is
conditional upon the IFAD loan becoming effective.
(iii) Seed Development
4.14   MAWR's coordinating/regulatory role.  MAWR's Seed Unit operating under the Deputy
Minister for Crops, would be the administrative office for all matters relating to seeds within the
Ministry. It would be responsible for promoting a policy and regulatory environment favorable for the
development of a commercially viable and diversified seed sector in which private companies can play a
significant role. Specifically, the Seed Unit would: (i) develop and implement seed policies, seed
regulations and standards; (ii) approve the registration of varieties as recommended by the Variety and
Seed Testing Organization; (iii) maintain the official registry of varieties protected by the grant of Plant
Breeding Rights; (iv) license seed producing companies which satisfy minimum standards in terms of
facilities and staff; and (v) liaise with international seed organizations concerned with seeds and
varieties. The Seed Specialist will be based within the Seed Unit and will be expected to strengthen the
institutional role of the Unit and advise on the above activities.
4.15   Seed regulatory services (including official variety testing and seed certification) would remain
part of MAWR but would be reorganized to bring all technical work concerned with seed variety testing,
seed quality control and certification, under one organization to ensure coordination and the efficient use
of the existing facilities. The two existing services (Variety Testing and Seed Inspection) would be
brought under one regulatory agency called Variety and Seed Testing Organization.
4.16   Selection Criteria for Pilot Seedfarms. The selection criteria for the three pilot commercial seed
farms which were agreed with IDA during negotiations, include the following: (a) farms should be
easily accessible and located in different agro-climatic (representative) regions; (b) farms should be
private and/or have plans to complete the privatization process in a manner acceptable to the
Government and IDA; (c) farms should have necessary managerial and technical staff, with appropriate
qualifications and experience and a demonstrable track record of producing high quality commercial
seed; (d) farms should provide adequate documentary evidence regarding the ownership of land and non-
land assets held by them; the commercial viability of the improved seed production; ability to repay
project finance for seed production; and the legal authority of the farms' representatives to sign project
finance and cost recovery agreements with MOFE or its representative; (e) farms should qualify for
selection through a competitive tendering process, acceptable to the government and IDA; and (f) the
number of farms to be selected will be three unless otherwise agreed to by IDA at the request of the
Government.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION                                                        36
4.17   Financing of Seed Farms. Finanicinig of super elite and elite seed farms and the three private
commercial seed farms will be processed by PIU in collaboration with MAWR's seed unit and the
CRI/FPRI as relevant (paras. 3.16 and 3.17). The MOFE or its designated representative (e.g. PIU) will
provide IDA Credit to eligible seed farms on the basis of project finance agreements to be signed by it
(MOFE) and the beneficiary seed farms oni the following main terms and conditions: (a) the project
finance will carry interest at rates that are positive in real terms (to be determined by MOFE annually at
the end of each calendar year) and include (i) a fee of 3-5 percent payable to a financial institution,
acceptable to IDA, which will act as MOFE's agent for account administration; and (ii) such additional
spread as MOFE might prescribe, in consultation with IDA to cover the opportunity cost of capital to the
government. The interest rate charged by MOFE will not generally exceed the prevailing interest rate/s
cilarged by commercial banks for similar working capital and/or investment credit; (b) tile MOFE will
require the seed farms to repay project finance for working capital within a period of two years, and for
capital investments within a period of seven years, taking into account the subprojects' incremental
income; projected cash flow; and the assessment of the seed farms' repaying capacity. MOFE may roll-
over the working capital finance to seed farms, on similar terms and conditions; and (c) the MOFE will
require the seed farms to provide collateral and guarantees consistent with local commercial practices.
These terms and conditions were agreed with the government during negotiations. The MOFE will
introduce such other terms and conditions as may be determined by IDA during project supervisions or
the proposed mid-term review of the project (para. 4.42). KAFC has agreed to administer project finance
accounts of the seed farms, as the agent for MOFE.
4.18   Commercialization of seed production.  MAWR is phasing out its direct support for seed
production and the majority of farms classified as seed producers are nlow in private hanids. Only some
six state-owned farms remain under the Agrarian Academy and one under MAWR. The guidelines for
seed certification, proposed to be issued by the government under a project covenant (para. 2.20) will
ensure that seed production will be open for any seed farm that is able to meet necessary legal, financial
and technical standards developed by the MAWR's Seed Unit in agreement with IDA.
4.19   Links wit/l RADCs. While the commercial seed sub-component would be coordinated by the
MAWR's Seed Unit (with PIU support), close contacts would be maintained at the regional level with
relevant RADCs (para. 3.19).
(iv) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine
4.20   The two sub-components, plant quarantine and crop protection, would be implemented by the
concerned regulatory bodies under MAWR, namely the State Inspectorate for Plant Quarantine (SIPQ)
and Agency for Chemical Supply and Plant Protection (ACSPP). The MAWR will bring the two
agencies, SIPQ and ACSPP, under the administrative control of a Deputy Minister for Crops to ensure
necessary technical coordination. The effectiveness of the present administrative set-up for the two
services will be re-assessed during the mid-term review of the project.
(v) Agricultural Market Information
4.21   MAWR will be the primary organization responsible for the establishment and conduct of MIS
in collaboration with the State Department of Anti-Monopoly Policy (SDAP); the National Statistical
Committee (NSC); Kyrgyz Standard (KS); and Kyrgyz Agrotech project (KATP), all operating at the
national and regional levels, and the six participating oblasts.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION                                                       37
4.22   The MIS's national unit at Bishkek is currently located in MAWR. The national unit would
operate under the direction of a National Management Committee (NMC) which will comprise of senior
staff from MAWR, NSC, SDAP, KS, and RADS. During negotiations, an agreement was reached that
the Government will maintain NMC until the completion of the project with composition and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. MAWR is currently reviewing its organizational structure to introduce
necessary changes to make itself more client-responsive. MAWR would inform IDA of any changes in
MIS national unit's internal organization. For information collection, processing and dissemination, the
MIS will have regional offices established in each of the six oblasts (two of which have already been
established for the pilot project). To coordinate activities in the regions, Regional MIS Management
Committees will be established comprising of oblast representatives (Agriculture Department of the
Akimiat) and oblast level SDAP, KS, and ATAS (and its successor organizations, RADCs).
4.23   As a condition of negotiations, the government issued a resolution (No. 76 dated February 13,
1998) approving the establishment of the agricultural Market Information System (MIS). The
government also established a NMC for MIS and required the agencies involved in the MIS
implementation to sign a cooperation agreement outlining their mutual responsibilities.
B.    PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.24   Procurement Responsibilities. The PIU would be responsible for carrying out all procurement
actions under the project. The PIU would include a procurement specialist, with responsibilities that will
include: (i) training of PIU and regional staff on Bank Group procurement and disbursement procedures;
(ii) developing monitoring procedures for procurement and disbursement; (iii) ensuring proper
notification of bidding opportunities; (iv) preparing specific bid documents based on the current Bank
Group Standard Bidding Documents for goods and works; (v) preparing requests for proposals (RFPs)
and terms of reference for consultants; and (vi) assisting PIU in contract administration. In addition, IDA
would monitor procurement activities, contract administration, and project record keeping during
supervision missions and assist the Government (through PIU) to organize training for the national
contractors in competitive bidding.
4.25   Procurement Procedures.  The General Procurement Notice for the Project and a Special
Procurement Notice for international recruitment of a Project Implementation Adviser for the PIU were
published in the Development Business issue of February 15, 1998. Procurement of goods and works
would follow the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 as revised
in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines)". Recruitment of consultants would
follow the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published
by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines)". The
Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works, including the Bank's
Regional standardized NCB documents for works issued in 1995. For consulting assignments, the
Borrower will use the Bank's standard form of contract. A Procurement Workshop will be held in
Bishkek immediately after the project effectiveness, tentatively scheduled for June 1998.
4.26   Procurement Arrangements. Tables 4.2 and 4.3 summarize the procurement methods and prior
and post-review procedures proposed under the project. Annex C, Table I provides a summary of the
five-year procurement plan which was reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. Details of the
proposed arrangements are as follows:
* Civil Works: The project consists of components which require construction and
rehabilitation works mainly for office and laboratory buildings. Minor Works (MWs)



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                      38
estimated to cost less thani US$100,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate amount of about
US$300,000 may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on1 the basis of
quotations from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
number of contracts under this category would be about 12. However, any work estimated to
cost above US$100,000 and below US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000
will be procured through NCB usilng Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region's Standard
Bidding Documents. The NCB contracts are expected to number about three. All contracts
estimated to cost above US$200,000 shall be procured through ICB in which case, the local
contractors will be eligible for preference in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
*  Goods: Goods including laboratory and field equipment, office equipment, and vehicles,
collated in different packages and estimated to cost more than US$200,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$6.6 million, would be procured using Internationial Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. The number of ICB subpackages would be in the range of 37 and
would be consolidated into about 21 packages.  The procurement of land certificates,
estimated to cost about US$0.8 million, usinlg ICB procedures, will be througlh a multi-year
single contract with a provision for price adjustment.  For ICB  contracts, local
manufacturers, eligible for domestic preference in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines, would be granted a domestic preference in bid evaluation equivalent to 15
percent of the CIF price, or the amount of the custom duties and other import taxes,
whichever is lower. Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment, estimated to cost less
than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$2.2 million would be procured through
International Shopping (IS) on the basis of quotations to be obtained from a minimum of
three suppliers from at least two eligible countries. The number of IS subpackages would be
about 55 which could be consolidated into an appropriate number of larger packages for
purposes of achieving necessary efficiency in procurement including a potential ICB,
especially for vehicles. Contracts for procurement of items costing less than US$50,000
would be awarded through national shopping (NS) on thie basis of three quotations obtained
from three different eligible suppliers, depending upon the availability of such items in the
Kyrgyz Republic. The number of NS contracts will be few (about seven) for an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$124,000.
*  Consultant Services: Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the
government will submit to IDA a Plan for the selection of consultants for its review and
approval. The procurement of consultant services will be undertaken in accordance with the
selection plan approved by IDA. Consultant services amounting to US$1.4 million would be
procured on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), with individual contracts
generally exceeding US$50,000.  The number of QCBS contracts will be about 12.
Contracts related to services for PIU, seed development and crop protection, estimated to
cost not less than US$25,000 may be procured using Least Cost selection procedures,
involving about six contracts for a total amount of US$133,000.  During the project
implementation, there will be some contracts, not exceeding US$25,000 per contract
(totaling about US$151,000), which will be entered into with individual consultants selected
from short-listed candidates acceptable to the IDA to carry out specific tasks such as the
preparation of training materials, case studies, legal support, and translation services. A part
of the consulting services for agricultural market information system and research services
estimated to cost approximately about US$59,000 (about five contracts) will be contracted
following the single source selection procedures. Suchi contracts will be generally for
amounts less than US$25,000 each.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                       39
* Training. The cost of IDA training is estimated at about US$ 410,000. The training
program and criteria for selection of trainers and trainees under IDA/IFAD-assisted
programs would be agreed with the two institutions. Training financed by bilateral grants
will be procured following donor procedures.
* FDFSubloans. The beneficiaries of individual or group subloans issued by KAFC from the
IFAD-funded Farm Development Fund (FDF) which are expected to range between US$100
to US$2,000 will use subloan funds for purchase of farm inputs, small equipment, spare
parts, livestock breeding stock and agricultural produce.  They will carry out the
procurement using local commercial practices. KAFC being an implementing agency for the
IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project is familiar with the Bank Group's procurement
procedures.
* Incremental operating expenses will include: (a) salaries of project staff over a period of
five years (about US$3 million) to be recruited following competitive procedures including
advertisements, interviews, etc; and (b) expenditures on maintenance of vehicles, rent, office
consumables, expenses for field visits, etc (US$6 million), which would be procured
following public procurement practices.
4.27   IDA Review: All ICB and NCB contracts would be subject to prior IDA review, as well as the
first three contracts for minor works, one each from three different oblasts; and the first two contracts
each for procurement of goods using international shopping (IS) and national shopping (NS) procedures.
4.28   With respect to Consultant Services, prior IDA review would be required for all terms of
reference, irrespective of the contract value. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$25,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review (the IDA would review the Request for Proposals, the terms of reference
and short-lists). For each contract estimated to cost US$50,000 or more, after the technical proposal has
been evaluated, the technical evaluation report would be submitted to the IDA for its review prior to the
opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost between US$25,000 and US$50,000, the
IDA would be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial
proposals. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$25,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished to IDA for its review and
approval. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA on a random basis.
4.29   An Agreement was reached during negotiations that all procurement actions under the project
wouldfollow the procedures outlined above.
4.30   A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is to be scheduled. The PIU would keep a
record of all procurement actions and furnish to IDA quarterly reports thereon, which would include
information as to: (a) revisions, if any, in cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (b)
changes in the timing of procurement actions and completion dates; and (c) compliance with aggregate
limits on specified methods of procurement. As a condition of negotiations, the government has
prepared a procurement plan for the first year of the project.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                     40
Table 4.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total
Project                                          ICB         NCB         Other /a       NBF          Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1 Rehabilitation of Laboratories/                        0.4          0.3          0.1          0.8
Office buildings                  (0.4)       (0.3) lb                   (0.7)
2. Goods
2.1  Equipment                                6.6                       1.0          0.9          8.5
(6.6)                     (1.0)                     (7.6)
2.2 Vehicles                                                            1.0          0.8          1.8
(1.0)                    (1.0)
2.3 Issuance of Land Certificates             0.8                                                 0.8
(0.8)                                               (0.8)
3. Farm  Development (Credit) Fund                                                       1.5          1.5
4. Consultancy Services and Training
4.1  Project Implementation Support                                     1.7          3.5        5.2 /c
(Consultancy services)                                            (1.7)                     (1.7)
4.2 Capacity Building                                                   0.4          2.1         2.5/d
(Training & study tours)                                         (0.4)                     (0.4)
5. Incremental Operating Cost
5.1  Project Implementation Support /e                                  1.4          1.6         3.0
(0.4)                     (0.4)
5.2 Operating Expenses /f                                               3.7          2.3          6.0
(2.3)                     (2.3)
Total                               7.4          0.4          9.5          12.8         30.2
Total IDA                              (7.4)       (0.4)         (7.2)                    (15.0)
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding
Note: Figures in parenthesis represents amounts financed by the IDA credit. NBF= Non IDA Financed but includes IFAD and other donors.
a. International Shopping (IS) will be for field equipment, laboratory equipment & vehicles.
National Shopping will be for small procurement packages such as office equipment and vehicles.
b. Some of the civil works contracts are likely to be for less than US$100,000 each, which would be procured as Minor Works.
c. Co-financed by IDA(USS 1.4 million), IFAD (USSI.0 million), the Sheep Development Project (US$0.5 million) and Other Donors (US$1.0 million)
d. Co-financed by IDA(US$0.4 million), IFAD (US$1.3 million), Sheep Development Project (US$0.5 million) and Other Donors (USS0.1 million)
e. Represents salaries of non-governmental local staff contracted as per Bank guidelines (para 4.25), would be co-financed by IDA (US$0.4 million)
IFAD (US$0.5 million), the Sheep Development Project (US$0.6 million), Other Donors (US$0.4 million), Beneficiaries (US$0.3 million)
and the Government (US$0.6 million).
f. Operating expenses include operations and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, rent, office consumables, expenses for field visits etc.
Thes items would be procured following public procurement practices. Items would be co-financed by IDA (US$2.3 million), IFAD (US$1.0 million),
the Sheep Development Project (US$0.1 million), other Donors (US$0.4 million), Beneficiaries (US$0.9 million) and the Government (US$1.4 million).



Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Table 4.3  Procurement Information'
ProcurementofWorks                          Intemational       National            Intemational         MinorWorks          OtherMmethods
Competitive        Competitive         Shopping
Bidding            Bidding                    (IS)                (MW)
(ICB)              (NCB)                                                        __ _._>z
1. Procurement method thresholds           >US$200,000         <US$200,000                              <US$100,000                           _
2. Prior Review                             All                All                                      First Three.                          _
Procurement of Goods                       ICB              NCB                       IS                  NS               Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds           >US$200,000                                >US$50,000 but    <US$50,000        Local Commercial practices for        i<c
<US$200,000                         FDF subloans.
2. Prior Review                             All                                       First two           First twoM
Procurement of Consultant Services          Quality Based   Quality and Cost  Fixed    Least Cost         Sole        Individual
Selection       Based Selection    Budget                 Source _
1. Procurement method thresholds                            >US$50,000          -      >US$25,000    US$59,0002    <US$25,000
<US$50,000    _
2. Prior Review                                              All                -      All             All            All TORs
3. Ex-post Review                                                                                                     All
1. PIU to recruit qualified procurement staff with prior experience m World Bank procurement procedures. PIU will have primary responsibility for overseeing implementation
of procurement procedures.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  3. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
To Be Scheduled.                                                                       ready by negotiations? Yes in part (mainly for ICB contracts).
.~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ .R  .. .w    -  :
1. Estimated date of Project Launch    2. Estimated date of General          3. Indicate if contracts are   4. Domestic         5. Domestic Preference for
Workshop:                              Procurement Notice publication: Prior   subject to mandatory SPN in  Preference for      Consultant Services:
to negotiations (February 1998).      Development Business:          Goods/Works:
August 1998                                                            No3                            Yes
6. Retroactive fmancing:   No                                                         i7. Advanced Procurement:  No
8. Procurement Monitoring System: PMU to report procurement actions in quarterly progress reports.
*~~~~~j*~~~~~~*4~~~~~~ P ~~~~~u ~~~~~$~~~                ........       .    .....
1. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:                       Division:         Ext.
Naushad Khan                                                                               ECSRE                32699
2. Explain briefly the Expected role of the Field Office m Procurement:
XSubject to the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
2 Represents estimated aggegate amount of Single Source Contracts (5).
It is planned to publish SPNs for ICB contracts in the Development Business, although this is not mandatory.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                        42
C.    DISBURSEMENTS
4.31   The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be disbursed over a five year
period, expected to start about July 1, 1998. The IDA Credit's estimated disbursement schedule and the
average disbursement profile for similar projects, are presented in Annex C , Table 3 and 4.
4.32   Funds would be disbursed through two Special Accounts, one for IDA funds and the other for
IFAD funds, which would be opened in a bank acceptable to IDA and IFAD respectively. The depository
bank holding the special accounts would satisfy the following criteria: (i) execute both foreign exchange
and local currency transactions; (ii) open letters of credit; (iii) handle a large number of transactions
promptly; (iv) issue prompt and detailed monthly bank account statements; and (v) have the
recommendation of the MOFE and the National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) to perform as a
depository bank.
4.33   To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the government would establish in a
commercial bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. The IDA would, upon request, make an Autlhorized Allocation of US$1 million. Initially, the
allocation would be limited to US$500,000 until disbursements had reached SDR 5 million at which time
the full Authorized Allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs
earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by necessary documentation, including the
Special Account bank statement and a reconciliation of the bank statement. The SA would be audited
annlually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The authorized amount for the IFAD Special
Account would be US$500,000.
4.34   Disbursements would be fully documented except that Statements of Expenses (SOEs) would be
used for: (i) contracts for civil works and goods valued at less than US$200,000; (ii) contracts for
consultant firms valued at less than US$50,000; (iii) contracts with individual consultants valued at less
than US$25,000; (iv) operating costs; and (v) individual training activities up to US$5,000 and less. The
documentation for justification of withdrawals made under SOEs will be retained by PIU, will be reviewed
by IDA/IFAD supervision missions, and will be audited annualily by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA/IFAD.
4.35   Disbursements would be made by IDA against the cost of the following components: Land and
Agrarian Reform (Farm Restructuring Support); Seed Development; Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine;
Agricultural Market Information; and Project Implementation Unit, rmaking a total of US$14.98 million
including operational costs, at US$2.0 million (Annex B, Table 2).
4.36   IFAD would finance the project's RADS component (US$7.9 million), besides the use of its
already approved loan for a similar component (livestock advisory services) under the Sheep Development
Project (US$1.8 million). IFAD's contribution would finance: civil works (rehabilitation of buildings);
goods (laboratory equipment, field equipment, vehicles, office equipment), government's equity
contribution to KAFC, technical assistance (consultant services) for pilot activities in micro-credit, and
operating costs. Percentages of IFAD disbursement for all categories of costs would be the same as for IDA
except that IFAD will fund 100 percent of the government's contribution to KAFC's equity.  Bilateral
donors would finance about US$2.2 million and beneficiaries, about US$1.2 million.
4.37   Disbursements under the IDA credit would be fully disbursed within about five years and would
cover approximately 49.7 percent of the project costs as follows:



CHAPTER 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                          43
* 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 90 percent of the local expenditures against the cost of
civil works mainly for rehabilitation of buildings, laboratories, storages, and quarantine and
seed certification facilities;
* 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and
80 percent of local expenditures for the other items procured locally, for goods including
vehicles and office equipment; laboratory equipment; and field equipment;
* 100 percent of the cost of consulting services;
* 100 percent of the cost of training; and
* Expenditures for operating costs (including office supplies; utilities; salaries, and vehicle and
equipment maintenance). IDA credit would finance about 60 percent of the total incremental
operating costs, at about US$2.4 million, with annual rate of disbursement declining from 100
percent until June 30, 1999; 85 percent until June 30, 2000; 65 percent until June 30, 2001; 45
percent until June 30, 2002; and 20 percent thereafter.
D.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
4.38   The PIU will receive technical assistance under the project to hire a financial specialist and an
accountant (national consultants) and necessary support staff with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.2). The financial specialist and the accountant would be responsible for introducing and
implementing a financial management system including accounting, audit, and reporting to ensure that
accurate and timely information with respect to project resources and expenditures becomes regularly
available. The financial management arrangements would include: accounting based on chart of accounts
to classify expenditures and sources of funds by project components/activities, following appropriate
accounting standards and reporting formats; recording of monitorable physical and other indicators for
comparison of related costs; procurement contract management; and internal controls.
4.39   The MAWR has gained experience in establishing a financial management system under the on-
going IDA-assisted Sheep Development Project, which is now operational. As a condition of negotiations,
the government revisited SDP's financial management system and submittedfor IDA staff review, a draft
manual on Financial Management and Accounting for the proposed project. During negotiations, the
govemment agreed to revise this Manual to simplify accounting processes and address issues such as the
definition of staff responsibilities and documentation flow; the scope of financial statements and financial
management reports; treatment of currencies used; and treatment of interest income on bank accounts. The
Government confirmed that the revision of the Manual will be completed by about May 31, 1998. At
negotiations, the government agreed to maintain for the project, a financial management system including
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of the project, and consistent with
International Accounting Standards.
4.40   Annual accounts for the project, including SOEs and Special Account (SA) for each fiscal year,
would be audited in accordance with International Standards oni Auditing by an independent auditor,
acceptable to IDA, who will be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of IDA Credit. Implementing
agencies under contract with PIU would provide annual financial statements for the component under their
management, which would also be included in such audit.



CHAPTER 4: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION                                                         44
4.41   The auditor would be appointed by the PIU and the implementing agencies close to the beginning
of the fiscal year, so that the auditor may commence review sufficiently early in the financial year to
complete the audit on a timely basis. Termns of Reference for the auditor would follow Bank Group
guidelines on Financial Reporting and Auditing. Generally, the auditor will be appointed for an indefinite
term of office, subject to annual confirmation by the PIU. The audit cost will be financed by the project.
E.    SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
4.42   The PIU would have the responsibility for monitoring and concurrent evaluation of project
activities, in consultation with IDA/IFAD. The main indicators are shown in Annex A. These indicators
were agreed with the Government during negotiations, with the understanding that more detailed indicators
would be established by the PIU on the basis of annual work plans for individual components. The
indicators for the PYI will be established prior to the project launch workshop, by about May 31, 1998.
IDA would generally carry out two supervision missions a year, following a start-up mission and workshop
in June 1998. Time inputs and specialist needs have been defined in Annex C, Table 5. The project's mid-
term review whiclh would be carried out by the Government, IDA and IFAD by about December 2000, on
terms of reference acceptable to IDA/IFAD, will assess the progress achieved in carrying out of the project
during the period preceding, and set out measures to ensure efficient carrying out of the project during the
period following the review. This was agreed to at negotiations.
F.    COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROJECTS
4.43   Project activities would be coordinated with those of the on-going Rural Finance Project (RFP)
and, the proposed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) whichi is being processed for IDA assistance,
concurrently with ASSP. RADCs would provide assistance to farms in the preparation of business plans
and credit applications to KAFC and other financial institutionis. Where noni-restructured farms seek
credit on the conditioni that they would restructure their operation, RCLAR/CLARs would provide them
with necessary technical assistance. RADCs will assist farmers benefiting from the irrigation project in
forminig water users' associations.



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.     BENEFITS
5.1    Consistency witlh Country Assistance Strategy.  The project objectives and activities are
consistent with the priorities for agricultural growth as outlined in the May 1998 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and with the recommendations of the Bank Group's Agriculture Sector Review. The
CAS focuses on eliminating remaining policy and regulatory impediments to growth through
consolidation of structural reforms and poverty alleviation through the provision of public goods in
agriculture to increase productivity and incomes of the rural poor. Accordingly, the project sets out to
establish services that private farmers would demand for developing commercially viable and
environmentally sustainable production systems, in a competitive market environment. This will be
done through a judicious combination of public, private and voluntary sector initiatives. The project's
emphasis is on the creation of an enabling environment for private and voluntary actions, rather than on
the direct provision of services by the public sector. The project would help generate location-specific,
environmentally friendly, approaches to agricultural development based on farmer involvement.
5.2    Benefits. Quantifying incremental benefits from a single or a range of the proposed project
activities which are largely of an institutional development nature is complex both on theoretical and
practical considerations, more so because numerous non-service factors would influence decision-
making at the farm level. The Bank Group's experience with several land reform and extension projects
has demonstrated that the outcome of the services provided depends on how effectively the basic
requirements are met: that is on: (a) whether relevant technology is made available for targeted farming
systems; and (b) how efficiently farm inputs and credits are supplied. On this basis, potential benefits of
the proposed project are expected to be derived mainly from the combined impact of the following three
projects that would be assisted by the Bank Group and other donors, the implementation of which would
broadly coincide.
*  Proposed Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) would provide support for farm
restructuring; advisory services backed by field trials and demonstrations in conjunction with
adaptive research; and micro-credit targeted at the poor; seed industry development; crop
protection and plant quarantine; and market information;
*  The on-going Rural Finance Project would provide private farms financial means (credit) to
adopt improved technologies and purchase necessary inputs supplemented by ASSP to serve
clients not covered by this project; and
*  The proposed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, due to commence in June 1998, would arrest
the deterioration of irrigation systems, and maintain water availability for more productive
cropping systems.
5.3    Specifically, the benefits from ASSP components would be as follows:
(a)   The support for Land and Agrarian Reform  would help ensure a more equitable
distribution of land and property shares; accelerate the pace of farm restructuring; and
expand private (as against collective) management of farms which has generally proven to
be more productive in Kyrgyz Republic, as elsewhere in the former Soviet Union. Implicit
in land reform and farm restructuring is greater freedom for new entrepreneurs to make



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                            46
economically efficient choices in an increasingly competitive markets thereby bringing
about substantial financial and economic benefits.
(b)  The Rural Advisory and Development Services component would provide technology
and business advice to farms to improve productivity and long-term sustainability of their
farming systems.
(c)   The Seed Industry Development component would improve availability of clean, quality
seed which is one prerequisite for raising crop yields (e.g. 0.5 tons for grains). The
restoration of the variety development capacity would bring in additional long term benefits.
Existing varieties are old, limited in number, and not always adapted to specific conditions of
different agro-ecological zones. The introduction of regulatory services will lead to improved
seed quality and varietal purity. Furthermore, due to technological improvements, the
production cost of seeds would decrease, and average seeding rates would decrease by about
20 percent, with better seed quality.
(d)  The Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine component would establish sound
legislative bases and effective organizations and procedures for Plant Protection and Plant
Quarantine services, and assist in controlling plant pests and diseases, improve farm
productivity, and reduce risks to human health and environment.
(e)   The Agricultural Market Information System would improve access of farmers to
changing markets; better signal opportunities for commercially profitable agriculture;
improve producer incentives and bargaining position; and stimulate competition among
traders thereby potentially increasing farm gate prices; helping producers to diversify
production; and exploit competitive advantages.
B.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.4    Crop Models. Prior to reform, agriculture used to be collectively managed with average arable
land units of 3-4000 ha and several thousands of people living on them. These enterprises are now
breaking down into smaller farms, transformed into other types of organizations mostly managed by
individual or groups of farm families. In order to assess the project's potential impact at the farm level,
crop models have been prepared with reference to two main types of farms targeted by the project:
individual farms and peasant farms (or associations) based on a 1994-96 survey of 24 farms which was
updated in 1997. The survey was carried out by EU TACIS, in two major representative regions of Chui
and Osh. These models broadly represent the national average performance of farms to compare crop
performances "without project" and "with project". The "without project" crop yields are based on
1994-1996 national averages (updated in 1997) which had declined relative to the averages for 1989-91,
in the wake of the transition to market economy, and farmers' lack of access to credit and inputs (Annex
D, Tables I and 2). The "with project" situation, on the other hand, combines the effect of improved
technologies including the use of quality seeds, fertilizers, and improved irrigation. It also makes an
assumption that the three projects (ASSP, Rural Finance and Irrigation Rehabilitationi) would together
contribute to increasing yield levels, at least up to the averages of 1989-1991 (Table 5.1).



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                            47
Table 5.1: Summary of Yields and Gross Margins of Major Crops
With Existing and Improved Technology
Crop                          Yield Increase (tons/ha)                        Gross Margin (Som / ha)
Existing        Improved             % of increase    Existing       Improved       % of
Technology (*)  Technology (**)                      Technology      Technology    increase
Wheat               1.9               2.7                42%             1,552           2,422         56%
Barley              1.5               2.2                47%             1,143           1,808         58%
Maize               3.8               6.3                66%             2,750           4,210         53%
Sugar-beet         12.4              16.5                33%             3,791           5,845         54%
Lucerne             6.0               9.0                50%             2,090           3,100         48%
Cotton              2.2               2.6                20%             3,673           4,896         33%
(*) 1994-1996 national average. (**) 1989 - 1991 national average.
5.5     Farm  Models. The following illustrative farm models (financial) derived from a rapid survey
undertaken in two oblasts for the purpose of this project, indicate the potential impact on individual
farms and peasant farms (or associations).
Table 5.2: Farm Models - Area, Returns and Credit
Farm model 1          Farm model 2      Farm model 3      Farm model  Average
Farm Size: 10 ha      Farm Size: 47 ha   Farm Size 6 ha        4
Farm Size 20
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha
Individual Farm in    Peasant Farm in  Individual Farm   Peasant
Kara-Balta           Kara-Balta        in Osh            Farm in Osh
No of HHs                 1                     5                 1                5
No of people              6                     30                6                30
Cropping Pattern (ha)     Wheat: 4              Wheat: 20         Wheat: 2         Wheat: 8
Barley: 2            Barley: 16        Cotton: 2         Cotton: 6
Maize: I             Maize: 2          Maize: I          Maize: 4
Sugarbeet: I         Sugarbeet: 3      Lucerne: I        Lucerne: 2
Lucerne: 2           Lucerne: 6
| Total: 10            Total: 47         Total: 6         Total: 20
Net income Som per HH:
w/oproject                17,215                13,868            14,091           11,409         14,146
with project            27,559                22,505            20,745            16,947        21,939
incremental             10,344                8,637             6,655             5,538         7,793
% increase              57%                   62%               47%              49%            55%
Net income Som per ha:
w/o project             1,721                 1,475             2,348            2,282          1.956
with project            2,756                 2,394             3,458            3,389          2,999
incremental             1,034                  919              1,109             1,108         1,043
% increase              60%                   62%               47%              49%            53%
Working Capital (Credit
requirements) in Som:
Per HHI                   5,422                 5,025             7,058            4,680          5,546
Perha                      542                   535              1,176            1,170           856
(1) Assuming half of the private households in individual units, half in peasant farms.
5.6     Households adopting improved technologies and seeds promoted by the project and having
access to appropriate credit and water supply could increase their gross margins by an average of 55



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                            48
percent to about Som 22,000 (US$1,250) and net income by an average of Som 3,000 (US$180) or 63
percent to about Som 8,879 (US$508). The average incremenital income per ha would be about Som
1,043 (or about US$60). This shows that under proper conditions, agriculture in Kyrgyz Republic would
be profitable. The implementation of these improved techniques would require incremental working
capital averaging about Som 5,550 (US$317) per HH and Som 856 (US$49) per hectare. While a
substantial part of the working capital requirement may have to be financed by households from own
savings and credit provided by input dealers and marketing agents, IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project
and the IFAD-assisted small farmer credit window (FDF) will indeed have a critical role in terms of
delivering credit to farms working with RADCs. Proposed technologies would mainly consist of more
efficient use of inputs, including improved seeds, fertilizers, and mechanization. These activities would
require some additional family labor but given the prevailing unemployment and underemployment in
the rural sector, labor availability is not foreseen to be a constraint. The FRR and ERR would be as
follows:
Table 5.3 Household Models
Rate of Return    Model I         Model 2        Model 3         Model 4        Average
FRR            25%             21%             14%            10%             17%
ERR            23%             15%            24%             14%             23%
5.7    Potential for Yield Increases. The scientific community in Kyrgyz Republic and outside believe
that in an environment of optimal availability of farm inputs and access to markets, the potential yields
of crops included in the farm models could be higher than those assumed for purposes of financial and
economic analysis, as follows: Wheat: 3.3 tons/ha; Barley: 2.7 tons/ha; Maize: 10 tons/ha; sugarbeet: 30
tons/ha; lucerne: 12 tons/ha and cotton: 3.5 tons/ha. With these yields, the financial and economic rates
of returns would be significantly higher (>40 percent).
5.8    Potential Changes in Cropping Patterns. Farm models presented above assume a cropping
pattern comprising of predominantly low value crops. There will be mostly one crop per year though
some farmers might take vegetables as a second crop on a small area. However, the share of the second
crop in the total cropping pattern is expected to be very small. Taking a conservative approach to
financial and economic analysis, the farm models, therefore, assume neither any increase in the cropping
intensity nor any fallow lands.  Potentially, however, in response to higher prices and improved
marketing, the cropping pattern may undergo structural changes relative to the base case. Such changes
would inevitably lead to increases in household/per ha incomes, and in the financial and economic
returns to the project. To illustrate the impact of a potential change in the cropping pattern on the
project's economic performance, a sensitivity analysis was undertaken assuming that the proportion of
relatively high value crops such as maize, sugarbeet and cotton could go up by about 20 percent at the
expense of wheat and barley. The ERR in this environment, assuming other variables remain constant,
could be as high as high as 33 percent relative to 21 percent under the base case (para. 5.12).
5.9    Super Elite and Elite Seed Farms.  Government project finance to NPOZ/Djal farm for
production of super-elite and elite seed in cereals (wheat and maize) and FPRI forage farms (Alfalfa and
Sainfoin) will be based on detailed techno-economic feasibility studies (paras. 3.16 and 3.18).
Preliminary analysis of the these investments indicate financial rates of return ranging between 24



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                  49
percent and 36 percent with economic rates of return ranging between 22 percent and 32 percent. At an
interest rate of about 12 percent (in real terms on project finance expressed in US$), the maturity period
will be about seven years for machinery and equipment finance, and two-three years for working capital
finance.
5.10   Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  A cost/benefit analysis has been undertaken by using
economic values, and aggregating farm models and project costs at the national level. Economic prices
have been calculated for major tradable products using prices and price projections available in
November 1997 issue of the Bank's Business Quarterly (Annex D, Table 9). A conversion factor of 1
has been used for project costs as no distortions appear to affect the prices of items procured under the
project.
5.11   Economic values are higher by 18 percent to about 50 percent compared with the financial
prices. When introduced in crop budgets, the economic prices show positive results indicating that major
crops supported by the project are economically justified. While aggregating costs and benefits at project
level, two critical assumptions have been used:
Attribution of Benefits Among Projects. In order to avoid double-counting of the benefits due to
ASSP and the two other projects (Rural Finance and Irrigation Rehabilitation), approximately 40 percent of
the previously mentioned benefits are attributed to the proposed project (ASSP); 40 percent to the Rural
Finance Project; and 20 percent to the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, based on a broad empirical
assessment of the contributions expected to be made by various inputs to total productivity improvement on
participating farms. The irrigation project will be contributing about 10 percent increase in yields (accounting
for about 20 percent of the incremental benefit) as a result of improved water supply. The rest of the
incremental benefit is estimated to result equally from the improved incentive framework and services
provided by ASSP and increased credit facilities to farmers provided by the Rural Finance Project.
0      Teclnology Adoption Rate. It is estimated that there will be approximately 143,000 private
farmers when farm restructuring is completed. A recent survey to assess the impact of the experience of
TACIS households (ABC and ATAS) shows that "farmer coverage" rates are between 47 percent and 70
percent. This means that about 67,200 households could be served by the project. Among these, only a
proportion would adopt recommended technologies and/or improved seeds released by the project. The
adoption rate has been estimated at 50 percent so that the number of participating small-holders
(households) would be about 33,600 or about 24 percent of the total: about 8 percent at the end of year 2
(I 1,200 farmers); 16 percent at the end of year 3(16 percent); and 24 percent at the end of year 4 (33,600).
5.12   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The ERR for the project as a whole is estimated at 20
percent, corresponding to a Net Present Value of US$9.93 million(with a 12 percent discount rate),
which is satisfactory given that the project's main emphasis is on the provision of services to farmers,
including as many as 50 percent small holders. A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken using the
following approaches: (i) farmer coverage rate of advisory services, and adoption rates for proposed
technologies could be lower; (ii) farm benefits from project activities could be lower; and (iii) the cost of
project activities could be higher than expected. The results are as follows:



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                50
Table 5.4: Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity Factor         Base Assumption      Switching Value     Switching Value in %
compared with base
assumption
Participating Rate (Coverage rate  24%          17%                 -28%%
x adoption rate)
Farm Benefits attributed to the    US$ 187 per household   US$ 131 per household  - 27%%
project                   I_                   I
Total Economic Project Costs  US$ 26.3 million  US$ 37.3 million    + 42%
Table 5.5 Sensitivity Analysis: Changes in Project Cost and Benefits (Economic)
Benefits/Costs               ERR                  Cost+ 10%                Cost+20%
Base Assumption               20%                      18%                     15%
Benefits-10%                 17%                     16%                      13%
Benefits -20%                14%                     12%                      10%
C.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.13   Sustainability. The project design has benefited from the experience with the on-going donor-
assisted pilot projects in rural advisory services and market information, and a comprehensive evaluation
of activities currently under way in the spheres of land reform; breeder, super elite and elite seed
production; crop protection and plant quarantine. The analysis shows that the sustainability of the
project-assisted activities and institutions could be substantially enhanced if their reliance on government
funding could be progressively reduced, and private sector participation significantly increased.
Accordingly, in the sphere of land and agrarian reform, no new organizations or bodies will be created:
the strategy would be to strengthen the ability of existing government institutions and farmer groups to
carry out grassroots level activities more efficiently.
5.14   The rural advisory and development services (RADS) component would use a participatory
approach ensuring that farmers gradually become responsible for managing and financing the services
they need.  To facilitate this process, RADCs would function under autonomous, decentralized,
management structures with participation of local farmers. The long-term sustainability of the advisory
services would depend upon RADCs ensuring high professional standards, and assisting farmers to
access credit from formal and informal sources. The sustainability of the seed component will be assured
by involving critical stakeholders in both public and private sectors in the initial development of the
sector with emphasis on progressively increasing the role of the private sector in seed breeding and
primary seed multiplication leaving commercial seed production increasingly to the private sector.
Under a similar approach, crop protection and plant quarantine activities would be sustainable by RADC
training farmers and traders in safe handling and utilization of pesticides.



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITSAND RISKS                                                                     51
5.15   Cost Recovery.  Durinig the five-year project implemip enitation period, the finanicinig of the
incremenital operating expenses of the project would be progressively borne by the govermenit and/or
the project beneficiaries. At full development (PY6), anilual incremental operating costs would reach
about US$1.53 millioni, of whiich 70 percent would be finaniced by the Governmeit (US$1.08 million)
and the remaininig by beneficiaries. Table 5.6 below compares the cost per beneficiary with the expected
anlilual incremenital increases at farm level as a result of the project intervelitiolns.
5.16   Cost Recovery Mechanisnms: These would vary by type of activity:
*  In the case of land and agrarian reforn componenit, the cost recovery would come mainly
from fees thiat would be charged by the govermenlt on future land titling and registration
activities whicil would be facilitated by the project.  Additionally, the impact on the
(lovernment budget of this componenit would progressively reduce as farner groups are
trained to carry out on their own, farm restructuring activities precedent to issue of land
certificates.
*  As for the rural advisory and development services (RADS), it is envisaged that beneficiaries
will begin to pay for the services provided by the RADCs, even if in small amounts, right
from  the start, mainly for concrete products such as the preparation of business plans,
preparation of credit
applications, advisory visits    Table 5.6: Incremental Income and Advisory Service
to farms, soil analysis and           Costs per Average Household (HH): 7 Ha
fertilizer  recommendatiolis.                                          Som      inUS$
During the project period,   Annual total IncoTe per average [IH (7 ha) using  21.939   1253
RADCs  are  expected  to   new technology (with proaject)
collect from  the beneficiary   Annual incremental income per average 1-11{ wvith  7.793  445
houselholds, a total amount   project
of   about   US$700,000,   Annual operating cost of proposed advisory   370       22
equivalent to about 5 percent   services per average HH adopting new
of the total project cost. The   technology
Annual nct income per ha (with project)  2.999    171
rest of the operational cost   Annual incremental income per ha (witlh project)  1(043  60
will  be  financed  by  the   Annual operating cost of proposed advisory  55    3.14
project.   In  year 5, the   servicesperha
benleficiaries'   contribution   Annual farming cost per ha with improved
would  amount  to  about  technology for an average HH                 5,554     316
US$108,000 or 25 percent of the total salaries paid to RADS staff, and 15 percent of the total
operational cost of the RADS estimated at about US$750,000 equivalent.
*   In Year 6, the number of households expected to hiave beneficial contact with RADS is
estimated at about 33,600 (235,000 ha). The cost per average beneficiary houselhold (7 ha)
works out to about US$22 or US$3.14 per ha, whicih would be about 0.7 per cent of the
average househiold's incremenital income of US$445, and less thani I percent of per ha
farminig cost withi new techinology, at US$3 16. Dependilng upOIn the size of the farm, the cost
of RADS would range between US$8 for a small farm  of say 2.5 ha to about US$150 for a
farn with 50 ha, generally withiin the repaying ability of the beneficiary farms. In practice,
hiowever, it may be difficult for RADS to levy differential fees, especially for services like
training. Mechaniisms must, therefore, be developed to effect cost recovery with reference to
specific products such as the preparation of business plans and credit applications and the
size of farms served. It is expected that RADS, by the end of the project year 5, would be



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                52
able to charge fees for all types of services, at least to larger farms, estimated at about 50
percent of the total number of expected beneficiary households (33,600), at rates equal to or
above the average cost. This will enable RADS to at least partially cross-subsidize small
holders, especially those below the poverty line.
*  If on empirical considerations, RADS must reach the poor (small holders) free of charge or
by charging fees at low rates, clearly the government would have to finance part of the
RADS costs. However, to reduce this fiscal burden on the government and to better target
the use of public funds to the poor, apart from piloting beneficiary payments during the
implementation of the project, the RADS would introduce two other sources of financing
small holders: (a) a voucher system (initially funded by an IFAD loan of US$180,000) in
support of targeting the poor (para. 3.1 1), and (b) KAFC contracting RADS advisors (on fee
basis) for supervision of its loans to farmers and farmer groups. Potentially, the RADS
should aim to promote competition in the provision of advisory services to farmers by
paying local level advisors a basic salary, and then allowing them to keep, as an incentive, a
percentage of the fees, in which case, local advisors would compete with each other for
customers (e.g. across rayons/oblasts). The RADS would also explore if it must divest all its
employees providing advisory services, and let them become independent contractors. In
this approach, the resulting competition could help lower the cost of advisory services, so
also the burden on the budget. RADS would then evolve itself into an association of agro-
business centers rather than a monolithic NGO.
*  During the project's mid-term  review, the government and the RADS Foundation in
consultation with IDA, will review the effectiveness of various cost recovery mechanisms
and develop plans for future financing of the RADS. The project's goal is to ensure that
RADS remains a client-oriented, viable, and efficient (competitive) activity, and takes an
aggressive stance on cost recovery, to become a fully self-financinig activity, with
government funding limited only to the cost of RADS reaching the most needy groups and
areas as may be justified by empirical considerations.
*  Seed Component. Cost recovery under the seed component would be based on the sale of
patent rights and payment of royalties for new varieties. Breeding activities should begin to
achieve partial cost recovery after a period of about five years through the release of new
varieties. The seed production farms would recover costs through charging an adequate
margin on the commercialization of Super Elite and Elite Seed, respectively 50 percent and
30 percent of their production costs. Cash flow projections of the NPOZ and FPRI farms
demonstrate their financial sustainability (subject to a systematic effort toward elimination
of prevailing inefficiencies in seed production). Project finance to pilot commerzial seed
farms will be subject to full cost recovery.
*  The seed regulatory services are the responsibility of the State. Annual expenses have been
estimated at US$74,000 for seed certification laboratories, US$115,000 for official variety
testing laboratories and US$23,400 for the Seed Unit. A full cost recovery is envisaged in
operating the seed certification laboratories which would charge the full cost of tests to seed
growers at the current rate of about Som 80 per sample. The variety testing laboratories
would recover initially 50 percent of their operating expenses by charging a realistic
(market-based) fee of US$100 per variety to be tested, but the fee rate could be potentially
increased commensurate with the increases in farm profitability.



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                          53
* The cost of regulatory services for crop protection and plant quarantine will be borne by the
government; however, the stations and laboratories to be developed under the project would
charge fees to gradually recover their operational costs over a period of five years.
*  Agricultural market information  system, at full development, would be partially
commercialized by producing customized reports which would be sold to producers and
traders.
(iii) ][mpact on Government Budget
5.17   During 1997, the total budget allocated to the agricultural sector was about Som 286 million
(about US$16.3 million) including:  Som 60 million for the MAWR and the entities under its
responsibility; Som 38 million for the Agrarian Academy; Som 38 million from oblast budgets to the
local administration; and Som 150 million for agricultural credit. The annual incremental operating costs
of the proposed services at full development (PY6) have been evaluated in constant terms at US$2
million or Som 35 million of which the Government would have to finance about 80 percent, equivalent
to US$1.6 million or Som 28 million (which could be reduced through concerted efforts toward cost
recovery). This amount represents about 7 percent of the total budget support to agricultural sector.
Additionally, during the project period (July 1998-June 2003), the government will bear the incremental
recurrent cost of the services provided, up to a total of about US$2.1 million (Som 37 million), or 22
percent of the total, with the balance funded by the project.
5.18   The government will raise incremental resources for the project mainly by reducing the level of
subsidies provided to the agricultural sector, and by reallocating the savings to the proposed project,
within the threshold set by the recent budget. Under the recently approved IDA-assisted Rural Finance
Project, the Government has agreed to reduce/phase out its budgetary allocations for agricultural credit
according to the following maximum benchmarks and schedule: (i) 1997: Som 150 million; (ii) 1998:
Som 50 million; (iii) 1999: Som 25 million; and (iv) 2000: Nil. These budgetary savings would be made
available for other uses, including the proposed project. In order to assist MAWR and MOFE in
budgeting counterpart funds over the next five years, detailed financial requirements per activity and per
year have been reviewed and agreed with the government.
D.    POVERTY IMPACT
5.19   The project would target private and restructured farm-holdings in which the majority of the rural
poor are founcl. The project would strengthen MAWR's institutional capacity to provide technical, and
through RADS, farm management services to private farms which currently receive hardly any public
support. Women provide most of the farm labor in the country. Their role is likely to increase with the
emergence of the private family farm-holdings which will be based largely on family labor. The project's
farm advisory services would cover women as farmers and create potential for direct additional
employment for them. The project will address poverty by improving household incomes and food security.
E.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.20   The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment and has been given a 'C'
rating. The positive impact would be obtained essentially through activities supporting: (a) land and
agrarian reform which are expected to lead to long-term investments in soil quality; (b) advisory
services, ensuring that farmers make more efficient use of seeds, irrigation, fertilizers and crop
protection chemicals; (c) adaptive research which would focus on improving soil and water management



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                54
practices; and (d) crop protection and plant quarantine services in conjunction with an IPM approach.
Other components, such as seed development, would also have a positive impact directly by reducing
weed infestation and contamination with seed-borne diseases, and indirectly through the introduction of
varieties with higher insect or disease resistance.
5.21   The proposed advisory services including field trials, demonstrationis and related adaptive
research programs are specifically directed towards better management of natural resources. The soil
management and conservation program  would seek to reduce tillage and promote better water
inlfiltration, whiich would limit soil erosion, reduce the need for irrigation, and curtail land preparation
costs. The advisory services for crops whilch in the past tended to receive alarming levels of pesticides
(such as vegetables) will raise awareness among farmers of the factors that influence pest development
and introduce IPM methods for their control. Plant quarantine sub-component would reduce the risk of
introducing new pests in the country and would put in place a system to regulate and control the supply
of pesticides, as well as their distribution, handling and utilization. This would allow to ban particularly
toxic chemicals, to control adulteration of pesticides (which invariably result in higher levels of
application or hazardous self-experimentation of new products), and impose proper labeling. These
activities would complement the work of advisory and adaptive research services and result in safer
handling and lower utilization of crop chemicals.
F.     PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
5.22   The expected benefits can be achieved by participating farms only if the services provided by the
project are combined with appropriate and timely supply of credit to finance additional inputs associated
with the adoption of new technologies. This risk will be mitigated by the proposed IFAD line of credit
for the Farm Development Fund in KAFC for small holder credit in conjunction with the IDA-assisted
Rural Finance Project; the ADB-financed Credit Union Project; and the on-going GTZ-supported line of
credit.
S.23   The availability of budgetary resources to finance part of the incremental operating cost is
another major risk. In order to limit this risk, the levels of these expenses would be kept low and the
mechanism of cost recovery from beneficiaries would be introduced from the project start, though
initially on a modest scale. However, the Government would still have to redirect part of the agriculture
budget currently used for direct transfers to the provision of project-assisted services. During the project
implementation, cost recovery would be carefully monitored as well as the availability of the government
contribution. Any disruption in government financing would be identified early on in order to seek
alternative sources of financing.
5.24   In the sphere of land and agrarian reform, there are four main types of risks: political risks; risks
of failure of complementary reforms; risk of social dislocation; and climatic risks. A substantial
redistribution of land and property faces a political risk as it might undermine the basis of political power
of village and rayon administrations, leading to administrative "hold up" of some aspects of the land
reform. This risk will be addressed by making information on far-m restructuring available directly to
farmers and by supporting land share certification scheme which identifies specific parcels, thus
weakening local administrations' ability to influence land allotments prejudicially. The complementary
reforms, especially in rural finance, are currently under way. The project's focus on improving the
incentive framework for agriculture is expected to reduce the risk of social dislocation. Climatic risks
affecting agricultural performance could potentially preclude farm families from pursuing changes in the
prevailing collective management, and establishing individual farms and farmer associations. The on-
going social expenditure programs are expected to address this risk.



CHAPTER 5: BENEFITSAND RISKS                                                             55
5.25   Continued intervention by Government seeking to retain a direct role in agricultural production
rather than shifting its mission to that of a service provider, remains a risk. This is particularly so in the
case of the seed component, but could also toucih other components. The low implementation capacity
especially related to services which are new for the country, such as advisory services and MIS, could
delay project implementation and realization of benefits. The relatively high content of technical
assistance, (about 15 percent of project cost), aimed at local capacity building is designed to mitigate
these risks.



CHAPTER 6: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    As conditions of negotiations, the Government completed the following actions:
(i)  Issued a formal order to merge livestock advisory services under the Sheep Development
Project (SDP) with ASSP's integrated rural advisory and development services (RADS),
and at negotiations, informed IDA and IFAD that this merger would be carried out
effectively, no later than September 30, 1998 (para. 3.9);
(ii)  Finalized the Letter of Invitation (LOI) to international firms to submit bids for PIU
advisory assignment, including terms of reference of this assignment (para. 4.2);
(iii)  Provided to IDA for review, a position paper on land and agrarian reform, reinforcing
government commitment to implement various activities proposed by the project (para.
4.4);
(iv)  (a) Approved the Charter for the establishment of the Rural Advisory and Development
Services Foundation and registered this Foundation, as a legal entity, with the Ministry of
Justice; (b) issued a framework agreement for the establishment of a small farmer credit
program (Farm Development Fund in KAFC), duly signed by KAFC, UNDP, and the
Government; and (c) confirmed that existing legal and administrative arrangements
permit the establishment of: farmer dominated Steering Committees for RADS, and
farmer groups and associations which would be RADCs' target clientele (para. 4. 10);
(v)  Established criteria for selection of private pilot commercial seed farms, and terms and
conditions of project finance to seed farms (paras. 4.16 and 4.17);
(vi)  Issued a government resolution  (No. 76 dated February 13, 1998) approving the
establishment of an agricultural Market Information System (MIS); established a National
Management Committee (NMC) for MIS; and required agencies involved in the MIS
implementation to sign a cooperation agreement outlining their mutual responsibilities
(para. 4.23);
(vii) Prepared a Procurement Plan for the first year of the project (para. 4.30); and
(viii) Prepared a draft Manual on Financial Management and Accounting for the project, which
will be revised by May 31, 1998, taking into consideration IDA's recommendations (para.
4.39).
6.2    During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) Seed Industry Development:
(i) Government to issue, by December 31, 1998, policy guidelines, satisfactory to IDA, to
implement the compulsory seed certification requirements under the Seed Law (para. 2.20);
(ii) Government to submit, by December 31, 2000, to the Parliament, a draft amendment to the
Seed Law, satisfactory to IDA, which would allow MAWR to offer seed certification on a
voluntary basis (para. 2.20);



CHAPTER 6: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                              57
(iii) Government to submit, by August 31, 1998, to the Parliament a draft law, satisfactory to
IDA, on the protection of plant breeders' rights (para. 2.21);
(iv) Government to ensure that CRI and FPRI submit to IDA, by March 31 of each year (or such
other date agreed with IDA) for its review, their annual seed breeding programs;
immediately thereafter, finalize said programs taking into consideration IDA's comments
thereon; and carry out such programs in accordance with their terms (para. 3.15);
(v) Government to ensure that: seed production enterprises, selected according to criteria
acceptable to IDA, submit to IDA for its review, by September 30 of each year, feasibility
studies with recommendations (including those on cost recovery) for the production of seed
to be financed under the Credit; immediately thereafter, finalize said recommendations
taking into consideration IDA's comments thereon; and carry out such recommendations in
accordance with their terms (paras. 3.18, 4.16 and 4.17);
(vi) Government to establish a National Seed Association (NSA) by December 31, 1998 with a
charter and by-laws acceptable to IDA (para 3.23);
(b) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine:,
(i) Government to: (a) submit to the Parliament, by August 31, 1998, a draft law satisfactory to
IDA on pesticides and pest control in the context of an IPM approach (para. 3.25); (b) issue,
by June 30, 1999, a Manual on Pesticide Management and Application, Crop Protection and
Plant Quarantine, acceptable to IDA (para. 3.26); and (c) ensure that RADCs advise farmers
and farmer groups on pesticide use only when such use is justified under an IPM approach;
submit to IDA, by December 31 of each year, reports on RADCs' compliance with this
obligation; and take into consideration IDA's comments on these reports, including ways to
improve RADCs' compliance with this obligation (para. 3.26);
(ii) Government to submit to IDA, by December 31, 1998, feasibility studies for rehabilitation of
plant quarantine centers in Bishkek and Osh and, immediately thereafter finalize said
feasibility studies taking into consideration IDA's comments thereon (para. 3.28);
(iii) Government to submit to IDA, for its review, by December 31, 1999, a plan for the
consolidation of  the existing rayon-level quarantine laboratories and centers; and,
immediately thereafter, finalize said plan taking into account IDA's comments thereon; and
carry out such plan in accordance with its terms (para. 3.29);
(c) Project Implementation:
(i) Government to maintain the Project Account during the execution of the project; and
deposit, semi-annually, an amount of Som, acceptable to IDA, into such account toward its
budgetary contribution for the project (para. 3.37);
(ii) Government to establish by August 31, 1998 and, thereafter, maintain until the completion
of the project, with composition and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, the Project
Steering Committee (PSC), and assign to it the responsibility to provide oversight and
coordination for project implementation and approve annual work plans and budgets; (para.
4. 1);



CHAPTER 6: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                            58
(iii) Government to carry out the project through MAWR with participation of SALMLR; CRI,
FPRI and selected seed farms; SIPQ and ACSPP; and NMC in respective components (para.
4. 1);
(iv) Government to maintain, throughout the execution of the project, the PIU with sufficient
number of qualified staff, adequate facilities and resources, satisfactory to IDA; exercise its
rights under the PIU Advisory Agreement, in a manner acceptable to IDA, to accomplish the
purposes of the project; and not to abrogate, amend, or waive the PIU Advisory Agreement,
without the concurrence of IDA (para. 4.2);
(v) Government to maintain the National Management Committee (NMC) for MIS until the
completion of the Project, with composition and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para.
4.22);
(vi) Government to establish and maintain policies and procedures for  monitoring and
evaluation of project activities on an on-going basis and in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to IDA; and carry out, by December 2000, a mid-term review of the project on
terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 4.42);
(d) Financial Management.
(i) Government to maintain a financial management system including records and accounts,
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of the project, and
consistent with International Accounting Standards (para. 4.39); and ensue that annual
accounts for the project, including SOEs and Special Account (SA) for each fiscal year, are
audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by an independent auditor,
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.40);
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.3   It was agreed during negotiations that the following will be the conditions of effectiveness of IDA
Credit in addition to those in the general conditions:
(i) Government to open a Project Account in a commercial bank and make an initial deposit of
an amount in Som equivalent of US$25, 000 into such account (para. 3. 37);
(ii) Execution of the PIU Advisory Agreement with the PIU Advisor, satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.2);
(iii) Government to appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para. 4.40); and
(iv) Government to fullfill all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan other
than those related to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
Recommendation
6.4    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and reconmmend that the Executive Directors approve it.



Annex A
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Design Summary
.. . ..*...*..*..*.........*.... .. . ..      ~                                  o V  lftt ~ t * oi.                    ( M.............t~     o
CAS-related goal:
Facilitate agricultural recovery to           Measurable improvement in economic             National statistics on: overall economic      Continued macro-economic stability;
increase the sector's contribution to         growth; agricultural productivity,            growth; agricultural growth; agricultural
overall economic growth; increase rural    profitability and sustainability; increases    GDP per capita; agricultural production           Political support for: processes of land
incomes; and alleviate rural poverty.         in rural incomes; reduction in poverty        and productivity  (annual); agricultural        reform; farm restructuring; farmer access
and related social expenditures.              incomes, by farm size and per capita;          to support services; phasing out of
rural population in poverty and absolute      remaining government interventions and
poverty; and trends in social                  promoting competitive marketing.
expenditures.
Consolidate structural reforms; and                                                          Farm Management Surveys covering a
sample of crops and non-crop activities,
farms and enterprises;
Strengthen institutional capacity.                                                           Rural household income and expenditure
surveys;
Bank Group and other donors' economic
reports and sector studies.
Improve incentive framework for and           Physical outcomes in terms of land and         Concurrent monitoring of key activities       Macro-economic conditions sufficient to
productivity, profitability and               property shares distributed; number of         including PIU progress reports;                stimulate increased agricultural
sustainability of Kyrgyz agriculture. This  farms restructured and new farms                                                               production.
will be done by means of assisting the        created; farm management changes in            IDA/IFAD supervision reports;
government in:                                terms greater use of private (as against
collective) management structures;            IDA/IFAD mid-term review;
The project's M and E system would provide location and institution-specific baseline and targeted values for each activity including the land and agrariani reform program; the seed industry development; and advisory, crop
protection and market infonmation services. The physical outcomes of the indicators, as relevant, will be defined on the basis of the annual work program for the project implementation as approved by the Project Steering
Committee. The first year's expected physical outcomes will be defined at the commencement of the project, i.e, by May 31, 1998.
cyi
tD



RADC surveys of farm and crop budgets;
(a) implementing land and agrarian       Improvements in farm productivity,
reforms;                                 profitability, (viability), and sustainability
of private farming;
(b) providing emerging private farms     Improvements in farmers' access to       Prepare Implementation Completion
with advisory and development services   inputs including credit, quality seeds,  Report (ICR) jointly with IDA/IFAD.
and training (in conjunction with farm   advisory and adaptive research services;
trials, farm demonstrations and adaptive    crop protection; and market information.
research);
(c) developing seed industry;
(d) establishing legal bases, organizations
and procedures for plant protection and
quarantine services;
(e) establishing agricultural market
information system; and
(f) capacity building in MAWR.
(i) Complete implementation of           (i) Amount (ha) of farm and range land    Existing baseline data on land and non-  Four main types of risks:
government program in distribution of    distributed;                             land assets and farm restructuring        (i) political risk; (ii) r isk of failure of
land and non-land assets;                                                         managed by RCLAR, CLARs and               complementary reforms; (iii) risk of
(ii) Number of permanent land shares and   SALMLR, supplemented by farm survey   social dislocation; and (iv) climatic r isks.
(ii) Establish policies and procedures for   certificates distributed and registered;  data available in MAWR Economics     Project design focuses on minimiziig
land auctions;                                                                    Directorate;                              adverse impact of these risks as follows:
(iii) Capacity building in government   (iii) Number of former state and          Concurrent monitoring of land reform     -- Political r isk addressed by making
agencies (RCLAR, CLARs and               collective farms with land and non-land  program by RCLAR, CLARs and               information on farm r estructuring
SALMLR) and farming communities to    property shares distributed;                SALMLR to systematize available          available directly to farmers; and
support agriculture enterprise                                                    baseline data and collect new data;       supporting land share certification
restructuring; and                      (iv) Number and type of farm units                                                  scheme which identifies specific parcels,
created in each rayon and oblast;        Field surveys to assess range and quality   thus weakening local administrations'
0



Narrat-ive.St eS lary         -           . : .................  . Key Perforinace Inidicators  Monitoring..  ' p              :..M9nitorin gid Sp t 
.:'.'~~~.'  -.: .   - ,,',-' ".......:''..     .    . ::                                       ':         :    .  '.: ..........     .'   '''-'  :''''   :'........... :'
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ( e a n s  f  V e ific d~ ii . & I. .:   ( M a n s  f se ific ti o n
of services provided by CLARs and            ability to influenice land allotments
(iv) Establishmilenit of a legal framilewor-k                                            SALMLR:                                      prejudicially:
for land market development.
(v) Number of goverinimlenit land auctionis                                              -- Complementary reforms under way
comnpleted (aniual data) with total land    Narrative repor-ts on progress and           through IDA-assisted Rural Finance
(ha) involved; ranige of lease tenures; and   problems in agrarian reform by regions     Project assisted by IDA and other donors;
no. of farmers leasing lands;               and for the country as a whole.               ADB project in Credit Unions and
bilateral donors' credit programs;
PIU to provide quarterly/semi-annual
progress reports;
(vi) Gross margins on crops by farm type                                                 -- Results of farm reorganization which
and farm size tbr represenitative rayoois   IDA supervisionis;                           have occurred to date have not tended to
and oblasts:                                                                              exacerbate social dislocation and poverty.
A mid-term review to assess progress in    The project objective of improving
(vii) Number of machinlery service          component implementation and its             incentive framework for agriculture
providers established at rayon and oblast   impact; and introduce mid-term                directly addresses this risk:
level:                                      cor r ections.
(viii) Number of agricultural enterprises
seeking and receiving production and
investment credit;
-- Climatic risks in agriculture could
(ix) Number of transactions in private                                                    potentially preclude changes in farm
(distributed) lands: leases, subleases, and                                               management. This risk addressed by
mortgages; and total land area (ha.)                                                      improving agricultural productivity and
involved (more indicators to be added);                                                   incomes supplemented by on-going social
and                                                                                       expenditure programs.
(x) Number of transactions in non-land
properties: sales/purchases; leases and
sub-leases and mortgages.
Compon.nt 2;Rural .Advisory OW        :             ::: .... .....
,JMotent Servce (Th  c po,,nen t,,, .:. .:.-'
,wi, be  ,Ofif    d , y , ..,, ,             . :.. .f. i.fto  ::..: .
Assist newly created farms through the      Key performance indicators would relate                                                   Two main types of risks: (i) RADCs'
processes of land reform to establish       to:                                                                                       sustainability; (ii) government
profitable farming and increase rural                                                                                                 commitment to economic reform:
incomes. Toward this objective.                                                              .__ __



(Means of ~~~~~~    . ...... *..  .. (e.s f..r.i.ton
Nui~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ... .                                     iary Key Per                            c       e       I  hidXcali:   V i'  ur    io
(i) Establish Rural Advisory and            (i) Adoption Rate and Participationi:        (i) Conculr-elnt monitorilng of physical     (i) Sustainability: For long-term
Development Centers (RADCs) at oblast    Number of villages and houselholds              progr-ess and qualitative assessment         sustainability of a farmer-driven advisory
and rayoni levels;                          directly receivinig project advice;          throughi RADS progress reports, and          service: (a) RADCs must assure high
adoption rate of each techinique; number     PIU/IDA/IFAD supervision reports;            professional standards; and (b) RADCs
of groups formed and supported by the                                                     must remain fully oriented to provide
project: numilber of farm trials and        (ii) PIU to conduct annual impact             advice that is impartial and free from
demonstiations completed; and number of  evaluation of those actually participated        political biases; encourage farmers to
farmers visitinig demonistiationl plots and    in farmer associations; which services     provide contributions to the cost of
trials: number of farmers/groups assisted   under the component would be actually         advisory services, and ensure
with business plans: number- of adaptive    beneficial to farmers; and to what extent    participatory character of the service
rescarchi contiacts signed, contracts       did non-participanits benefit indirectly     througlh on-farm trials, demonstrationis,
completed. topics covered. results          (information diffusion effect);               and training; and (c) assist farmers to
disseminated;                                                                             access formal and informal credit;
(ii) Establish a Secretariat in Bishkek to    (ii) Impact at farm level and              (iii) Mid-tern review  of the project by     (ii) Government commitment
provide coordiniationi and rmoniitorin1g for    attractivenless of techniiques: number of  IDA/IFAD backed by a survey of             strengthened throughi: (a) on-goinig
RAI)Cs and to oversee financial             techniiques considered by farmers as         beneficiaries                                privatization of land and non-land assets
management and control:                     worthiwhile; assessment of yields and                                                     and productivity improvements in
incomile increases on sample houselholds    (iv) MAWR (PIU) to prepare                    agriculture; (b) improved farmer access
adopting advice:                             implementation completion report (ICR).   to credit; reducing dependelice of RADCs
on governmient budget; (c) on-goirig
(iii) Access to Credit: Number of                                                         systemic and institutional reforms in
business plans prepared with                                                              MAWR functions and (d) use of a
RADS/UNDP support; and subloans                                                          judicious blend of public, private and
disbursed by KAFC thiouglh Farm                                                           voluntary sector initiatives to imnprove
Developmenit Fund; Progress in                                                           farm productivity:
implementinig pilot activities in miciro-
ftiance in selected areas;
(iii) RADCs to assist and traini farmers    (iv) Cost Recovery. Amount of recovery
in (a) techiology adaptation including      fr-om farmers of RADS runniinig costs and
training in the use of improved             otlher souices of income including media
production practices, in conjunction with   sales, and fees tor preparationi of credit
a program of field trials and field         applications;
demonstrations onl farmers' fields at
farmers' requests; (b) preparation of       (v) Poverty Taigetinig. Classification ot
business plans in support of credit         advisory visits, credit and trainiing
applications; and (c) work on1 farimler     according to poverty status.
group development for obtainiig



N.. ... ....... '.,     . ',                                      t' , ,..    . .M . ..t
improved services and solving common
problems, e.g.. in small-scale machinery
operation and water use:
(iv) Establish a Farm Development Fund
($1.5 million) at KAFC and Carry out
pilot activities in micro-credit ($0.3
million).
* ' *p¢ ~    L S e~ 4 0 e v e1W...               ........-...._..
Establish a viable, self-sustaining, seed
industry with emphasis on private sector
participation by:
(i) Acquisition. development and           (i) Quantity and sources of wheat,         Crop Research Institute (CRI) and Fodder  No significant risks from using new
evaluation of new germplasm and its        barley, maize, alfalfa and sainfoin        and Pasture Research Institute (FPRI)       varieties. However, the project design
submission to official variety testing     germplasm meeting specific breeding        records and PIU progress reports. IDA       would minimize following risks:
system;                                    objectives acquired for testing;           supervision missions.
(ii) Number of selection nurseries                                                     Government continuing its dominant role
established for each crop at agreed                                                    in seed production.
number of sites;
(iii) Number of collection nurseries                                                   (a) Project introduces phased
established;                                                                           privatization of seed breeding and
primary seed multiplication.
(iv) Number of varieties meeting specific                                              (b) Super elite and elite seed farms and
characteristics in multiplication nurseries;                                           pilot commercial seed farms will be
and                                                                                    provided technical assistance to eliminate
current inefficiencies and introduce
(v) Release of superior varieties to                                                   modern technical and management
official variety testing system.                                                       practices in seed production;
(ii) Rehabilitation of cereal and fodder   (i) Area sown to wheat, barley, maize,     NPOZ/Djal farm and Forage Institute         Credit:
seed (Super Elite and Elite) production,   alfalfa and sainfoin for Super Elite and   Seed Farm records. PIU progress reports   The risk of the slow development of
processing, storage and distribution       Elite seed production -- targets by year;    and IDA supervision missions              farmers' access to credit concurrently
facilities;                                and                                                                                    addressed by other development projects
including IDA-assisted Rural Finance
CO~



.                                                                                                                          .9  i tSS   :   - .   : . K r 5: ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . . .   . .
Project, and ADB-assisted Credit Unions
project.
(ii) Quantities for Super Elite and Elite      Farm  record; PIU progress reports and
seed produced and released to registered       IDA supervision mission.
Elite and Commercial seed producers.
(iii) Demonstration of best practice           (i) Three farms to be selected for 1999
commercial seed production on thiee            spring crop season according to criteria
pilot private seed farms to encourage          agreed with IDA, by June 1998;
setting up of private seed houses;
(ii) Loans issued and equipment
procured by January 1999;
(iii) Quantity of elite seed purchased for
multiplication;
(iv) Quantity of certified commercial
seed sold; and
(v) Financially viable seed business
established.
(iv) Strengthen MAWR's regulatory             (i) Complete rehabilitation of facilities,      VSTO annual reports, PltJ progress
services for variety and seed testing:        including relocation of the central seed   .reports and IDA supervisioni missions.
ceritification laboratory is merged with
Variety and Seed Testing organization
(VSTO);
(ii) Number of variety trials conducted at
four sites by crop;
(iii) Regular reports published on results
of trials; and
(iv) Seed certification system
established.
(v) Establish a lcgal framework and           (i) PBR law submitted to Parliament by
procedures for the protection of plant        August 31, 1998;
breeders rights and ensure satisfactory



implementation of Seed Law regulations
governing compulsory certification;
(ii) Regulations on implementation of       VSTO repor-ts and PIU progress reports.
seed law regulations issued by August 31,
1998: and
(iii) Compulsory seed certification
regulations to be reviewed by mid-2000.
(vi) Publication and dissemination of       (i) Publications issued at intervals to be   PIU progress reports
official variety testing results and seed   agreed.
industry informationi.
4-t op   hot et j~  W d . n.                ...  ,,..,   .......d  ..................   . ..... ..... ........  ..... .......  ..... .. .             ......_
6omp'  rnt 4^ Crop Protection and Plant                  .*...**.* .*...
Qaarwttine:                                  .         .                                 .. ..    .~~~~~~~~~~~~_A: ..  ....
(i) Establish a legal framework for the     (i) Draft law on pesticide use to be         PIU progress reports and IDA                 Two types of risks need to be addressed:
regulation of pesticide use and put in      submitted to Parliament by August 31,        supervision missions.
place regulatory structures:                1998;
(ii) Committee responsible for                                                            (a) Likely delays in implementation due
implementing pesticide registration                                                       to insufficient understanding of the need
established and operating by August 31,                                                  to reform and take collaborative actions
1998.                                                                                     with other agencies and services;
(ii) Implement pesticide registration       (i) Bishkek and Osh laboratories of          PIU progress reports and IDA                 (b) Stringent regulations might result in
system and apply regulations for safe       Agency for Chemical Supply and Plant         supervision missions.                        stifling private initiatives in procurement
distribution and use of pesticides, and     Protection (ACSPP) refurbished and                                                        and distribution of agrochemicals, as well
monitor performance at regional level;      operating, and six oblast-level offices                                                   as the provision of related services.
equipped to monitor implementation of
pesticide regulations;
(ii) Oblast quarterly monitoring reports                                                  Risk (a) would be addressed by provision
provided;                                                                                 of technical support including training,
inter-ministerial group work associating
national and foreign specialists; and study
tours abroad.
(iii) Manual on introduction of IPM                                                       Risk (b) will be addressed by prior
produced by June 30, 1999, and                                                            review of laws and regulations by
distributed to RADS centers soon                                                          international experts and IDA.
CJi



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.            .    . . . . . . .                                        .    . .    .    .    .    .     .   ;; .    .   ;.;;;
thereafter; and
(iv) Sustainability of services assured
with plan for consolidation of rayon
offices agreed by December 31, 1999,
scale of charges of services set by mid-
term review in December 31, 2000, with
fees collected retained by agency.
iii) Relocate and rehabilitate key plant    (i) Bishkek center relocated and            PIU progress report.
quarantine centers and improve              refurbished and Osh center rehabilitated
procedures; and                             by December 31, 1999; and
(ii) Report in improved procedures.
(iv) Support membership of European         (i) Republic becomes a member of
Plant Protection Organization.             EPPO, and benefiting from exchange of
information and training of staff.
s.<..rset....-:.               -;  ..-;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........-;.- .;  ....                           .... ..........
MIS coverage to be extended nationwide    Effectiveness of inter-agency                 PlU's progress reports and IDA/IFAD         The main risk is the prevailinig low
(6 ohlasts) from 2 oblasts currently       coordination (in terms of policy direction;  supervision reports.                        implementation capacity which the
covered by a pilot project.                 problem solving and monitoring                                                          project would address through provisioli
performance) through a National                                                         of training to local staff and ensuring
Management Committee (NMC)                                                              effective inter-agency coordination
comprising of representatives of MAWR,
NSC, SDAP, KS, and RADS (SAR,
paras. 4.21 - 4.23)
MIS to collect, process, and disseminate    Range, depth and quality of market          Mid-term  review  of the progress in
relevant market information for the        information coverage and dissemination:   component implementationa; assess
benefit of agricultural producers,          including number and types of               arrangemenits and impact.
processors, traders and policy-makers,     commodities (inputs and outputs); prices
(farm gate, wholesale and retail); use of
stanardseand grades (by commodity);
type of information  covered --local,
national, international; specialized
commodity/market reports prepared;
(Frequency and media used for                                                                                                                 C



NarrtiveSiinMat                         e   ef'nac  lnd60rs  M:: . . :ii:.'.                 t6eJhg.aiid SuperviWoqN1ni:rng                             d Sprv'o
''.'''.'''a"'....  ....-'I..'           y'--;t'-  ............ ....  l,          't'','.",........  ........ :~ M ii~ :                                                 e,
informiiationi dissemiiiationi.
MIS to iicrease tranisparenicy of market       Extent of use of standards and grades in         Field surveys by MIS regionial offices,
transactionis: transimiit incenitives and      market infor-mationi for priority               jointly withi RADCs.
opportunities to agricultural producers:       commodities. and dissemination of
improve producers' bargaining position:        iniformationi on standards and grades to
stimulate competition among traders: and    public.
expand processors' and consumers
choices in pr-oduct selectioni.



68
ANNEX B
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.     Project Cost Summary by Components
Table 2.     Project Cost by Expenditure Accounts
Table 3      Project Cost by Financing Agencies
Table 4.     Project Costs by Expenditure Accounts and Financing Agencies



Table I
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Cost Summary by Components
Foreign   Component
(SON Million)                  (USS Million)          s percent as percent
Local   Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign  Total       of Total of Base Costs
A. Land and Agrarian Reform                               14.22    55.87    70.09         0.81    3.19    4.01            80         15
B. Rural Advisory & Development Services(RADS)
Advisory and Development Services                       34.80    25.46    60.26         1.99    1.45    3.44            42         13
Training, Credit & Secretariat                          23.04    60.24    83.28         1.32    3.44    4.76            72         18
Field Demonstrations and Adaptive Research               9.07    13.29    22.36         0.52    0.76    1.28            59          5
Group Development                                        5.81    15.22    21.02         0.33    0.87    1.20            72          5
Subtotal Rural Advisory & Development Services(RADS)      72.71   114.20   186.91         4.15    6.53   10.68            61         41
C. Seed Industry Development
Crop Breeding Institute (CRI)                            3.78    24.59    28.37         0.22    1.41    1.62            87          6
Forage Breeding Institute (FPRI)                         1.87     5.85     7.71         0.11    0.33    0.44            76          2
Super Elite and Elite Seed Production                    2.17    16.40    18.57         0.12    0.94    1.06            88          4
Commerdal Seed Multiplication                            3.54    24.70    28.25         0.20    1.41    1.61            87          6
Seed Unit in MAWR                                        1.80     7.54     9.33         0.10    0.43    0.53            81          2
Offidal Variety Testing                                  6.20    27.75    33.95         0.35    1.59    1.94            82          7
Seed Certification                                       3.15     4.78     7.93         0.18    0.27    0.45            60          2
Subtotal Seed Industry Development                        22.51   111.60   134.11         1.29    6.38    7.66            83         30
D. Crop Protecton
Plant Quarantine                                         5.65     5.32    10.97         0.32    0.30    0.63            49          2
Plant Protection                                         2.12    10.20    12.32         0.12    0.58    0.70            83          3
Subtotal Crop Protection                                   7.77    15.53    23.29         0.44    0.89    1.33            67          5
E. Agriculture Market Information
Market Information System                               10.79    15.69    26.49         0.62    0.90    1.51            59          6
Subtotal Agriculture Market lnformaton                    10.79    15.69    26.49         0.62    0.90    1.51            59          6
F. Project Implementation Unit                             6.84     6.69    13.53         0.39    0.38    0.77            49          3
Total BASELINE COST                                      134.83   319.58   454.42          7.70   18.26   25.97           70        100
Physical Contingencies                                   4.53    17.05    21.58         0.26    0.97    1.23            79          5
Price Contingencies                                     3842    1340    51.82           2.20    0.77    2.96            26         11
Total PROJECT COST                                       177.78   350.04   527.82         10.16   20.00   3016            66        116



Table 2
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Accounts
Foreign  Component
(SON Millon)                    (USS Million)         s percent  s percent
Local   Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign  Total      of Total of Bas Costs
1. Investnent Cost
A. CMI Works                               9.59     2.40    11.99          0.55    0.14    0.69           20         3
B. Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                      -    10.07    10.07              -    0.58    0.58         100          2
Field Equipment                           -    79.63    79.63              -    4.55    4.55         100         18
Offic Equipront                        7.94    44.90    52.85           0.45    2.57    3.02          85         12
Subtotal Equipmnt                          7.94   134.60   142.54          0.45    7.69    8.15           94        31
C. Vehicles                                   -    27.20    27.20             -    1.55    1.55          100         6
D. Contacted Services                     10.22     6.32    16.54          0.58    0.36    0.95           38         4
E. Technical Assistance
Intemational Costs                        -    60.90    60.90              -    3.48    3.48         100         13
Local Support Expenses                 5.41        -      5.41          0.31       -    0.31           -          1
SubtotaleTchnical Assisance                5.41    60.90    66.31          0.31    3.48    3.79           92        15
F. Training
Oversea Training                          -    12.53    12.53              -    0.72    0.72         100          3
Local Training                        17.53         -    17.53          1.00       -    1.00           -          4
Subtotal Training                         17.53    12.53    30.06           1.00    0.72    1.72          42         7
G. Fafn Development (Credit) Fund                  31.50    31.50             -    1.80    1.80          100         7
Total Investment Costs                      50.70   275.44   326.13          2.90   15.74   18.64           84        72
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Expenses                     44.14    44.14    88.29          2.52    2.52    5.05           50         19
B. Incremental Salaries                   39.99        -    39.99          2.29       -    2.29            -         9
Total Recurrent Costs                       84.14    44.14    128.28         4.81     2.52    7.33         34         28
Total BASELINE COSTS                       134.83   319.58   454.42           7.70   18.26   25.97          70        100
Physical Contingencies                     4.53    17.05    21.58          0.26    0.97    1.23           79         5
Price Contingencies                       38.42    13.40    51.82          2.20    0.77    2.96          26         11
Total PROJECT COSTS                        177.78   350.04   527.82          10.16   20.00   30.16          66        116
0



Table 3
Kyrgyz Republic
Project Costs by Components and by Financing Agencies
Components by FinancIars
(Us$ Million)
Sheep
Developmnt                                                                                                                Local
IDA            IFAD            Project     BENEFICIARIES   GOVERNMENT           SWISS            GTZ              KHF             Total       For.   (Excl.
Amount   %    Amnount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Anount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %                         Exch.   Taxes)
A. Land and Agraan Reform                                3.41    727        -       -       -             0.06     1.2    0.47     9.9        -       -       -       -    0.76    16.2    4.69    15.6    3.61      1.08
B. Rural Advtsory a Developnent Services(RADS)
Advisory and Development Services                                      1.54    36.7    0.73    17.4    0.47    11.2    0.49    11.6    0.53    12.7    0.43    10.3         -       -    4.19    13.9    1.58      2.61
Trainig, Credi6&Serretariat                              -             3.98    74.9    1.06    19.9    0.14      2.6    0.14     2.6       -       -        -       -               -    5.31     176    3.57      1.75
Field Demonstrations and Adaptive Research               -       -    1.41    92.3                -    0.06      3.8    0.06     3.8       -               -                -       -    1.53     5.1    0.84      0.69
Group Devebpment                                         -       .     0.99    71.8                       -       -    0.02      1.3    0.37    26.9                -       -       -    1.37     4.6    0.92      0.46
Subtotal                                                    -       -    7.92    63.8    1.79    14.4    0.67      5.4    0.70     5.7    0.90      7.3    0.43     3.5               -   12.41    41.1    6.90      5.50
C. Seed Indusbry Development
Crop Breeding InsttAte (CRI)                           1.78    95.1       -       -       -       *    0.09      4.9    0.00       -       -       -        -           -       -        1.87     6.2    1.58      0.29
Forage Breeding lnstitute(FPRI)                       0.47    90.9        -       -       -       -    0.05      9.1   .0.00       -       -       -       -        -       -       -    0.51      1.7    0.37     0.14
Super Elte and Elte Seed Production                    1.20   100.0       -       -       -       -               -    0.00                                         -       -            1.20     4.0    1.06      0.15
Commercial Seed Mutiplication                          1.84   100.0       -       -       -       -        *            0.00               -       -        -       -       -       -    1.84      6.1    1.60     0.24
SeedUnftinMAWR                                        0.53    91.3                -       -       -        -            0.05     8.7       -       -       -        -       -            0.59      19    0.45      0.13
Otriial VarietyTesting                                 1.83    81.9           -           -       -    0.19      8.3    0.22     9.8           -           -        -       -       -    2.24      7.4    1.77     0.47
Seed Certificatlon                                     0.43    83.5                                     0.09    16.5    0.00       -                                                     0.52      1.7    0.29     0.23
Subtotal                                                 8.10    92.3               -                     0.41     4.7    0.27     3.1        -       -       -                             8.78    291     7.12     1.65
D. Crop Protection
Plant Quarantine                                       0.58    76.7       -       -       -       -                -    0.18    23.3       -       -        -       -           -        0.76      2.5    0.34     0.42
Plant Protection                                       0.74    90.0               -       -           -            -    0.08    10.0       -       -        -       -       -       *    0.82      2.7    0.66     0.16
Subtotal                                                 1.32    83.6       -       -       -                -       -    0.26    16.4        -       -                                     1.58     52      1 00    0.59
E. Agriculture Market Information
Market Information System                              1.22    68.8       -       -       -       -    0.11      6.2    0.44    25.0       -       -        -       -       -       -    1.77      5.9    0.96     0.80
F. Projec Implementation Uni                             0.94   100.0                     1.79-                      -    0.00       - 2  7  0      3                         - 1           0.94     3.1    0.40     0.63
TotelProject Cost                                        14.98    49.7    7.92    26.2    1.79     5.9    1.25      4.1    2.14     7.1    090      3,0    0.43      1.4    0.76     25   30.16   100.0   20.00    10.16



Table 4
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Cost by Expenditure Accounts and by Financing Agencies
(Including contingencies)
(USS Million)
Sheep
Development                                                                                                                      Local
IDA             IFAD            Project       BENEFICIARIES   GOVERNMENT            SWISS              GTZ              KHF              Total        For.   (Excl.
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %              Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %                        Exch.   Taxes)
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                         0.77    91.6    0.07      8.4        -       -         -       -    0.00        -        -       -        -        -                -    0.84      2.8    0.15      0.69
B. Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                 0.63    94.9    0.03      5.1                     -        -       -        -        -       -            -                -        -    0,66      2.2    0.66         -
Field Equipment                      4.84    93.4    0.34      6.6                -            -  -     -        -       -        -        -            -       -             5.19     17.2    5.19         -
Ofrice Equipment                     2.87    80.9    0.47     13,2    0.02      0.5        -        -    0.12      3.5    0.05       1.3    0.02      0.6       -        -    3.55     11.8    2.95      0.59
Subtotal                              8.34     88.8    0.84      9.0    0.02      0.2        -        -    0.12      1.3    0.05      0.5    0.02      0.2        -             9.39     31.1    8.80      0.59
C. Vehicles                            0.99    56.3    0.63     35.6    0.04      2.0                          -       -    0.07      4.0    0.04       2.0       -              1.76     5.8    1.76
D. Contracted Servtces                 0.28    22.5    0.96     77.5            -            -        -    0.00        -        -       -        -                -              1.24     4.1    0.43      O.81
E. Technical Assistance
IntemationalCosts                    1.30    36.2    0.90     25.1    0.47     13.0                          -       -    0.37      10.3       -             0.55     15.4    3.60     11.9    3.80
LocalSupportExpenses                 0.14    37.4    0.14    38.1    0.01       3.5                                                   -        -             0.08     21.0    037       1.2       -      0.37
Subtotal                               1.44    38.3    1.04     26.3    0.48     12.1         -       -        -       -    0.37      9.3                 -    0.63     159     3 97     13.1    3.60      0.37
F. Training
OverseaTraining                      0.31    41.4    0.33     43.4    0.11     15.3                                                   -            -                -         0.75      2.5    0.75         -
LocalTraining                        0.10     7.2    0.71     51.2    0.44     32.2        -        -        -           -        -        -           -    0.13       9.3    1.38      4.6       -      1.38
Training                               0.41    19.3    1.03    48.5    0.56      26.2         -                -       -        -       -        -        -    0.13      61     213       7.1    0.75      1.38
G. Farm Development (Credit) Fund         -       -    1.80    100.0        -       -         -       -       -        -        -       -        -    _                          1.80     6.0    1.80         -
Total Investment Cost                   12.23    57.9    6.38     30.2     1 09     52                        0.12     0.6    0.49      2.3    0.06       0.3    0.76      36    2113    70.1   17.30        3.8'
II. Recurrent Cost
A. Operating Expenses                  2.30    38.2    1.03     17.1    0.04      0.7      0.85    14.2    1.43    23.7    0.20       3.3    0.17       2.8       -             6.02     20.0    2.71      3.32
B. Incremental Salaries                0.45    14.9    0.50     16.8    0.65     21.6      0.39    13.1    0.59     19.6    0.22      7.2    0.20       6.8       -        -    3.01     10.0       -      3.01
Total RecurrentCost                      2.75    30.4    1.54     17.0    0.69       7.7     1.25    13.8    2.01     22.3    0.42      4.6    0.37       41        -        -    903      29.9    2.71      6.32
Total by Financing Agency               14.98    49.7    7.92      26.2    1.79      5.9     1.25     4.1    2.14      7.1    0.90       3.0    0.43      1.4    0.76      2 5    3016    100.0   20.00   10 16
-.1



73
Annex C
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Implementaiton Plan
A. Implementation Plan
1.    Chart 1 presents key elements of the project's implementation plan.
B. Procurement Plan
2.    Indicative procurement plan for the five-year project plan is presented in Table 1. The
procurement plan for Project Year I will be reviewed with IDA during negotiations.
C. Disbursements
3.    Disbursement percentages for IDA  financing; estimated disbursement schedule,
estimated disbursment profile and flow of funds are provided in Tables 2, 3, 4 and figure 1
respectively.
D. Supervision Plan
4.    Table 5 presents the supervision plan. The IDA and IFAD will coordinate supervision
activities to avoid duplication and reduce supervision costs.
E. Technical Assistance and Training
5.    Activity-wise details for technical assistance and training have been included in Annex 9
of the Implementation File. A list of TORs is provided in Table 6.



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                                         Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                                 Chart 1
1998         1999          2000          2001          2002    1   2003
ID    Task Name                                                                   Duration  Start       Finish    Q4Q1| Q2 Q30401|020304|Q|Q2|03|040Q1 Q21030401|Q2|0304|Q1|Q2 Q3 Q4
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                      316.2w  1/1198     12131103
2         Appoint procurement specialist                                                67d 1/6/98     3/31/98
3         Recruit local staff                                                         1296d 2/1/98      12/31/02
4         Prepare procurement plan for Project Year 1                                 13.4w  1/6/98    3/31/98
5         Prepare Proj.. work plan, budget, monitoring, procurement, reporting & supv.  1320d 1/1/98   12/31/02
6         Tender contract and appoint a Project Implementabon Adviser                 27.2w  1/1/98    6/30/98
7         Establish financial management system for PIU & project agencies            27.2w  1/1/98    6/30/98
Establish & maintain project accounts                                      145.2w 4/1/98     12/31/00
9         Prepare Mid-term Project Implementation Report for IDA review              13.2w  10/2/00    12/31/00                    .
10        Prepare Implementation Completion Report                                    26.4w  7/1/03     12/31/03
1     2. LAND AND AGRARIAN REFORM COMPONENT                                            285w  211/98     6/30103      .             |                   -
12        (a) Preparaton AcUvIties                                                   259.2w  211198     12131/02
13             Recruit LAR advisor & field legal speciaist                            26.6w 4/1/98     -9/30/98      .
14             Canry out legal review                                                 40.2w 4/1/98      12t31/98
15             Procure RCLAR equipment                                                17.8w 6/1/98      9/30/98
16             Recruit M&E specialist                                                 13.2w 6/1/98      8/28/98
17             Establish M&E                                                          30.8w 9/1/98      3131199
Employ public informaton specialist                                     30.8w  9/1/98     3/31/99
1S 9Prepare public information materals                                               30.8w  9/1/98     3/31/99                   -
20             Recruit aucion specialist                                              13.4w 7/1/98      9/30/98*
21             Prepare land auction procedural manual                                 13.6w  10/1/98    12/31/98
22             LAR Training of Local ALRF Aucbon Commissions                         154.4w  2/1/98     12/31/00
23             Procurement of Land Certificates, complete ICB, sign contract         13.6w  6/1/98      9/1/98
24             Procure Land Certificates                                            223.4W  10/1/98    12V31/02_
25        io) Support for Rayon CLAR's                                               123.2w 6/1/98      9/30/00                     __
26             Contracd with Ag. Academy for Trng. of Trainers, Drafted & Signed         9w  6/1/98    -7/31/98.__



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                                           Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                                   Chart 1
1998           999          2000          2001          2002          2003
ID    Task Name                                                                     Duration  Start       Finish    Q401|QQ21031041Qi4Q2l3Q401Q2Q2031               1102|Q30Q4|1QQ2103|Q4|Q1|02|03104
27             Recruit training specalist                                                 Ow 6/11/98      7131198
28             Train core trainers                                                      13.4w  9/1/98     11/30/98
29             Training of CLAR and Village Govemment staff                            109.8w  9/1/98     9/30/00
30             Procure CLAR Equipment (for Chui oblast)                                   1 8w 711/98     10131198
31         (c) Farn Restructuring Support Services                                     262.6w  7/1/98     6/30/03                                               _
32             Prepare Farm Restru. Service (FRS) contract with Kara-Balta               4.4w  9/1/98     9/30/98
33             Prepare FRS training materials                                             27w  711/98     12/31/98                _
34             Conduct FRS farmer training seminars                                    218.8w  11/1/98    12/31/02
35             Procure survey equipment for land share mapping (6 oblasts)             105.4w  7/1/98     6/30/00
36             Hire Incremental staff for land share mapping                            52.8w  7/1/98     6/30/99
37             Update and Issue Land Certificates                                      253.8w  8/31/98    6/30/03
38    3. RURAL ADVISORY & DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (RADS)                                  289.8w  1/1/98     6/30/03            _
39         (a) Central Level                                                           237.6w  1/1/98     61.0;02                   _                       -_
40             Est. RADS Found., RASC & RASC sec. by a charter approv. by govt & spon.   4.2w  1/6/98     1/31/98
41             Appoint RASC chairman and GM for RASC secretariat                          66d 4/1/98      6/30/98
42             Recruit staff for RADS                                                    330d 4/1/98      6/30/99                  -
43             Technical Advisor                                                        1188d 1/1/98      6/30/02
44             Merge SDP's advisory service with RADS                                   26.8w  3/31/98    9/30/98
45         (b) Regional level (6 oblasts)                                                257w  2/15/98    12/31/02                                         _
_    _                           __.           _                                               I          ,             .~~~~~~~'V                               '
46             Appoint RADC managers                                                      73w  2/15/98    6/30/99
47             Recruit RADC staff                                                         66w  4/1/98     6/30/99
48             Recruit rayon staff                                                      79.2w  4/1/98     9/30/99
49             Establish rayon level RADC committees                                    74.8w  5/1/98     9/30/99
50             Establish regional steering committees ( RSC)                              18w 6/1/98      10/1/98           ,
51             Rehabilitate office buildings                                            52.8w  7/1/98     6/30/99                    _
52             Start inital training (staff and farmers)                                79.4w  7/1/98     12/931/99
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                                       Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                                Chart 1
1998         1999          2000         2001          2002         2003
ID    Task Name                         __          _                           Duration  Start       Finish    Q4 Q    2|030Q4Q1 IQ2.  3|Q4 Q1 Q2|03|Q4|01|203|Q4 01|203Q401 Q2030Q
53            Procure equipment                                                      79.4w  7/1/98    12131/99
54            Group training, feld trials &demonstration                            236.8w  7/1/98-  12/31/02                w
55        (c) Adaptive Research                                                     275.3w  4/11/98   6/30/03                     _
56            At RADC's                                                  -          275.8w 4/1/98     6130/03                                                            -
57                 Review existing facilites                                         26.6w  4/1/98    9/30/98
58                 Prepare yearl program and budget                                  17.8w 6/1/98     9/30/98
59                 Rehabilitate farm buildings                                       79.4w  7/1/98    12/31/99                     -
60                 Procure farm/lab equipment                                        26.4w  5/3/99    11/1/99
61                 Implement trials                                                 253.6w  9/1/98    6/30/03
62            C-o nt-raCt-e   _ Resea rc_h                                          262.6w  7/1/98    6130/03  -
63                 Prepare 3 prionty programs                                         27w 7/1/98      12/31/98               _
64                 Appoint program leaders                                           52 8w 7/1/98     6/30/99
65                 Prepare/evaluater.bids                                =          184.4  7/1/98     12131/01
66                Implement program                                                 253.6w  9/1/98    6/30/03
67        (d) Farm Development Fund (managed by KAFC)                              287.6w  1/15/98    6/30/03
68            Signature of Framework Agreement                                      11.8w  1/15/98    3/31/98
69            Prepare supplementary Guidelines and Approach                           18w  7/1/98     10/31/98
70            Annual Work Plan and Budget                                            4.6w  7/1/98     7/31/98
71            Establish KAFC regional Offices (3)                                   52.8w  7/1/98     6/30/99
72            Organize UNDP Farmer Groups, prepare subloans applications             118w  7/15/98    10/9/00             _
73            Group Loan - appraisal and disbursements                             262.6w 7/1/98  6/30/03                 _
74    (e) Implement Pilot Credit Activities(through RADS Foundation)               262.6w 7/1/98   6/30/03                _
75   4. SEED COMPONENT                                                         [   318.8w 1Z115197   12/31/03
__ ______    _ _.___ ._ .......... .. ............................... _ .._._  31.w    ,    1 2 31/0.3.
76        CRI and FPRI - Variety Acquisition and Development                       316.2w  11/98      12/31/03
77            Procure critical equipment (under PPF)                                  20w 1/1/98      5/12/98
78             Prepare for IDA review annual seed breeding program                 191 .2w  7/1/98    2/15/02    _    i



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                                Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                         Chart 1
1_  _  _ _                        |   1998    I   1999         2000         2001    1   2002    1   2003
ID _ Task Name                                   ____ _  Duration Start                        Finish    Q40Q1  Q2341 Q2 Q3|Q4 Q1 Q2304 |Q  02 |Q3Q4 Q1 Q20Q30Q40Q1 Q2 0Q3Q4
79                1 st year seed breeding program                                6w 7/1/98    8/10/98
80                2nd year seed breeding program                                 6w 1/4/99    2/12/99
81                3rd year seed breeding program                                 6w  1/3/00    2/11/00
82                4th year seed breeding program                                 6w 1/1/01    2/9/01
83                5th year seed breeding program                                 6w  1/7/02    2/15/02
84            Prepare plan and specifications for the first year procurement    4.8w 1/16/98   2/15/98
85            Obtain germplasm from International Institutes                 210.4w 7/1/98    6/30/02             _
86            Select topics /areas for first year program                      13.4w 7/1/98    9/30/98
87            Technical assistance and staff training                          289w 7/1/98    12/31/03
88                Prepare and approve training program                         52.8w 7/1/98    6/30/99
89                Initial training/information visits to outside centers (under PPF)  37.6w 7/16/98   3/31/99
90                Staff training                                               289w 7/1/98    12/31/03    .                                                     _
91                Technical assistance for ureeding programs                  184.4w 7/1/98    12/31/01                   -       _
92            Rehabilitation of buildings                                      79.4w  711/98    12131199
93                Bishkek stes                                                  27w 7/1/98    12/31/98
94                Outstations                                                   66w  10/1/98   12/31/99
95            Procurement of equipment                                         79.4w  7/1/98    12131/99
96                Bishkek sites                                                 27w 7/1/98    12/31/98
97                Outstations                                                   66w 10/1/98   12/31/99
98        Multiplication of Super Elite and Elite Seed                        236.8w 7/1/98    12/31/02
99            Prepare sub project feasibility studies                          52.8w 7/1/98    6/30/99
100           Approve subloans                                                 52.6w  9/1/98    8/31/99
101           Repair existing equipment                                        52.8w 7/1/98    6/30/99
102           Prepare specifications for new equipment                           27w 7/1/98    12/31/98
103           Procure equipment                                                21.6w 2/1/99    6/30/99                    -
104           Prepare building rehabilitation plans                              18w 7/1/98    10/31/98



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                           Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                    Chart 1
1998      1  999        2000        2001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                                          Duration Start     Finish   Q4 I92|Q31Q4IQ1 IQ2LQ3|Q4IQ1 Q21031Q4 IQI1Q2|Q3|4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4Q1| Q2|Q3|Q4
105          Tender building rehabilitation contract                         18w 9/1/98    12/31/98
106          Rehabilitate Buildings                                        61.4w 11/1/98   12/31/99                    -
107          Production of Super Elite and Elite seed                     227.8w 9/1/98    12/31/02                I       I
108       Pilot Commercial Seed Production                                282.8w 2/15/98   6130103      _          i iI                  i      n                        _
109          Agree selection criteria with IDA                              2.6W 2/15/98   3/1/98        I I
110          Select pilot seed farms (3)                                   13.4w 5/1/98    7/31/98
111          Approve subloans, prepare contracts and loan arrangements     52.8w 7/1/98    6/30/99     .          -
112          Procure equipment                                             39.4w 10/1/98   6/30/99        I
113          Production of commercial seed                                222.8w 4/1/99    6/30/03
114          Performance monitoring                                       222.8w 4/1/99    6/30/03        |
115          Training workshop and study tour                               4.4w 7/15/99   8/13/99
116      Variety and Seed Testing Organization                            216.8vW 312198    4i12102     u                                                 _
117          Tec. Asst. for draviing up building & lab. rehab.. plans (unider ppf)  13.2w 4/1/98    6/30198 j
118          Procure emergency equipment needs (under ppf)                 13.2w 4/1/98    6/30/98
119          Prepare procurement proposals for Rehab plans                 17.8w 4/1/98    7/31/98
120          Relocate Bishkek seed testing laboratory                      26.2w 9/1/98    2/26/99 .
121          Rehabilitation of other buildings                               22w 3/1/99    7/30/99        ,            _
122          Procure equipment (variety testing and seed certification)   114.2w 4/1/98    5/31/00        _
123          Training and technical assistance                            216.8w 3/2/98    4/12/02
_ __            .. _                            .       .     
124              Appoint variety testing specialist                          66w 71/98    9/30/99                   -
125              Seed certification specialist                               66w 7/1/98    9/30/99                  -
126              Study tours                                                 66w 711198    9/30/99                  -
127              CRI & FPRI annual Seed breeding programs                 216.8w 3/2/98    4/1V02 l0
133              Local training                                            70.4w 6/1/98    9/30/99                 -
134      Seed Unit in MAWR                                                214.2w 12/15/97  12/31/01
135          Prepare, clear and issue LOI for recruitment of Seed spec..(under PP  7.8w 12/15/97  2/2/98
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                        Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                 Chart 1
1998   |   1999      2000        2001   |  2002         2003
ID   Task Name                                                        Duration Start    Finish   Q4|Q1 |Q2|Q3|Q4Q1| Q2|Q3|Q4|Ql Q2|Q3|Q4Q1| Q2|Q3|Q4Q1| Q2|Q3|Q4Q1| Q2|Q3|Q4
136          Select technical experts following response to LOI            9w 3/1/98    4/30/98       *
137          Establish National Seed Association                           27w 7/1/98    12/31/98
138          Appoint Seed Specialist and counterpart                    184.4w 7/1/98    12/31/01      I
139          Appoint sub-group of Proj.. St. Comm. to oversee Impi.. of Seed comr  4w 1/1/98    1/27/98 I
140          Adopt policy guidelines for seed certification              26.8w 7/1/98    12/30/98    .
141          Submit Law on Plant Breeders Rights to Parliament              9w 7/1/98    8/31/98
142          Procure equipment and vehicle                                 27w 7/1/98    12/31/98
143          Implement Training program                                 171.2w 9/30198   12/31/01                                               . 
144  6. Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine                            271.4w 5/1/98    6/30/03
145      (a) Crop protection                                            271.4w 6/1198    6/30/03
146          Submit draft law on pesticides and pest control to Parliament  13.4w 7/1/98    9/30/98
147          Introduce pesticide registration system                     70.4w 9/1/98    12/31/99
148          Techmncal assistance with laboratory plans and specification (PPF)  17.8w 5/1/98    8/31/98
149          Rehabilitate Bishkek and Osh laboratories                     66w 10/1/98   12/31/99
150          Procure equipment for Bishkek and Osh                         66w 10/1/98   12/31/99
151          Procure equipment for 6 oblast centers                        66w 10/1/98   12/31/99
152          Plan for consolidation of rayon centers                      6.8w 3/1/99    4/1999
153          Prepare crop protection and plant quarantine manual         52.8w 7/1/98    6/30/99
154          RADCs to advise farmers on use of pesticide in IPM context  262.6w 7/1/98    6/30/03   .
155          Training and technical assistance                          235.6w 1/1/99    6/30/03
156              Technical assistance                                    25.8w 1/1/99    6/30/99       I
157              Staff training                                         235.6w 1/1/99    6/30/03 
158      (b) Plant quarantine                                            88.2w 5/1/98    12/31/99
159          Visit to EPPO (under PPF)                                     18w 7/1/98    10/31/98
160          Technical assistance with laboratory plans and specification  4.4w 5/1/98    5/31/98
161          Rehabilitate quarantine centers at Bishkek and Osh          79.4w 7/1/98    12/31/99
_                               .                  ,                         ___                    _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



Agricultural Support Services Project                                                                           Annex C
Draft Implementation Plan                                                                                   Chart 1
1   1998    1   1999            2000          2001           200          2003
ID    Task Name                                                                     Duration  Start       Finish    Q40Q1 0Q20Q30Q41 Q Q2Q  Q401           Q30Q43 Q101Q2|Q30Q4|Q1 02Q3|Q4|1  TQ2|3|Q4
162             Procure equipment                                                       79.4w  7/1/98      12/31/99
163   6. Agricultural Market Information                                                 75.4w  1/31)98   6/30/99
164        Establish MIS by a decree                                                      4.8w  1/31198    2/28/98       I.
165        Establish Advisory Groups                                                      27w  7/1/98      12/31/98
166        Fommalise MAWR unit, complete staffing, establish work program                 27w  7/1/98      12131198
167         stablish sub-units in oblasts                                                 27w  7/1/98      12/31/98
168        Extend MIS to other 4 oblasts                                                 S2.8w  7/1/98    6/30/99
co
CD



Kyrgyz Republic - Agricultural Support Services Project                                  Annex C
Procurement Plan                                                      Table I
1                       2               3              4              5                                6. Estimated Schedule *
See details in Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 10)
Component                          Type              No. of      Estimated cost  Procurement    Pre-           Document    Invitation to  Contract     Contract
subpackages   (IJS!)         method         qualification   preparation    bid         Award/      Completion
Signing
Land and Agrarian Reform
Office Equipment                   G              4                  1,456,809    ICB           NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years 1998-2001
Vehicles                           G              15                  660,321    IS             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years 1998-2001
Issuance of Land Certificates      G              1                   750,000    ICB            NA              7/98          Spread over Project Years 1998-2002
Total                                                             2,867,130
Seed Development
Rehabilitation ofBuildings         CW                1                105,425    NCB            NA              5/98-6/98     7/98-8/98    | 9/98-10/98   | 11/98-12/98
Rehabilitation of Buildings        CW               1O                368,294    MW             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2000
Lab Eqpt., Field Eqpt.,Office Equipment  G           16             4,820,758    ICB            NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2000
Lab Eqpt., Field Eqpt.,Office Equipment  G          21                505,086    IS             NA              5/9S          Spread over Project Years untill year 1999
Vehicles                           G                 1                 12,129    IS             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2001
Consultant Services for CRI, FPRI, Seed   CF         5               621,445     QCBS           NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2001
Unit in MAWR, Official Variety Testing
& Seed Certification Division
Consultant Services for CRI, FPRI, Seed   CF         2                63,390     LC             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2001
Unit in MAWR, Official Variety Testing
& Seed Certification Dih i,n                                                                __on
Consultant Services for CRI, FPRI, Seed   CF         5                69,724     IND            NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years untill year 2001
Unit in MAWR, Official Variety Testing
& Seed Certification Division
Training                           TR                8               238,498                    NA
Total            _                                              6,804,749
Crop Protection                     __.
Rehabilitation of Buildings        CW                2               246,700     NCB            NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years 1998-1999
Rehabilitation of Buildings        CW                2                49,340     MW             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years 1998-1999
Lab Eqpt., Field Eqpt.,Office Equipment  G           10               546,384    IS             NA              6/98          Spread over Project Years 1999-2000
Lab Eqpt., Field Eqpt.,Office Equipment  CG          2                 22,588    NS             NA              6/98          Spread over Project Years 1999-2000
Vehicles                            G                1                 35,640    NS             NA              5/98-6/98     7/98-8/98     9/98-10/98    11/98-12/98
Vehicles                            G                1                 73,278    IS             NA              5/98-6/98     7/98-8/98     9/98-10/98    11/98-t2/98
Consultant Services for Plant Quarantine   CF        6                 87,334    IND            NA              6/98          7/98-8/98     9/98-10/98    11/98-12/98
& Plant Protection
Training                            TR               2                 63,390                   NA
Total              -__                             .             1,124,654                                              _
Agriculture Market Information
Office Equipment                    G                4                324,685    IS             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years until year 2001
Office Equipment                    C                1                 20,417    NS             NA              5/98-6/98     7/98-8/98        9/98-10/98    11/98-12/98
Vehicles                            G                3                 62,370    IS             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years until year 2001
Consultant Services for             CF               4                262,605    QCBS           NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years until year 2001
KAMIS,NSC,SDAM & KYSTKYAG
Tech. Project.
Consultant Services for             CF               4                 19,552    SS             NA              5/98          Spread over Project Years until year 2001
KAMIS,NSC,SDAM & KYSTKYAGRO                                                                                                                                              co
Tech. Project.                                                                                                              .
Training                            TR               3                109,029                   NA
Total     -                                                       798,657                                 _



Kyrgyz Republic - Agricultural Support Services Project
Procurement Plan
1                          2                 3                  4                 5                                      6. Estimated Schedule
Component                            Type                  No. of         Estimated cost   Procurement       Pre-               Document        Invitation to   Contract       Contract
slicesitenis/                      method           qualification      preparation     bid            Award/         Completion
subpackages                                                                                           Signing
Project Implementationt Unit
Office Equipment                     G                   2                   27,076         NS               NA                 5/98-6/98       7/98-8/98       9/98-10/98      11/98-12/98
Vehicles                             G                   1                   17,820        NS                NA                 5/98-6/98       7/98-898         9/98-10/98     11/98-12/98
Consultant Services Implementation   CF                  1                 277,207          QCBS             NA                 5/98            Spread over Project Years 1998-1999
Adviser,
Consultant Services Impact           CF                  2                  208,960         QCBS             NA                 5/98            Spread over Project Years 1998-1999
Evaluation & for Mid-term review
Contracted services Monitoring and    CF                 1                   69,597         LC               NA                 5/98            Spread over Project Year until year 2002
Evaluation
Contracted services local Support    CF                  I                   39,411         SS               NA                 5/98            Spread over Project Year until year 2002
Total                                                            _       640,071
Operating Cost
Land and Agrarian Reform                                                                  l
Incrc:-r ,rt':iI Salaries                                                    34.072       1                  NA
Opera:his Expenses                                                          508,159                          NA
Total                                                                   542,231
Seed Development
Incremental Salaries                                                         86,648                          NA
Operating Expenses                                                         1,204,080                         NA
Total                                                                  1,290,728
Crop Protection
Incremental Salaries                                                         27,698                          NA
Operating Expenses                                                          173,923                          NA
Total                                                                   201,621
Agriculture Market Information
Incremental Salaries                                                         93,765                          NA
Operating Expenses                                                          324,654                          NA
Total                                                                   418,419
Project Imptementation Unit
Incremental Salaries                                                        206,876                          NA
Operating Expenses                                                           88,278                          NA
Total                                                                   295,154                          NA
Total Procurement For IDA                           ,                     14,980,000 
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding
CW - Civil Works; costing less than USS100,000 each, are classified as minor works, but these cosld be consolidated to be
procured as NCBs. Possibilities of consolidation are indicated by an asterisk.('). Similarly National Shopping contracts could also be consolidated for purposes of
procurement through Intemational Shopping
G  -Goods
CF - Consulting Firms                              SS - Single Source r
TR - Training                                      LC - Least Cost
ICB - International Competitive Bidding            Operating Expenses - inclades vehicle maintenance, office consumables, chemicals. fertilizers etc.
NCB- National Competitive Bidding                  PY - Project Year
QCBS - Quality Cost Based Selection                IND - Individual
IS - Intemational Shopping                         CF - Consulting Firms



83
Annex C
Table 2
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
% of expenditures
Amount               to be financed
Civil Works                           0.60               100% foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
Goods                                 8.25               100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 80%
of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants'                           1.80               100%
Services and Training
Operating Costs                        2.36        100% until June 30, 1999; 85% until June
30, 2000; 65% until June 30, 2001; 45%
until June 30, 2002; and 20% thereafter.
Refunding of                           0.50
Project Preparation
Advance
Unallocated                            1.47
TOTAL                  14.98



84
Annex C
Table 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Agricultural Support Services Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                    Disbursements             Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                         by Quarter                  by end of Quarter
1999
1st Quarter                           0.5                           0.5
2nd Quarter                           0.5                            1.0
3rd Quarter                           0.5                            1.5
4th Quarter                           0.5                            2.0
2000
1st Quarter                           0.5                           2.5
2nd Quarter                           0.5                            3.0
3rd Quarter                           0.6                            3.6
4th Quarter                           0.6                            4.2
2001
1st Quarter                           0.7                           4.9
2nd Quarter                           0.7                            5.6
3rd Quarter                           0.8                            6.4
4th Quarter                           0.8                            7.2
2002
ist Quarter                           1.0                           8.2
2nd Quarter                           1.0                            9.2
3rd Quarter                           1.0                           10.2
4th Quarter                           1.0                           11.2
2003
1st Quarter                           1.0                          12.2
2nd Quarter                           1.0                           13.2
3rd Quarter                           0.5                           13.7
4th Quarter                           0.5                          14.2
2004
1st Quarter                           0.5                          14.7
2nd Quarter                           0.3                          15.0
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding. SDR amount is equivalent of US$14.98 million.



Annex C
Kyrgyz Republic                                                 Figure 1
Agricultural Support Services Project
Flow of Funds /1
I              IDA                                                |                     IFAD
Credit                                                                   Loan
[  Ministry of Finance & Economy      l                        |        Ministry of Finance & Economyl
Ak
F        PIU                    Financial
(MAWR)                   Institution
(Agency)                                       Grant                        Equity
. .  vv ._  ._ ._ __                    -                                 RADS                    Kyrgyz Agricultural
V Project Implementing         Seed FarmsKyrgyz Agricultural
Agencies                                                            |Foundation                Finance Corporation
A                                 A
Oblast level                      KAFC
RADCs                       Oblast/Rayon
Offices
Rayon                        Farmers &
Centes                      Farmer Groups
/1 Govemment budgetary contribution will be channeled through a Project Account (SAR, para 3.37). Bilateral donors will disburse grants following their respective procedures.
01
R* Represents cost recovery andlor subloan repayments.-s



86
Annex D
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Support Services Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
List of Tables
1. Yields of Main Crops (1989-1996)
2. Areas of Main Crops and Changes in Cropping Pattern, 1989-96
3. Financial Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Wheat, Barley and Maize)
4. Financial Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Sugarbeet, Lucerne, Cotton)
5. Farm Model 1: Individual Household in Kara Balta (Financial)
6. Farm Model 2: Peasant Farm in Kara Balta (Financial)
7. Farm Model 3: Individual Household in Osh (Financial)
8. Farm Model 4: Family Farm in Osh (Financial)
9. Economic Prices for Main Inputs and Outputs
10. Economic Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Wheat, Barley and Maize)
11. Economic Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Sugarbeet, Lucerne, Cotton)
12. Farm Model 1: Individual Household in Kara Balta (Economic)
13. Farm Model 2: Peasant Farm in Kara Balta (Economic)
14. Farm Model 3: Individual Household in Osh (Economic)
15. Farm Model 4: Family Farm in Osh (Economic)
16. Economic Analysis: Base Scenario and Switching Value (1): Reduced
Farm Household Participating Rate
17. Economic Analysis: Switching Values 2 and 3: Reduced Benefits and Higher
Project Cost



87
Annex D
Table I
Yields of Main Crops (1989 - 1996) (tons/ha)
Average                                                   Average   Change
1989     1990      1991 1989-1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996 1994-1996 1989-1996
Wheat             3.1     2.64      2.24      2.66      2.73     2.62       1.7      1.83      2.3       1.9      -27%
Barley           2.27     2.37      2.06      2.23     2.36      2.16       1.5      1.3       1.7       1.5     -33%
Grain Maize      6.81     6.18      5.85      6.28      5.13     4.52      3.53     3.74       4.0       3.8     -40%
Potato           13.4     13.6      13.7    13.57       12.4     10.8        9       9.9      11.4      10.1     -25%
Sugar-beet       16.9     16.9      15.6    16.47       21.3     18.8      11.6     12.3      13.3      12.4     -25%
Cotton           2.75     2.73      2.45      2.64      2.44     2.42      2.02      2.2       2.3       2.2      -18%
Tobacco          2.53     2.16      2.12      2.27      2.08     2.19      1.92      2.1       2.1       2.0      -11%
Vegetables       21.5     19.6       18      19.70      15.4       14      11.5      10.3     11.2      11.0      -44%
Source: National Statistics Comittee, Kyrgyzstan
() Over 5 years for sugar-beet
Yield Trends from 1989 to 1996 (base 0 in 1989)
30%
20%-
1<s                      199    /     > 1992        993    \ 1994            1995         1G96
l4\Wheat
|-1V \,   - ------                                                      ----------------         \     \|Barley
-fr-Gtain Maize
-*  Potato
-20%   - ---------------------                                            X ~~~~~~~~~~~-* Sugar-beet
-e-Cotton
4-Tobacco
430%   - ---------------------,- vegetables
-60%



88
Annex D
Table 2
Areas of Main Crops (1989 - 1996) (thousand hectares)
Change
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996  1989-1996
Wheat            196.8    193.6    193.6    248.4    338.3    333.1    363.9    451.5                129%
Barley           250.3    266.4    290.1    263.5    235.5    206.7    150.7    108.4               -57%
Grain Maize       66.3       65.7      62.3      54.7      40.7      36.6       35       45.6        -31%
Potato             22.6      25.2      22.5      27.2      26.6      34.2      43.8      49.2       118%
Sugar-beet            -       0.1       0.8       6.3      11.7       9.8      13.5      14.3
Cotton            26.9       29.7      25.9      21.5      20.3      26.5      33.2      31.7         18%
Tobacco            19.9      19.1      19.9      20.8      22.2      18.9       8.5       8.7        -56%
Vegetables        23.4       20.7      19.5      22.2      14.9      22.4      32.2      32.8         40%
Source: National Statistics Comittee, Kyrgyzstan
(*) Over 5 years for sugar-beet
Main Changes in the Cropping Pattern from 1989 to 1996 (base 0 in 1989)
140%
120%         -       --  -  -  -  .  .  .--
100% -- .  ... -   . . . ..  - .    .  .                       ---
-  *+Wheat
6 0%  -    ---------    ---  ---     ---------------------     ---------     - U -   B arley
/ -Grain Maize i
40%          ...... .           .. ... -- -/-------------- --  --------- ---  X    Potato   I
l|)  Cotton
-|--Tobacco
0 -4--Vegetables
-40% 



89
Annex D
Table 3
Table 3. Financial Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Wheat, Barley, Maize)
Existing Technology         Potential Improved Technology
Unit      Quantity Unit Value    Value  Quantity Unit Value    Value % increase
Winter wheat
Yield              ton            1.9    2,500    4,750       2.7    2,500    6,750      42%
By-product         ton             2        40       80        3        40      120      50%
Seed               kg            230         4     (920)     200       4.0    (800)    -13%
N fertilizers                                                150      2.20    (330)
P fertilizers                                                100      2.20     (220)
K fertilizers                                                100      2.60    (260)
Pesticides                                                     2       100    (200)
Herbicides         kg              2       150    (300)        2       150    (300)       0%
Irrigation         m3           3400    0.020       (68)    3400    0.020       (68)      0%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha       1       800    (800)        1       800    (800)       0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha        1    1,000   (1,000)        1    1,200   (1,200)       20%
Transporation      ton/SOkm       1.9      100    (190)       2.7      100    (270)
Sub-total cash costs                             (3,278)                     (4,448)     36%
Gross Margin                                      1,552                       2,422       56%
Labour requirement  daylha                           20                          20        0%
Return per labour    som/day                         78                         121       56%
Barley
Yield              ton            1.5    2,500    3,750       2.2    2,500    5,500       47%
By-product         ton            1.2       40       48       1.2       40       48       0%
Seed               kg            170         4     (680)     160       4.0    (640)       -6%
N fertilizers                                                150      2.20    (330)
P fertilizers                                                100      2.20     (220)
K fertilizers                                                 50      2.60    (130)
Pesticides                                                     1       100    (100)
Herbicides         kg             1.5      150    (225)        2       150    (300)      33%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha       1       800    (800)        1       800    (800)        0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha        1       800    (800)        1    1,000   (1,000)       25%
Transporation      ton/50km       1.5      100    (150)       2.2      100    (220)
Sub-total cash costs                             (2,655)                     (3,740)     41%
Gross Margin           .                          1,143                       1,808       58%
Labour requirement  day/ha                           20                          20
Return per labour    som/day                         57                          90       58%
Maize
Yield              ton            3.8    1,500    5,700       6.3    1,500    9,450       66%
By-product         ton             5        40      200       10        40      400      100%
Seed               kg             25         8     (200)      25       8.0    (200)        0%
N fertilizers                                                300      2.20    (660)
P fertilizers                                                200      2.20     (440)
K fertilizers                                                100      2.60     (260)
Pesticides                                                     1       100    (100)
Herbicides         kg                                          4        70    (280)
Irrigation         m3           3500    0.020       (70)    3500    0.020       (70)       0%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha        1    1,000   (1,000)       1    1,000   (1,000)        0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha         1    1,500   (1,500)        1    2,000   (2,000)      33%
Transporation      ton/50km       3.8      100    (380)       6.3      100    (630)
Sub-total cash costs                             (3,150)                     (5,640)      79%
Gross Margin                                      2,750                       4,210       53%
Labour requirement  day/ha                           40                          40
Return per labour    som/day                         69                         105       53%
Basic assumptions:
1) Yields: Existing technology corresponds to average yield 1994-1996 in the country; Improved technology
is conservativey assumed to reach the average yields from 1989 to 1991 (see Table 1)
2) Source for input quantities and costs: specially commissioned farm management survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996,
by TACIS advisers. Survey on 12 different farms (unit costs have been updated in 1997).



90
Annex D
Table 4
Table 4. Financial Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Sugarbeet, Luceme, Cotton)
Existing Technology          Potential Improved Technology
Unit      Quantiy Unit Value    Value  Quantity UnitValue    Value % increase
Sugarbeet
Yield                ton            12.4                -        16.5
Processed main product ton          1.38     8,000   11,022      1.83     8,000   14,667       33%
By-product: pulp     ton            13.8       80    1,102       18.3       80    1,467        33%
Mollasses                           1.05      100       105      1.75      100       175
Off-farm processing                                  (6,000)                      (7,500)
Seed                  kg             12        50      (600)      12       50.0    (600)        0%
N fertilizers                       120        2.2    (264)      200        2.2    (440)
P fertilizers                        75        2.2    (165)       100       2.2     (220)
K fertilizers                        20        2.6      (52)      50        2.6    (130)
Pesticides                                                          2       60      (120)
Herbicides            kg              2       110      (220)        2      110      (220)       0%
Irrigation            m3           5000      0.020     (100)    5000      0.020     (100)       0%
Mechanized Cultivabon  Is/ha          1       800      (800)        1      800      (800)       0%
Mechanized Harvesting  Istha          1       100      (100)        1      150      (150)       50%
Transporation         ton/SOkm      1.38      100      (138)     1.83      100      (183)       33%
Sub-total cash costs                                 (2,439)                      (2,963)      22%
Gross Margin                                          3,791                        5,845        54%
Labour requirement    day/ha                             20                           20        0%
Retum per labour      som/day                           190                          292        54%
Luceme
Yield                ton              6       500    3,000          9      500    4,500         50%
Seed                  kg              5        40      (200)        5      50.0    (250)       25%
P fertilizers                                                      50       2.2    (110)
K fertilizers                                                      50       2.6    (130)
Irrigation            m3           5500      0.020     (110)    5500      0.020     (110)        0%
Mechanized Cultivation  Islha         1       200      (200)        1      200      (200)        0%
Mechanized Harvesting  Is/ha          1       400      (400)        1      600      (600)      50%
No transportation                   6.00       -        -        9.00       -        -
Sub-toal cash costs                                    (910)                       (1,400)     54%
Gross Margin                                          2,090                        3,100       48%
Labour requirement    day/ha                             50                           50
Retum per labour      sornfday                           42                           62       48%
Cotton
Yield                ton             2.2                         2.64                           20%
Processed product    ton            0.69    12,400    8,525      0.83    12,400   10,230
By-product            ton            1.4    1,200    1,650        1.7    1,200    1,980
Off-farm processing                                  (2,300)                      (2,300)
Seed                  kg            135        3.6    (486)       120       3.6    (432)
N fertilizers         kg            500        2.2   (1,100)      400       2.2    (880)
P fertilizers         kg            125        2.2    (275)       200       2.2    (440)
K fertilizers         kg             20        2.6      (52)      100       2.6    (260)
Farmnyard manure     ton             0.9      300      (270)      0.9      300      (270)
Pesticides                            4       130      (520)        5       130     (650)
Herbicides            kg                                            6       70      (420)
Irrigation            m3           9000      0.020     (180)    9000      0.020     (180)
Mechanized Cultivation  Is/ha         1      1,250   (1,250)        1     1,400   (1,400)
Transporation         ton/50km      0.69      100       (69)     0.83       100      (83)
Sub-total cash costs                                 (4,202)                      (5,015)       19%
Gross Margin                                          3,673                        4,896       33%
Labour requirement    day/ha                            170                          180
Return per labour     0orn/day                           22                           27        26%
Basic assumptions:
1) Yields: Existing technology corresponds to average yield 1994-1996 in the country; Improved technology
is conservativey assumed to reach the average yields from 1989 to 1991 (see Table 1)
2) Source for input quantities and costs: specially commissioned farm management survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996,
by TACIS advisers. Survey on 12 different farms (unit costs have been updated in 1997).



Annex D          9 1
Table 5
Farm Model 1. Individual Household in Kara-Balta (1): Financial -Amounts in Som
W/o project    With project   Incremental   % increase
total area (2), including                        10             10           -              0%
Wheat                                             4              4           -              0%
Barley                                            2             2            -              0%
Maize                                             1              1           -              0%
Sugarbeet                                         1              1           -              0%
Lucerne                                           2             2            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                         (3,278)       (4,448)       (1,170)          36%
Barley                                        (2,655)       (3,740)       (1,085)          41%
Maize                                         (3,150)       (5,640)       (2,490)          79%
Sugarbeet                                     (2,439)       (2,963)         (525)          22%
Lucerne                                        (910)        (1,400)         (490)          54%
Total operating costs                        (25,831)      (36,675)       (10,845)         42%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                   (5,422)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                         4i.830         6,870         2,040           42%
Barley                                        3,798          5,548         1,750           46%
Maize                                          5,900         9,850         3,950           67%
Sugarbeet (net of processing)                  6,229         8,808         2,579           41%
Lucerne                                       3,000          4,500         1,500           50%
Gross Margin (for the farm)
Wheat                                          6,208         9,688          3,480           56%
Barley                                        2,286          3,616         1,330           58%
Maize                                         2,750          4,210         1,460           53%
Sugarbeet                                      3,791         5,845         2,054           54%
Lucerne                                       4,180          6,200         2,020           48%
Total Gros margin                             19,215        29,559        10,344           54%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)                 1,000         1,000           .              0%
Net income before taxes                       18,215        28,559        10,344           57%
Land Tax (c} Som 100 per ha)                  1,000          1,000                          0%
Net income after tax                          17,215        27,559        10,344           60%
Net income per person (6 members)             2,869          4,593         1,724           60%
Net income per ha                              1,721         2,756         1,034           60%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the su .ey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Financial Rate of Return
Year             1             2              3          4-20
Investment Cost (a)                           (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                              (713)         (713)          (713)         (713)
Net Income w/o project (c)                    17,215        17,215        17,215         17,215
Net Income with Project (c)                   17,215        20,663        24,111         27,559
Incremental Net Benefit                         -            3,448         6,896         10,344
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)      -            1,379         2,758          4,138
Net Benefit Stream (W/P)                     (10,244)         666          2,045          3,424
FRR                                             25%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D 0
Table 6
Farm Model 2. Peasant farm in Kara-Balta (1) Financial - Amounts in Som
W/o project    With project    Incremental    % increase
total area (2), including                         47              47                            0%
Wheat                                             20              20                            0%
Barley                                            16             16                             0%
Maize                                              2              2                             0%
Sugarbeet                                          3               3                            0%
Lucerne                                            6              6                             0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                          (3,278)        (4,448)        (1,170)           36%
Barley                                         (2,655)        (3,740)        (1,085)           41%
Maize                                          (3,150)        (5,640)        (2,490)           79%
Sugarbeet                                     t2,439)         (2,963)          (525)           22%
Lucerne                                         (910)         (1,400)          (490)           54%
Total operating costs                        (127,116)      (177,370)       (50,254)           40%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                     (25,127)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                           4,830          6,870          2,040            42%
Barley                                         3,798           5,548          1,750            46%
Maize                                           5,900          9,850          3,950            67%
Sugarbeet (net of processing)                   6,229          8,808          2,579            41%
Lucerne                                         3,000          4,500          1,500            50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                          31,040         48,440         17,400            56%
Barley                                         18,288         28,928         10,640            58%
Maize                                           5,500          8,420          2,920            53%
Sugarbeet                                      11,372         17,535          6,163            54%
Lucerne                                        12,540         18,600          6,060            48%
Total Gros margin                              78,740        121,923         43,183            55%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)                 4,700           4,700            -               0%
Net income before taxes                       74,040         117,223         43,183            58%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                    4,700           4,700            -               0%
Net income after tax                          69,340         112,523         43,183            62%
Net income per household (5 HHs)              13,868          22,505          8,637            62%
Net income per person (30 members)              2,311          3,751          1,439            62%
Net income per ha                               1,475          2,394           919             62%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the survey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input req ,rements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Financial Rate of Return
Year              1              2              3           4-20
Investment Cost (a)                            (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                               (713)          (713)          (713)           (713)
Net Income per HH wlo project (c)             13.868          13,868         13,868         13,868
Net Income per HH with Project (c)            13,868          16,747         19,626         22,505
Incremental Net Benefit                          -             2,879          5,758          8,637
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (dl                     1,152          2,303          3 455
Net Benefit Stream (W/P)                      (10,244)          438           1,590          2,741
FRR                                   |          21%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the Irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D            93
Table 7
Farm Model 3. Individual Household in Osh (1): Financial - Amounts in Som
total area (2), including                     6             6                           0%
Wheat                                         2             2                           0%
Cotton                                        2             2                           0%
Maize                                         1              1                          0%.
Lucerne                                       1              1           -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                     (3,278)       (4,448)       (1,170)          36%
Cotton                                    (4,202)       (5,015)         (813)          19%
Maize                                     (3,150)       (5,640)       (2,490)          79%
Lucerne                                     (910)       (1,400)         (490)          54%
Total operating costs                    (35,282)      (49,397)      (14,116)          40%
Credit Requirements (3)                                               (7,058)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                      4,830         6,870         2,040           42%
Cotton (net of processing)                 7,875         9,910         2,035           26%
Maize                                      5,900         9,850         3,950           67%
Lucerne                                    3,000         4,500         1,500           50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                      3,104         4,844         1,740           56%
Cotton                                     7,347         9,791         2,445           33%
Maize                                      2,750         4,210         1,460           53%
Lucerne                                    2,090         3,100         1,010           48%
Total Gros margin                         15,291        21,945         6,655           44%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)              600           600            -              0%
Net income before taxes                   14,691        21,345         6,655           45%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                 600           600            -              0%
Net income after tax                      14,091        20,745         6,655           47%
Net income per person (6 members)          2,348         3,458         1,109           47%
Net income per ha                          2,348         3,458         1,109           47%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Osh, May 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the survey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Financial Rate of Return
Year             1             2             3          4-20
Investment Cost (a)                       (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                          (713)         (713)          (713)         (713)
Net Income per HH w/o project (c)         14,091        14,091        14,091        14,091
Net Income per HH with Project (c)        14,091        16,309        18,527        20,745
Incremental Net Benefit                      -           2,218         4,436         6,655
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)   -            887          1,775         2,662
Net Benefit Stream (WIP)                 (10,244)         174          1,061         1,949
FRR                                         14%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D
Table 8            94
Farm Model 4. Family Association in Osh (1) Financial - Amounts in Som
'M  j                        W    rcrMenitap                                increase
total area (2), including                       20             20            -              0%
Wheat                                            8              8            -              0%
Cotton                                           6              6            -              0%
Maize                                            4              4            -              0%
Lucerne                                          2              2            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3): 
Wheat                                        (3,278)        (4,448)       (1,170)          36%
Cotton                                       (4,202)       (5,015)         (813)           19%
Maize                                        (3,150)       (5,640)        (2,490)          79%
Lucerne                                       (910)        (1,400)         (490)           54%
Total operating costs                      (121,714)     (168,516)       (46,802)          38%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                  (23,401)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                         4,830         6,870          2,040           42%
Cotton (net of processing)                    7,875         9,910          2,035           26%
Maize                                         5,900         9,850          3,950           67%
Lucerne                                       3,000         4,500          1,500           50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                        12,416        19,376          6,960           56%
Cotton                                      22,040         29,373          7,334           33%
Maize                                        11,000        16,840          5,840           53%
Lucerne                                      4,180          6.200          2,020           48%
Total Gros margin                            49,636        71,789         22,1154          45%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)               2,000          2,000                           0%
Net income before taxes                     47,636         69,789         22,154           47%
Land Tax (c Som I 00 per ha)                 2,000          2,000            -              0%
Net income after tax                        45,636         67,789         22,154           49%
Net income per household (5 HHs)             11,409        16,947          5,538           49%
Net income per person (30 members)           1,521          2,260           738            49%
Net income per ha                            2,282          3,389          1,108           49%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Osh, May 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the survey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Financial Rate of Return
Year             1              2             3           4-20
Investment Cost (a)                          (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                             (713)         (713)          (713)         (713)
Net Income per HH w/o project (c)            11,409        11,409         11,409        11,409
Net Income per HH with Project (c)           11,409        13,255         15,101        16,947
Incremental Net Benefit                        -            1,846          3,692         5,538
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)                    738          1,477         2,215
Net Benefit Stream                          (10,244)           25           764          1,502
FRR                                            10%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



95
Annex D
Table 9
Calculation of Economic Prices for main inputs and outputs
Wheat   Maize    Sugar   Cotton       Urea   Super P otassium
Parity Price                                        Import  Import  Import   Export  Import  Import  Import
2005 World Price in 1990 price (1)  US$Ston           125       98      225    1,458      136       118       90
2005 World Price in 1997 price (2)    US$ 1 ton       161      125      289    1,869      163       141      108
Quality Adjustment                %                    10%      10%      10%       0%       0%       0%       0%
Insurance/freight                 US$ /ton             20       20       40       (30)      10       10       10
CIF in USS                        USS/ ton           164      132      300    1,839      173       151      118
CIF in Som (@ US$S=Som 17.5)      Som I ton         2,878    2,319    5,249   32,185    3,022    2,643    2,061
Handling at boarder (at 3%)       Som / ton            86       70      157      (966)     91        79       62
Marginofimporter(at5%)            Som/ton             144      116      262   (1,609)      151      132      103
Transportfrom Boarder to mill (3)  Som/ton            100      100      100      (100)     100      100      100
Economic Price at mill gate       Som I ton         3,208    2,604    5,769   29,510    3,364    2,954    2,326
Processing cost (4)               Som / ton                            4,000   (9,443)
Transport from producerto mill (5)  Som I ton        (100)    (100)    (100)     100      (100)    (100)    (100)
Bagging (1.5%)                    Som / ton           (48)     (39)      (87)
Economic Farm gate price          Som/ton           3,060    2,465    9,583   20,167    3,264    2,854    2,226
Financial Pnice                   Sam/ton           2,500    1,600    8,000   12,400    2,200    2,200    2,600
Conversion Factor                 Som/ton            122%     164%     120%     163%     148%      1300%   2 86%
(1) Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, a WB Quarteriy, November 1997. Average between 2005 and 2010
projected prices in 1990 constant dollars. See Table Al. For instance: wheat price is average between US$ 128.7 and 121.7 per ton.
(2) Conversion of 1990 prices into 1997 prices multiplying by the G-5 MUV indexes: 128.2 for agriculture and 119.8 for
fertilizers (base 100 in 1990). See Table A3
(3) Average of 100 km at Som 1 per ton/km (on major roads)
(4) @ Som 4,000 per ton of sugar. @ 32% of price for cotton
(5) Average of 50 km at Som 2 per ton/km (on rural roads)



96
Annex D
Table 10
Economic Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Wheat Barley, Maize)
Existing Technology           Potential Improved Technology
Unit      Quantity Unit Value    Value  Quantity Unit Value    Value' % increase
Winter wheat
Yield               ton            1.9    3,060    5,814        2.7    3,060     8,262        42%
By-product          ton             2        40       80         3        40       120        50%
Seed                kg            230         4      (920)     200       4.0      (800)       -13%
N fertilizers                                                  150      3.26      (490)
P fertilizers                                                  150      2.85      (428)
K fertilizers                                                  100      2.23      (223)
Pesticides                                                       2       100      (200)
Herbicides          kg               2      150      (300)       4       150      (600)      100%
Irrigation          m3           3400      0.100     (340)    3400     0.100      (340)        0%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha         1     1,200   (1,200)        1     1,200    (1,200)       0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha          1     1,500   (1,500)        1     1,800    (1,800)      20%
Transporation       ton/50km       1.9      100      (190)      2.7      100      (270)
Sub-total cash costs                               (4,450)                      (6,350)       43%
Labour Cost                        20        20      (400)      20        20      (400)
Gross Margin                                        1,044                        1,632        56%
Labour requirement  day/ha                             20                           20         0%
Barley
Yield               ton            1.5    2,500    3,750        2.2    2,500     5,500        47%
By-product          ton            1.2       40       48        1.2       40        48         0%
Seed                kg             170        4      (680)     160       4.0      (640)        -6%
N fertilizers                                                  150      3.26      (490)
P fertilizers                                                  100      2.85      (285)
K fertilizers                                                   50      2.23      (111)
Pesticides                                                        1      100      (100)
Herbicides          kg             1.5      150      (225)       2       150      (300)       33%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha         1     1,200   (1,200)        1    1,200    (1,200)        0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha          1     1,200   (1,200)        1    1,500    (1,500)       25%
Transporation       ton/50km       1.5      100      (150)      2.2      100      (220)
Sub-total cash costs                               (3,455)                      (4,846)       40%
Labour Cost                        20        20      (400)      20        20      (400)
Gross Margin                                          (57)                         302
Labour requirement  day/ha                             20                           20
Maize
Yield               ton            3.8    2,465    9,367        6.3    2,465    15,530        66%
By-product          ton              5       40      200        10        40       400       100%
Seed                kg              25        8      (200)      25        8.0     (200)        0%
N fertilizers                                                  300      3.26      (979)
P fertilizers                                                  200      2.85      (571)
K fertilizers                                                  100       2.23     (223)
Pesticides                                                        1      100      (100)
Herbicides          kg                                           4        70      (280)
Irrigation          m3            3500     0.100     (350)    3500     0.100      (350)        0%
Mechanized Cultivation Is/ha         1     1,500   (1,500)        1     1,500    (1,500)       0%
Mechanized Harvesting Is/ha          1    2,250   (2,250)         1    3,000    (3,000)       33%
Transporation       ton/50km       3.8      100      (380)      6.3      100      (630)
Sub-total cash costs                               (4,680)                      (7,833)       67%
Labour Cost                        40        20      (800)      40        20      (800)
Gross Margin                                        4,087                        7,298        79%
Labour requirement  day/ha                            40                            40
Retum per labour    som/day                           102                          1 182      79%
Basic assumptions:
1) Yields : Existing technology corresponds to average yield 1994-1996 in the country; Improved technology
is conservativey assumed to reach the average yields from 1989 to 1991 (see Table 1)
2) Source for input quantities and costs: specially commissioned farm management survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996,
by TACIS advisers. Survey on 12 different farms (unit costs have been updated in 1997).



97
Annex D
Table 11
Economic Crop Budgets for Selected Crops (Sugarbeet, Lucerne, Cotton)
Existing Technology          Potential Improved Technology
Unit      Quantity Unit Value    Value   Quantity Unit Value    Value % increase
Sugarbeet
Yield                ton           12.4                -        16.5
Processed main product ton         1.38     9,583   13,203      1.83    9.583   17,568       33%
By-product: pulp     ton           13.8       80    1.102       18.3       80    1,467       33%
Mollasses                          1.05      100       105      1.75      100      175
Off-farm processing                1.38     6,000   (8,267)     1.83    6,000  (11,000)
Seed                 kg              12       50      (600)      12       50.0    (600)        0%
N fertilizers                       120       3.3    (392)      200       3.3    (653)
P fertilizers                       75        2.9    (214)      100       2.9    (285)
K fertilizers                       20        2.2     (45)       50       2.2    (111)
Pesticides                                                        2        60     (120)
Herbicides           kg              2       110      (220)       2       110     (220)       0%
Irrigation           m3           5000     0.100      (500)    5000     0.100     (500)       0%
Mechanized Cultivation  Is/ha         1     1,200   (1,200)       1      1,200   (1,200)      0%
Mechanized Harvesting  Is/ha          1      150      (150)       1       225     (225)
Transporation        ton/50km      1.38      100      (138)     1.83      100     (183)
Sub-total cash costs                                (3,458)                      (4,098)      19%
Labour Cost                         20        20      (400)      20        20     (400)
Gross Margin                                         2,285                       3,712       62%
Labour requirement   day/ha                            20                           20        0%
Retum per labour     som/day                          114                          186       62%
Lucerne
Yield                ton              6      500    3,000         9       500    4,500        50%
Seed                 kg               5       40      (200)       5      50.0    (250)       25%
P fertilizers                                                    50       2.9    (143)
K fertilizers                                                    50       2.2    (111)
Irrigation           m3           5500      0.100     (550)    5500     0.100     (550)       0%
Mechanized Cultivation  Is/ha         1      300      (300)       1       300     (300)        0%
Mechanized Harvesting  Is/ha          1      600      (600)       1       900     (900)      50%
No transportation                  6.00       -        -        9.00               -
Sub-total cash costs                                (1,650)                      (2,254)     37%
Labour Cost                         50        20   (1,000)       50        20   (1,000)
Gross Margin                                          350                        1,246      256%
Labour requirement   day/ha                            50                           50
Return per labour    som/day                            7                           25      256%
Cotton
Yield                ton            2.2                         2.64                         20%
Processed product    ton           0.69    20,167   13,865      0.83    20,167   16,638
By-product           ton            1.4    1,200    1,650        1.7    1,200    1,980
Off-farm processing                                 (3,450)                      (3,450)
Seed                 kg             135       3.6    (486)      120       3.6    (432)
N fertilizers        kg            500        3.3   (1,632)     400       3.3   (1,306)
P fertilizers        kg             125       2.9    (357)      200       2.9    (571)
K fertilizers        kg             20        2.2     (45)      100       2.2    (223)
Farmyard manure      ton            0.9      300      (270)      0.9      300     (270)
Pesticides                           4       130      (520)       5       130     (650)
Herbicides           kg                                           6        70     (420)
Irrigation           m3           9000      0.100     (900)    9000     0.100     (900)
Mechanized Cultivation  Is/ha         1     1,875   (1,875)        1    2,100   (2,100)
Transporation        ton/50km      0.69      100       (69)     0.83      100       (83)
Sub-total cash costs                                (6,153)                      (6,953)      13%
Labour Cost                        170        20   (3.400)      180        20   (3,600)
Gross Margin                                         2,512                        4,614       84%
Labour requirement   day/ha                           170                          180
Return per labour  _  somday                            15                          26        73%
Basic assumptions:
1) Yields: Existing technology corresponds to average yield 1994-1996 in the country; Improved technology
is conservativey assumed to reach the average yields from 1989 to 1991 (see Table 1)
2) Source for input quantities and costs: specially commissioned farm management survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996,
by TACIS advisers. Survey on 12 different farms (unit costs have been updated in 1997).



Annex D            98
Table 12
Farm Model 1. Individual Household in Kara-Balta (1) - Economic - Amounts in Som
W/o project    With project    Incremental   % increase
total area (2), including                         10             10            -              0%
Wheat                                              4              4            -              0%
Barley                                             2              2            -              0%
Maize                                              1              1            -              0%
Sugarbeet                                          1              1            -              0%
Luceme                                             2              2            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                          (4,450)        (6,350)       (1,900)          43%
Barley                                        (3,455)        (4,846)        (1,391)          40%
Maize                                         (4,680)        (7,833)        (3,153)          67%
Sugarbeet                                     (3,458)        (4,098)         (640)           19%
Lucerne                                        (1,650)       (2,254)         (604)           37%
Total operating costs                        (36,148)       (51,532)       (15,384)          43%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                     (7,692)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                           5,894         8,382          2,488           42%
Barley                                         3,798          5,548          1,750           46%
Maize                                          9,567         15,930          6,363           67%
Sugarbeet (net of processing)                  6,143          8,210          2,066           34%
Lucerne                                        3,000          4,500          1,500           50%
Gross Margin (for the farm)
Wheat                                          5,777          8,128          2,351           41%
Barley                                           686          1,403           717           105%
Maize                                          4,887          8,098          3,210           66%
Sugarbeet                                      2,685          4,112          1,427           53%
Lucerne                                        2,700          4,492          1,792           66%
Total Gros margin                             16,735         26,233          9,498           57%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)                 1,500          1,600            -              0%
Net income before taxes                       15,235         24,733          9,498           62%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                                                    -              0%
Net income after tax                          15,236         24,733          9,498           62%
Net income per person (6 members)              2,539          4,122          1,583           62%
Net Income per ha                              1,524          2,473           950            62%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the suivey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Year             1              2             3           4-20
Investment Cost (a)                            (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                               (713)         (713)          (713)         (713)
Net Income w/o project (c)                    15,235         15,235         15,235        15,235
Net Income with Project (c)                   15,235         18,401         21,567        24,733
Incremental Net Benefit                          -            3,166          6,332         9,498
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)                    1,266          2,533         3,799
Economic Stream                              (10,244)           553          1,819         3,086
Economic Rate of Return                          23%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D            99
Table 13
Farm Model 2. Peasant farm in Kara-Balta (1) - Economic - Amounts in Som
W/o project   With project   Incremental    % increase
total area (2), including                          47             47            -              0%
Wheat                                              20             20            -              0%
Barley                                             16             16            -              0%
Maize                                               2              2            -              0%
Sugarbeet                                           3              3            -              0%
Lucerne                                             6              6            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                           (4,450)        (6,350)       (1,900)          43%
Bariey                                          (3,455)       (4,846)        (1,391)          40%
Maize                                           (4,680)       (7,833)        (3,153)          67%
Sugarbeet                                       (3,458)        (4,098)        (640)           19%
Lucerne                                         (1,650)       (2,254)         (604)           37%
Total operating costs                        (173,914)      (246,027)       (72,113)          41%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                     (36,057)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                            5,894         8,382          2,488           42%
Barley                                          3,798          5,548          1,750           46%
Maize                                            9,567        15,930          6,363           67%
Sugarbeet (net of processing)                    6,143         8,210          2,066           34%
Lucerne                                         3,000          4,500          1,500           50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                           28,883        40,640         11,757           41%
Barley                                           5,488        11,228          5,740          105%
Maize                                           9,775         16,195          6,420           66%
Sugarbeet                                        8,056        12,336          4,280           53%
Lucerne                                          8,100        13,476          5,376           66%
Total Gros margin                               60,302        93,875         33,573           56%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)                   7,050         7,050            -              0%
Net income before taxes                         53,252        86,825         33,573           63%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                                                                    0%
Net income after tax                            S3,252        86,825         33,573           63%
Net income per household (5 HHs)               10,650         17,365          6,715           63%
Net income per person (30 members)               1,775         2,894          1,119           63%
Net income per ha                                1,133         1,847           714            63%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Kara-Balta, June 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the survey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Year             1              2             3           4-20
Investment Cost (a)                             (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                                (713)          (713)         (713)          (713)
Net Income per HH w/o project (c)              10,650         10,650         10,650        10,650
Net Income per HH with Project (c)              10,650        12,889         15,127        17,365
Incremental Net Benefit                           -            2,238          4,476         6,715
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)                       895          1,791         2,686
Economic Stream                               (10,244)           182          1,077         1.973
Economic Rate of Return                           15%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation ..ould bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D
Table 14         100
Table 7: Farm Model 3. Individual Household in Osh (1) - Economic - Amounts in Som
W/o p!oject    With project   Incremental   % increase
total area (2), including                         6         p         I                     0%
Wheat                                             2             2                           0%
Cotton                                            2             2                           0%
Maize                                             1             1            -              0%
Lucerne                                           1             1            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                        (4,450)       (6,350)        (1,900)          43%
Cotton                                       (6,153)       (6,953)          (800)          13%
Maize                                        (4,680)       (7,833)        (3,153)          67%
Lucerne                                      (1,650)       (2,254)          (604)          37%
Total operating costs                       (L-,016)     (69,927)       (19,911)          40%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                   (9,956)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                         5,894         8.382          2,488           42%
Cotton (net of processing)                   12,065        15,168          3,103           26%
Maize                                         9,567        15,930          6,363           67%
Lucerne                                       3,000         4,500          1,500           50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                         2,888         4,064          1,176           41 'Xo
Cotton                                       11,824        16,429          4,605           39%
Maize                                         4,887         8,098          3,210           66%
Lucerne                                       1,350         2,246           896            66%
Total Gros margin                            20,950        30,837          9,887           47%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)                  900           900            -              0%
Net income before taxes                      20,050        29,937          9,887           49%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                                                  -              0%
Net income after tax                         20,050        29,937          9,887           49%
Net income per person (6 members)             3,342         4,989          1,648           49%
Net income per ha                             3,342         4,989          1,648           49%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Osn, May 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Syntresis of individual farms interviewed during the  iurvey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Year             1             2              3          4-20
Investment Cost (a)                          (9,531)
RecurrentCost(b)                                (713)         (713)         (713)          (713)
Net Income per HH w/o project (c)            20,050        20,050         20,050        20,050
Net Income per HH with Project (c)           20,050        23,345         26,641        29,937
Incremental Net Benefit                         -           3,296          6,591         9,887
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)                  1,318          2,637         3.955
Economic Stream                             (10,244)          605          1,923         3,241
Economic Rate of Return                        24%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



Annex D
Table 15         101
Table 8: Farm Model 4. Family Association in Osh (1) - Economic - Amounts in Som
W/o project    With project   Incremental   % increase
total area (2), including                       20             20                           0%
Wheat                                            8              8            -              0%
Cotton                                           6              6            -              0%
Maize                                            4              4            -              0%
Lucerne                                          2              2            -              0%
Operating costs per ha (3):
Wheat                                        (4,450)        (6,350)       (1,900)          43%
Cotton                                       (6,153)       (6,953)         (800)           13%
Maize                                       (4,680)        (7,833)        (3,153)          67%
Lucerne                                      (1,650)       (2,254)          (604)          37%
Total operating costs                     (172,903)      (238,643)       (65,739)          38%
Credit Requirements (3)                                                  (32,870)
Income per ha (4)
Wheat                                         5 894         8,382          2,488           42%
Cotton (net of processing)                   12,065        15,168          3,103           26%
Maize                                        9,567         15,930          6,363           67%
Lucerne                                      3,000          4,500          1,500           50%
Gross Margin
Wheat                                        11,553        16,256          4,703           41%
Cotton                                      35,472         49,287         13,815           39%
Maize                                        19,550        32,391         12,841           66%
Lucerne                                      2,700          4,492          1,792           66%
Total Gros margin                            69,275       102,425         33,151           48%
Fixed Costs (@ Som 100 per ha)               3,000          3,000                           0%
Net income before taxes                     66,275         99,425         33,151           50%
Land Tax (@ Som 100 per ha)                      _                                          0%
Net Income after tax                        66,275         99,425         33,151           50%
Net income per household (5 HHs)            13,255         19,885          6,630           50%
Net income per person (30 members)            2,209         3,314          1,105           50%
Net income per ha                            3,314          4,971          1,658           50%
(1) Source: Specially commissioned farm survey in Osh May 1996 by TACIS advisers
(2) Synthesis of individual farms interviewed during the s irvey
(3) Assumed to be 50% of incremental input requirements, the remaining 50% being financed by savings
(4) Source: Tables 3 and 4
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Year             1              2             3           4-20
Investment Cost (a)                          (9,531)
Recurrent Cost (b)                             (713)         (713)          (713)          (713)
Net Income per HH w/o project (c)            13,255        13,255         13,255        13,255
Net Income per HH with Project (c)          13,255         15,465         17,675        19,885
Incremental Net Benefit                        -            2,210          4,420         6,630
Incremental Net Benefit due to Project (d)      -             884          1,768         2,652
Economic Stream                            (10,244)           171          1,055         1,939
Economic Rate of Return                        14%
(a) Total Investment Cost of the project (US$ 18.8 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(b) Annual Recurrent Cost of the project (US$ 1.41 million) divided by the number of households (33,605)
(c) See Table Above
(d) Only 40% arre attributed to the project. the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits,
and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.



102
Annex D3
Table 16
Economic Analysis: Base Scenario and Switching value 1 Plow coverage rate)
PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5       PY6       PY7      PY8       PYg      PY',  PY11-20
Project Economic Costs
Investment costs (1) (US$'000)                       7,590     6,690     3160      1,620      810
Recurrent Costs (1) (US$000)                         1,350     1,540     1,540     1,490    1,410     1,410     1,410    1,410     1,410     1410     1,410
Sub-total Economic Costs                             8,940     8,230     4,700     3,110    2,220     1,410     1,410    1,410     1,410     1,410    1,410
Base Scenario: Expected participation and adoption rates (2)
Number of participating HHs (3)                               11.202    22,403   33,605    33.605    33,605   33,605    33,605    33,605    33,605    33605
Net Economic Benefit per HH (Som) (4)                8,182
Net Economic Benefit per HH (US$)                     468
Net Benefit per HH attributed to project (US$) (5)    187
Sub-total Economic Benefits                            -       2,095     4,190     6,285    6,285     6,285     6,285    6,285     6,285     6,285    6,285
NET ECONOMIC FLOW BASE SCENARIO                     (8,940)    (6,135)    (510)    3,175    4,065     4,875     4,875    4,875    4,875      4,875    4,875
Net Present Value (12%)                              9,929
Economic Rate of Return (20 years)                     20  l
Switching Value 1: Reduced Participating Rate (6)
Number of participating HHs (4)                                8,103    16,207    24,310   24,310    24,310    24,310    24,310    24.310    24,310    24,310
Net Economic Benefit per HH (US$) (5)                 468
Net Benefit per HH attributed to project (US$) (6)    187
Sub-total Economic Benefits                            -       1,516     3,031    4,547     4,547     4,547     4,547    4,547     4,547     4,547    4,547
NET ECONOMIC FLOW SWITCHING VALUE 1                 (8,940)    (6,714)   (1,669)    1,437   2,327     3,137     3,137    3,137     3,137     3,137    3,137
Net Present Value (12%)                               (168)
IEconomic Rate of Return (20 years)                    12%
(1) Source: COSTAB in constant terms (w/o price contingencies) including physical contingencies. Individual farm models in tables 5-8 and 12-15 are based on the total investment
cost of US$18.8 million (including physical contingencies) and annual recurring cost of US$1.41 million. ERR of the project as a whole is based on a slightly higher investment cost
at US$19.87 million (induding physical contingencies), and recurring costs of US$1.35 million in projectyear 1 and US$1.54 million from project year2 onwards mainly to include
the cost of issuance of land certificates added during negotiations. This increase in the investment/recurring costs will only marginally reduce FRRsIERRs for individual
farm models.
(2) Percentages are derived from conservative estimates of the coverage of existing services evaluated between 47% and 70% (see IFAD pre-appraisal report),
Key parameters are the following:
i) Number of Farming Households at full development (3)       143,000  (estimates of the MAWR: see I FAD pre-appraisal report)
ii) Coverage Rate et full development                            47%
iii) Adoption Rate of Proposed Technologies                      50%
iv) Combined Participating Rate [ii) x iii)]                     24%
v) Incremental Number of beneficiaries at full dvt |i) x iv)]  33,605
(3) Progressively phased in to reach in 4 years the previously estimated participattng number of households
(4) Average economic benefits per HH of the four economic farm models (obtained by replacing financial prices by economic prices). Available on file.
(5) About 40% of previous: the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits (10% of yield increases in addition to the main benefit of that project which is to stop any further
deterioration of the scheme) and the Rural finance project the remaining 40%.
(6) Assuming a reduced coverage rate or a reduced adoption rate of proposed technologies resulting in a reduced participation rate;
Key parameters are the following:
i) Number of Farming Households at full development           143,000
ii) Coverage Rate et full development                            34%
iii) Adoption Rate of Proposed Technologies                      50%
iv) Combined Participating Rate [ii) x iii)J                     17%
v) Incremental Number of beneficiaries at full dvt [i) x iv)]  24,310



103
Annex D
Table 17
Economic Analysis: Base Scenario and Switching value 2 and 3: reduced benefits and Increased costs
PYl       PY2      PY3       PY4       PY5      PYW      PY7       PY8      PY       P PY10  PY11-20
Project Economic Costs
Investment costs (1) (US$'000)                      7,590     6,690    3,160     1,620      810
RecurrentCosts(1)(US$'000)                          1,350      1,540    1,540    1,490     1,410    1,410    1,410    1,410    1,410      1,410     1,410
Sub-total Economic Costs                            8,940     8,230    4,700    3,110    2,220      1,410    1,410    1,410    1,410    1,410    1,410
Switching Value 2: Reduced Benefits (2)
Number of participating HHs (3)                              11,202   22,403   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605
Net Economic Benefit per HH (Som) (4)               5,957
Net Economic Benefit per HH (US$)                     340
Net Benefit per HH attributed to project (US$) (5)    136
Sub-total Economic Benefits                           -        1,525    3,050    4,575    4,575    4,575    4,575    4,575    4,575    4,575    4,575
NET ECONOMIC FLOW SWITCHING VALUE 2                (8,940)    (6,705)   (1,650)    1,465    2,355    3,165    3,165    3,165    3,165    3,165    3,165
Net Present Value (12%)                                 0
Economic Rate of Return (20 years)                    12°
Switching Value 3: Higher costs than expected (6)
Inflated Investment costs                          10,426     9,190    4,341     2,225     1,113
Intlated RecurrentCosts                             1,854     2,115    2,115    2,047    1,937      1,937    1,937     1,937     1,937    1,937     1,937
Sub-total Inflated Economic Costs                  12,280    11,305    6,456    4,272    3,050    1,937    1,937    1,937    1,937        1,937    1,937
Number of participating HHs (3)                              11,202   22,403   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605   33,605
Net Economic Benefit per HH (US$) (4)                468
Net Benefit per HH attributed to project (US$)       187
Sub-total Economic Benefits                           -       2,095    4,190    6,285    6,285    6,285    6,285    6,285    6,285    6,285    6,285
NET ECONOMIC FLOW SWITCHING VALUE 3               (12,280)    (9,210)   (2.266)   2,013    3,236    4,348    4,348    4,348    4,348    4,348    4,348
Net Present Value (12%)                                (0) 
Economic Rate of Return (20 years)                   12%1
(1) Source: COSTAB in constant terms (w/o prce contingencies) including physical contingencies. All investment costs included. Recurrent expenses continue after PY6
(2) Assuming lower increases in farm incomes than expected. Key assumptions are the following:
i) NumberofFarming Households at full development (3)        143,000  (estimates of the MAWR: see IFAD pre-appraisal report)
II) Coverage Rate et full development                           47%
iii) Adtoption Rate of Proposed Technologies                    50%
iv) Combined Participating Rate [ii) x iii)]                    24%
v) Incremental Number of beneficiaries at full dvt [i) x iv)J  33,605
vi) Lower Farm Benefits than Expected by (2):                   27%
(3) Progressively phased in to reach in 4 years the previously estimated participating number of households
(4) Average economic benefits per HH of the four economic farm models (obtained by replacing financial prices by economic prices). Available on file.
(5) About 40% of previous: the irrigation would bring 20% of benefits (10% of yield increases in addition to the main benefit of that project which is to stop any further
deterioration of the scneme) and the Rurai finance project the remaining 40%.
(6) Assuming unexpected increases in project investment and recurrent costs. Key assUmptions are the following:
i) Number ot Farming Housenolds at full development          143.000
ii) Coverage Rate et full development                           47%
iii) Adoption Rate of Proposed Technologies                     50%
iv) Combined Participating Rate [ii) x iii)J                    24%
v) Incremental Number of beneficiaries at full dvt [i) x iv)3  33.605
vi) Higher Costs than expected by                               37%



IBRD 28979
705                                                                                                     75~                                                                                                      ED 
K A Z A K H S T A N 
K   ~T A2omv                                     r  A A    K  S   T> Ao Nlo 
T. ~ ~    ~ ~ .
\\-}giv     .                                                                                                                                                                                        p   ,x '"'" '<;<,<, oTxogw _-
0 titi t : 0  r00;;;fjil-  005Q^;00VIT   Sii      ^) C;;;|;.;{: .AGRICULTURAL  SUPPORT  SERVICES  PROJECT
ToDusbenbe  TAJIKISTAN   os8 =    g   - tE_;;                                           X                                                                    PR ECTCOMPONEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POJET OMONNT
70~~~~~~~~   ' ' oXDsabei;" g3T Mw                                                                                                                                              A     CROP PROTECT ON/SEED DEVELOPMENT
gX / ei KAZAKHSTAN , RUSSIAo . X MARKET \NFORMATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                MRRT IPOMAIO
K A C A K H S T A N                                                                                                                                                     LA N D  A N D  A O R A R A N   REAPAR MI
H'                                                                                                                                      R,<iiMNo ILOMEIESITOTER RAS
N.-   -w 6         t       ' B  -D    I,RE:'o                                                                                     2              S O             ID0                                              OTHER ROADS
ISAI                                                                                                                                                                                               R   8Jk/~L    OBLAST CAPITALS
ISLAMLIC   T._.             -\'                                  Pp4         INA Tso&Mdced ~mF<G   erMu                                                                                                 i    NATIONAL CAPITAL
ROHI   IRA "5                                  CIN              P~, xxso,,,on i,omodo,yoA,SAoFl, z epao,,b o,                                      En  -  OBDAST BOUNDARIES
AFGHANISTAN                                        C,. "R '0'"" en seeorc pbcotcsb~drsn   -l                                                                                                  -  INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
U Z BE            I S        



