Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3062 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Support Services Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3062 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1998, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development  (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,900,000) to assist in 
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ACSPP” means the Agency of Chemical Supply and Plant Protection of the 
Borrower;
(b)
“CRI” means the Crop Research Institute established within the Borrower’s 
Agricultural Academy; 
(c)
“FPRI” means the Forage and Pasture Research Institute established within  
the Borrower’s Agricultural Academy; 
(d)
“MAWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources; 
(e)
“NMC” means the National Management Committee established by the 
Borrower’s Government to coordinate activities concerning the establishment and 
operation of the agricultural market information system referred to in Part E of the 
Project; 
(f)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established by the 
Borrower’s MAWR;
(g)
“PIU Advisor” means a consulting firm, satisfactory to the Association, 
selected for the purpose of advising the PIU on the implementation of the Project; 
(h)
“PIU Advisory Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into by the 
Borrower and the selected consulting firm pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 26, 1997 and September 9, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
“PSC” means the inter-agency Project Steering Committee to be established 
and maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(l)
“SALMLR” means the State Agency for Land Management and Land Resources of 
the Borrower;
(m)
“Seed Law” means the Law on Seeds of the Kyrgyz Republic, No. 38, dated 
June 19, 1997;
(n)
“SIPQ” means the State Inspectorate of Plant Quarantine of the Borrower;
(o)
“Som” means the currency of the Borrower; and 
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2008 and ending January 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2018, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
Page  4
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MAWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the carrying out of the Project.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
subject to subparagraph (b) to this paragraph:
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IFAD 
Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the IFAD Loan 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the IFAD Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Page  6
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the PIU Advisory Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the PIU Advisor; 
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account in a commercial bank and made 
an initial deposit of an amount in Som equivalent to $25,000 into such account; and
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors, acceptable to the 
Association, for purposes of Section 4.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:  
245156 NUR KH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  7
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
450,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2)
Goods
     6,110,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
(3)
Consultants’
     1,340,000
100%
 
Services and Training
(4)
Operating Costs
     1,780,000
100% until June 30,
1999; 85% until
June 30, 2000; 65% until
June 30, 2001; 45% until
June 30, 2002; and
20% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
390,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     1,030,000
          TOTAL
    11,100,000
    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental costs incurred on account of 
the Project relating to vehicle and equipment maintenance and operation, office 
supplies, utilities, salaries and allowances for local staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: (a) goods and works 
under contracts costing less that $200,000 equivalent each; (b) individual training 
activities costing less than $5,000 equivalent each; (c) operating costs; and (d) 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for consulting 
firms, and less than $25,000 equivalent each for individual consultants, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the incentive framework for, and 
productivity, profitability, and sustainability of, the Kyrgyz agriculture, by means 
of assisting the Borrower in: (a) implementing land and agrarian reforms and providing 
support for farm restructuring; (b) providing emerging private farms with advisory and 
development services, and training in technology adaptation and use of improved 
production practices; (c) developing the seed industry; (d) establishing the legal 
framework, organizations and procedures for plant protection and plant quarantine 
services; (e) establishing an agricultural market information system; and (f) 
enhancing the institutional capacity of MAWR.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Land and Agrarian Reform, and Support for Farm Restructuring
(i) 
Completion of the Borrower’s program of distribution of land and non-land 
assets; (ii) establishment of policies and procedures for land auctions; (iii) 
enhancement of the institutional capacity of governmental agencies, and of farming 
communities, to support agricultural enterprise restructuring; and (iv) establishment 
of a legal and regulatory framework for land market development, through provision of 
technical assistance, training, goods and operating costs.
Part B:
Rural Advisory and Development Services
(i) 
Establishment of rural advisory and development centers at oblast, rayon 
and village levels and a national secretariat in Bishkek; (ii) implementation of a 
program of field trials and demonstrations, and of an adaptive research program; (iii) 
training and extension activities for farmers and farmer groups; and (iv) 
implementation of a small farmer credit program.
Part C:
Seed Industry Development
(i) 
Acquisition and selection of plant varieties, including international 
finished  germplasm for cereals and forage; (ii) strengthening of MAWR’s regulatory 
services for variety testing, variety registration and seed certification; (iii) 
establishment of a legal framework, and procedures, for the protection of plant 
breeder rights; (iv) implementation of a program of seed production on pilot farms; 
(v) rehabilitation of cereal and forage seed production, cleaning and storage 
facilities; and (vi) publication and dissemination of official variety testing results 
and seed industry information, through provision of technical assistance, training, 
Page  9
goods and operating costs and rehabilitation of selected facilities for cereal and 
forage seed production processing and storage.
Part D:
Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine
(i) 
Establishment of regulatory services for plant protection and pesticide 
use; (ii) construction and rehabilitation of pilot plant quarantine facilities; (iii) 
strengthening of plant quarantine services and review of quarantine procedures and 
regulations; (iv) establishment of a pesticide registration system and of regulations 
and procedures on the safe distribution and use of pesticides, and monitoring of 
pesticides utilization and residue contents; and (v) support for the Borrower’s 
membership in plant protection organizations through provision of technical 
assistance, training, operating costs and goods and rehabilitation of selected 
quarantine facilities.
Part E:
Agricultural Market Information
Establishment of an agricultural market information system through provision of 
technical assistance, training and goods.
Part F:
Enhancement of the Institutional Capacity of MAWR
Provision of technical assistance and training for Project management including 
audit costs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this part B: 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $124,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B of this Schedule; (ii) each contract awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the 
first three contracts (each one from a different oblast) awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I, Part C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Schedule, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
Page  11
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for financial management, accounting and 
auditing under Part F of the Project, estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for seed development and crop protection under Parts C and D of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $133,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for agricultural market information under Part E of the Project, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $59,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  12
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAWR with participation of: (a) 
SALMLR in respect of Part A of the Project; (b) CRI, FPRI and selected seed farms 
acceptable to the Association in respect of Part C of the Project; (c) SIPQ and ACSPP 
in respect of Part D of the Project; and (d) NMC in respect of Part E of the Project. 
2.
By August 31, 1998, the Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until 
completion of the Project, with composition and under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association, the PSC and assign to it responsibility to provide oversight and 
coordination for Project implementation and approve annual work programs and budgets.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain NMC until completion of the Project with composition 
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall cause the PIU Advisor to assist the Borrower in carrying out 
the Project execution activities in accordance with the PIU Advisory Agreement. 
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that, throughout the execution of the Project, the PIU 
shall be maintained with a sufficient number of qualified staff, adequate facilities 
and resources (including adequate financial management and auditing systems), as 
satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PIU Advisory Agreement in such 
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PIU Advisory 
Agreement or any provisions thereof.
7.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Account during the execution of the 
Project and deposit, semiannually, an amount in Som acceptable to the Association into 
such account.
8.
The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1998, issue policy guidelines, 
satisfactory to the Association, to implement the compulsory seed certification 
requirements under the Seed Law; and (ii) by December 31, 2000, submit to the 
Borrower’s Parliament a draft amendment, satisfactory to the Association, relating to 
the seed certification requirements under the Seed Law.
9.
By December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall establish a national seed association, 
with a charter and by-laws acceptable to the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1998, submit to the Borrower’s Parliament a 
draft law, satisfactory to the Association, on the protection of plant breeders’ 
rights.
11.
The Borrower shall: (i) by August 31, 1998, submit to the Borrower’s Parliament 
a draft law, satisfactory to the Association, on pesticides and pest control; and (ii) 
by June 30, 1999, issue a manual on pesticide management and application, crop 
protection and plant quarantine, acceptable to the Association.
12.
The Borrower shall: (i) throughout the execution of the Project, ensure that the 
rural advisory and development centers, established under Part B of the Project, 
advise farmers and farmer groups on pesticide use only when such use is justified 
under an integrated pest management approach; (ii) submit to the Association, by 
Page  13
December 31 of each year, reports on the compliance by the rural advisory and 
development centers with this obligation; and (iii) take into consideration the 
Association’s comments on these reports, including ways to improve compliance with 
this obligation.
13.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1998, submit to the Association, for its review, 
feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of plant quarantine centers in Bishkek and 
Osh; and
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said feasibility studies taking into 
consideration the Association’s comments thereon.
14.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1999, submit to the Association, for its review, a plan 
for the consolidation of existing quarantine laboratories and centers at the rayon 
level; 
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said plan taking into consideration the 
Association’s comments thereon; and
(c)
carry out such plan in accordance with its terms.
15.
The Borrower shall ensure that the CRI and the FPRI shall: (i) by March 31 of 
each year, or such other date as may be agreed upon with the Association, submit to 
the Association, for its review, their annual seed breeding programs; (ii) immediately 
thereafter, finalize said programs taking into consideration the Association’s 
comments thereon; and (iii) carry out such programs in accordance with their terms.
16.
The Borrower shall ensure that seed production enterprises, selected in 
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association, shall: (i) by September 30 of 
each year, submit to the Association, for its review, feasibility studies with 
recommendations (including those on cost recovery, as acceptable to the Association) 
for the production of seeds to be financed under the Credit; (ii) immediately 
thereafter, finalize said recommendations taking into consideration the Association’s 
comments thereon; and (iii) carry out such recommendations in accordance with their 
terms.
17.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  15
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
