                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000840



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-30620; COFN-04210)



                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.1 MILLION
                          (US$ 14.98 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                  KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                          FOR AN

                   AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT



                                      December 15, 2008




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2008)

                      Currency Unit = Kyrgyz Som
                        Som 1.00 = US$0.0254
                          US$1.00 = Som 39.4

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB             Asian Development Bank
AISP            Agricultural Investments and Services Project
Aiyl Okmotu     Rural Municipality Administration
APIU            Agricultural Projects Implementation Unit
ARAS            Association of Rural Advisory Services
ARIS            Community Development and Investment Agency
ASSP            Agricultural Services Support Project
ATC             Advisory Training Center (later: TAIC)
CIMMYT          International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CLAR            Center for Land and Agrarian Reform (oblast/raion level)
CRI             Crop Research Institute
CSF             Community Seed Fund
DCCP            Department of Chemicalization and Crop Protection
DFID            Department for International Development (UK)
EPPO            European Plant Protection Organization
FFS             Farmer Field School
FPRI            Forage and Pasture Research Institute (later: LVPRI)
FMS             Financial Management System
FY              Fiscal Year
GOK             Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
GTZ             Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
HPAI            Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICARDA          International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM             Integrated Production Management (formerly Integrated Pest
                Management)
ISF             International Seed Federation
KAFC            Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
KAMIS           Kyrgyz Agricultural Market Information Service
KSBA            Kyrgyz Sheep Breeders Association
TAIC            Technology, Advisory and Information Center (formerly ATC)
LRF             Land Redistribution Fund
LSG             Local Self-Government
LVPRI           Livestock, Veterinary and Pasture Research Institute
MAWR            Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (later: MAWRPI)
MAWRPI   Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NPOZ     Industrial Association for Crop Research
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
RAS      Rural Advisory Service
RADC     Rural Advisory and Development Center
RADS     Rural Advisory and Development Services
RADSF    Rural Advisory and Development Services Foundation
RASCO    Rural Advisory Services Coordination Office
RSSI     Republican State Seed Inspectorate
SAK      Seed Association of Kyrgyzstan
SALMLR   State Agency for Land Management and Land Resources
SCVT     State Commission for Variety Testing
SDC      Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
SIPQ     State Inspectorate of Plant Quarantine
SVD      State Veterinary Department
TA       Technical Assistance
TACIS    Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
         (European Union)



               Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director: Mehrnaz Teymourian (acting)
              Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
         Project Team Leader: Brian Bedard
            ICR Team Leader: Brian Bedard
                                                    KYRGYZ RPUBLIC

                                      Agricultural Support Services Project


                                                          CONTENTS

 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 48
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 49
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
  Map
A. Basic Information
                                                                      Agricultural Support Services
Country:                Kyrgyz Republic      Project Name:
                                                                      Project (ASSP)
                                                                      IDA-30620,
Project ID:             P040721              L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      COFN-04210
ICR Date:               11/18/2008           ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                      GOVT. OF KYRGYZ
Lending Instrument:     SIL                  Borrower:
                                                                      REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 11.1M            Disbursed Amount:        XDR 9.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry (MAWRPI)
Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
   (a) Cofinancier:
   International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
   (b) Other External Partners:
        Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), parallel financing for the RAS component
        DFID (UK), technical assistance for LAR and RAS components
        TACIS (EU), technical assistance for Seeds and Market Information components
        SIDA (Sweden), technical assistance for Seeds component
        UNDP, technical assistance for micro-credit group formation
        FAO, technical assistance for IPM in the RAS and CP&PQ components

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         04/26/1994     Effectiveness:             09/21/1998          09/21/1998
                                                                                      12/07/2001
Appraisal:              06/02/1997     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                      12/15/2003
Approval:               05/07/1998     Mid-term Review:                               03/14/2001
                                       Closing:                   12/31/2003          06/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                            Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                                   Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                                   Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                      Rating
      Performance                                      any)
Potential Problem Project at                             Quality at Entry
                             No                                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory
any time (Yes/No):                                       (QEA):
Problem Project at any time                              Quality of Supervision
                            Yes                                                 Satisfactory
(Yes/No):                                                (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                            Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                          54                        54
Agricultural marketing and trade                                              8                         8
Central government administration                                            38                        38


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                                           Primary
Personal and property rights                                                Secondary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                              At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                Shigeo Katsu                            Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:              Mehrnaz Teymourian (acting)             Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                Dina Umali-Deininger.                   Joseph Goldberg
Project Team Leader:           Brian Bedard                            Mohinder Mudahar
ICR Team Leader:               Brian G. Bedard
ICR Primary Author:            Gotz Schreiber
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to improve the incentive framework for, and the productivity,
profitability and sustainability of, Kyrgyz agriculture by assisting the Borrower in: (a)
implementing land and agrarian reforms and providing support for farm restructuring; (b)
providing emerging private farms with advisory and development services and training in
appropriate improved production technology and practices; (c) promoting the development of a
viable seed industry; (d) establishing the legal framework, institutions and procedures for plant
protection and plant quarantine services; (e) establishing an agricultural market information
system; and (f) enhancing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAWRPI).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Additional objective, added in March 2004: "Improving and securing the sustainability of river
flood protection along the Kugart river." This reflected the addition of the flood repair
component.

Additional objective, added in January 2007: "Minimize the threat posed to humans and to the
poultry industry by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), and in preparing for, the control
and response to HPAI and other infectious diseases."

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                   Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                     approval                         Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                   documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Number of rural households having received land shares (cumulative)
Value                                          No target           No revised
(quantitative or No baseline data established established at       targets         532,000
qualitative)                                   appraisal           established
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                          12/31/2006
Comments
                 Almost all rural households have received a land share, and 91% of all available arable
(incl. %
                 land has been distributed to private owners
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Villages covered by Rural Advisory Service (annual)
Value                                          No target           No revised
(quantitative or 0                             established at      targets         978
qualitative)                                   appraisal           established
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                          12/31/2007
Comments
                 The number of villages/settlements regularly covered by RAS is about 52% of the
(incl. %
                 country total
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Households receiving direct RAS advice (annual)
Value                                          No target           No revised
(quantitative or 0                             established at      targets         42,933
qualitative)                                   appraisal           established
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %           More than 21% of all farms are regularly reached
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Social Collateral Credit Groups receiving microcredit from FDF (cumulative)
Value                                           No target           No revised
(quantitative or   0                            established at      targets         4,574
qualitative)                                    appraisal           established
Date achieved      12/31/1998                                                       12/31/2007
Comments
                   More than 33,000 individual poor households, otherwise not creditworthy, have
(incl. %
                   received credit based on social collateral
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                         Revised Target
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                     Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Groups formed and supported by RAS (aggregate)
Value                                        No target          No revised
(quantitative      No baseline established   established at     targets        2,197
or Qualitative)                              appraisal          established
Date achieved      12/31/1998                                                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %           The number of groups peaked at 2,853 in 2006.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                              Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                            IP
           Archived                                                                 (USD millions)
   1      06/29/1998             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
   2      09/10/1998             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
   3      03/30/1999             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.73
   4      12/17/1999             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    1.22
   5      12/22/1999             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    1.22
   6      12/28/1999             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    1.22
   7      06/26/2000             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    1.90
   8      06/30/2000             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    1.90
   9      09/22/2000             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    2.39
  10      12/15/2000             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.75
  11      05/24/2001             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.94
  12      12/27/2001             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.54
  13      01/14/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.57
  14      06/19/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.00
  15      12/27/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.93
  16      06/10/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     6.77
 17     12/24/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  7.56
 18     06/21/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  8.49
 19     12/16/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  9.61
 20     06/02/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 10.45
 21     11/14/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 11.16
 22     07/06/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 12.03
 23     04/06/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 12.58
 24     05/30/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 13.39

H. Restructuring (if any)
                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Closing date extended to Dec.
  12/12/2003                  S       S           7.44
                                                           2005
                                                           Financing percentages increased;
  03/25/2004                  S       S           7.70
                                                           SDR 1.4 million canceled
  06/30/2004                  S       S           8.40     Flood repair component added
                                                           Closing date extended to June
  12/21/2005                  S       S          10.72     2007; Financing percentages
                                                           increased
  06/29/2007                  S       S          12.50     Closing date extended to July 2007
                                                           HPAI component added; closing
  07/26/2007        Yes       S       S          12.53     date for HPAI component
                                                           extended to June 2008

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Land and Agrarian Reform (LAR). The land reform and farm restructuring process, initiated
immediately after the country's independence, was the cornerstone of the government's rural and
agrarian reform program. It aimed at replacing the centrally controlled collective and state farms
by private farms, establishing a market environment, improving farm profitability and providing
opportunities for all types of private farms and farm enterprises to develop. After an initial spurt
of progress, the reform process stagnated in 1993. The Government of Kyrgyzstan (GOK)
responded in 1994 by ordering all remaining former state and collective farms to distribute
shares of their land and their non-land assets to their farm residents and employees. These farms
covered approximately 25% of the land not yet distributed and were mainly located in Chui
oblast. GOK also created a large reserve of land, eventually comprising 25% of all arable land
and named the Land Redistribution Fund (LRF), which was to be used to rectify inequities
resulting from oversights and flaws in the initial land distribution process; of the remainder, half
was to be auctioned off, and half was to be rented out through short-term leases.

This second phase of the reform process, which was to be supported by the project, emphasized
the completion and consolidation of land and asset distribution, rectifying inequities and errors
that had occurred during the first phase, and completing the transformation of those farm
enterprises that still remained under collective management. This required addressing several
key concerns. (i) The existing legal framework impeded the reform progress; legal mandates and
functions of the institutions involved overlapped; a policy and objectives for land auctions were
lacking; and many specific aspects, such as inheritance arrangements for land use rights, needed
clarification and definition. (ii) The Republican Center for Land and Agrarian Reform
(RCLAR), the Centers for Land and Agrarian Reform (CLARs) at the oblast and raion levels,
and the State Agency for Land Management and Land Resources (SALMLR) lacked adequately
trained staff and modern equipment, and coordination and information sharing among them were
weak. (iii) There was a large backlog in land shares still to be issued (25% of all land shares
covering 220,000 ha, mainly in Chui, representing 77% of the total land to be distributed) and in
replacing `temporary' land certificates (which comprised 90% of all certificates issued up to that
time and usually did not include even a sketch map identifying the land parcels) by permanent
ones. (iv) The distribution of non-land property shares had not been carried out in 131 (90 of
these in Chui oblast) of the original 518 state and collective farms, and in many locations non-
land farm assets were still managed by `service centers' run by local administrations or the
previous farm managers. (v) Many farm managers and local officials were reluctant to replace
the pre-reform management structures which therefore continued to remain in place. (vi)
Adequate post-privatization farm support services critically needed by newly created farms (e.g.,
advisory services, credit, input providers) were almost totally absent, except for several small
pilot operations supported by bilateral donors.

Rural Advisory Services (RAS). The break-up of the collective farms and the creation of private
farms where none had existed before drastically changed the needs for rural advisory services.
The new farmers, previously employees of collective farms or other industrial or service

                                                -1-
collectives, had either no or only very specialized knowledge of one or two aspects of large-scale
agricultural production, but none in farming and in operating a private farm enterprise in a
market environment. An urgent need existed for advisory services oriented towards small-scale
private farming. Several small pilot projects supported by other donors and a small livestock-
focused extension program under the IDA-funded Sheep Development Project had demonstrated
the lack of two main types of advice: firstly on general farm management issues, including
financing, taxation, how and where to obtain information and inputs, and marketing; and
secondly on technical issues such as seed and crop management, soil conservation, irrigation
management, animal husbandry and the like.

The lack of an appropriate advisory system was compounded by the virtual collapse of the old
agricultural research system that had been designed to support the state and collective farms.
Moreover, the technologies needed for small-scale farming in the emerging market economy
differed fundamentally from those of the former large-scale farms where little attention was paid
to economic and financial aspects of farming. Location-specific recommendations, based on
farmers' needs and developed with participation of the farmers, were now needed, along with
planting materials and technologies adapted to local ecological and socio-economic conditions.

To be able to reap the benefits of the land reform and respond to the recommendations of the
rural advisory services, farmers also needed access to credit for the purchase of key inputs such
as seed, fertilizer, spare parts, animal feed, etc.

Seed Industry. Quality seed was in very short supply, posing a major obstacle to raising farm
productivity. The seed industry was under-funded and poorly equipped and lacked the capability
to produce marketable varieties, and quality control was weak. On the demand side, the lack of
input credit and of distribution channels hampered the development of a viable private seed
industry. Farmers used genetically highly variable, untreated, locally saved seed, contaminated
with seed-borne diseases and weeds, and generally poor in terms of germination and vigor.

To help revive the seed sector, GOK had developed a national seed strategy, defining the roles of
the state and the private sector, with an emphasis on the development of seed production and
distribution by the private sector, with regulatory functions to be carried out by the state. A seed
law was enacted, but it required compulsory certification of all varieties, which significantly
impeded the development of a market-based seed industry. GOK also intended to introduce a
Law on Plant Breeders Rights, in order to create an enabling environment for private investment
in plant breeding, and to become a member of the International Union for Protection for New
Varieties of Plants (UPOV). Beyond the level of breeding (super elite, elite), seed production
was to be privatized and the state monopoly dismantled.

Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine. The country lacked an effective registration system for
pesticides, and the import, sale and use of pesticides were uncontrolled. Plant quarantine
services were severely underfunded, and major quarantine service facilities were in need of
rehabilitation. A sound legislative framework and effective organization and procedures for crop
protection and plant quarantine services needed to be established to (a) detect and monitor
disease and pest threats, (b) provide early warning of possible threats and disseminate
information, and (c) deploy counter-measures, strategies and methods for protection.


                                                -2-
Agricultural Market Information. One of the major lacunae with respect to agricultural
marketing was the lack of access of producers, traders and consumers to market information. A
successful pilot to collect and disseminate market information was already underway, financed
by the British Know-How Fund, but operating in only two oblasts.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The CAS of May 1998 supported interventions in four main
areas: (1) restoration of growth, particularly in the rural sector, (2) poverty alleviation, (3)
institution building, and (4) strengthening of public finances. The revival of the agricultural
sector was a critical element of IDA's assistance strategy. It included support for the
liberalization of trade and price policies, the improvement of the regulatory framework for
private sector development, land reform and farm restructuring, provision of rural credit, as well
as irrigation and drainage system rehabilitation. The ASSP was intended to help establish and/or
strengthen post-privatization support services for the growing private farming sector and thereby
increase the agricultural contribution to economic growth and rural incomes and contribute to the
alleviation of rural poverty. It also was expected to help consolidate structural reforms and
strengthen institutional capacities.

The Bank, as the major provider of external assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic, was well
positioned to take the lead in providing sector-wide support, having just completed a
comprehensive sector analysis and policy reform study for the country. Other donors were
targeting their support on more narrowly focused projects, but welcomed the Bank's initiative to
tackle some of the fundamental and sector-wide issues within a more comprehensive policy and
operational framework that would also provide a reference frame for their own support activities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objective of the project is to improve the incentive framework for, and the productivity,
profitability and sustainability of, Kyrgyz agriculture by assisting the Borrower in: (a)
implementing land and agrarian reforms and providing support for farm restructuring; (b)
providing emerging private farms with advisory and development services and training in
appropriate improved production technology and practices; (c) promoting the development of a
viable seed industry; (d) establishing the legal framework, institutions and procedures for plant
protection and plant quarantine services; (e) establishing an agricultural market information
system; and (f) enhancing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAWR).

Key project outcome indicators were identified, but no baseline or target values were established:
   (i) Physical outcomes in terms of land and property shares distributed; number of farms
         restructured and new farms created; farm management changes in terms of greater use
         of private (as against collective) management structures;
   (ii) Improvements in farm productivity, profitability, (viability), and sustainability of
         private farming;
   (iii) Improvements in farmers' access to inputs including credit, quality seeds, advisory and
         adaptive research services; crop protection; and market information.




                                               -3-
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

In March 2004, the following additional objective was added: "Improving and securing the
sustainability of river flood protection along the Kugart river." This reflected the addition of the
flood repair component.

In January 2007 a further addition was made: "Minimize the threat posed to humans and to the
poultry industry by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), and in preparing for, the control
and response to HPAI and other infectious diseases." This reflected the reallocation of some
project funds to provide additional financing in support of the Avian Influenza Control & Human
Pandemic Preparedness & Response Project approved by the Bank's Board at the same time.
The restructured ASSP was to contribute to achieve the outcomes of the HPAI Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The primary project beneficiaries were the new owners of land and non-land farm assets
attempting to establish and operate private farms. Activities under the LAR and RAS
components benefited mainly farmers, but also state agencies and institutions responsible for
service provision (CLARs and local administrations) which were targeted for capacity-building.
Extension advice was to be provided to groups of farmers, including both men and women, and
credit resources were targeted through the Farm Development Fund (FDF) towards groups of
poor farmers. Investments and training under the Seed and the Crop Protection and Plant
Quarantine components were to support private seed farms and essential state institutions (Crop
Research Institute [CRI], Forage and Pasture Research Institute [FPRI], Republican State Seed
Inspectorate [RSSI], State Commission for Variety Testing [SCVT], crop protection and plant
quarantine laboratories), and the legal changes and institutional capacity building efforts were to
benefit the seed sector and farmers in general. Starting in 2001, groups of poor farmers benefited
from quality seed distributed for multiplication and on-farm use. Primary beneficiaries of the
Integrated Production Management (IPM) IPM activities were both trainers and farmers. Market
information was provided for the benefit of farmers, but also traders, agro-businesses, and
government institutions. The flood repair works benefited about 23,000 people threatened by
destructive floods, and the HPAI activities are of potential benefit to the entire population.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project was intended to be implemented over a period of 5 years (1998-2003) and comprised
the following six main components:

(1) Land and Agrarian Reform (LAR). This component was to support four main areas: (i)
completion of the distribution of land and non-land assets throughout the country so that there
would be complete private use-rights or ownership of land and non-land assets at the end of the
project period; (ii) establishment of policies and procedures for auctions/leasing of land from the
Land Redistribution Fund (LRF); (iii) capacity building of government agencies and farming
communities to support agricultural enterprise restructuring, including the Republican Center for
Land and Agrarian Reform (RCLAR) and oblast and raion level CLARs, in program


                                                -4-
coordination and implementation, preparation and dissemination of public information,
monitoring and evaluation, and the management of the LRF, as well as overall policy
development, monitoring, outreach and capacity building, including of support service providers,
local governments and farmers; and the capacity of the State Agency for Land Management and
Land Resources (SALMLR) in physical demarcation of land boundaries and issue of land
certificates; and (iv) establishing a legal and regulatory framework for land market development.
The component was to be implemented nationwide, initially focusing on Chui oblast where the
reform process was lagging the most. The British DFID was to provide important international
and local TA under a separate agreement.

(2) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS). This component, funded entirely by
IFAD, but with parallel financing and international TA from the Swiss SDC, was to assist the
newly created, mainly small-scale private farms to develop into profitable farming units by
providing and transferring the necessary farming and farm management knowledge and by
increasing access to credit. The RADS Foundation (RADSF), through a network of rural
advisory and development centers (RADCs), to be supported by a national-level Secretariat, was
to: (i) provide advice to farmers in farming techniques, location-specific technology development
through field trials, demonstrations and adaptive research; and (ii) assist farmers in preparing
business plans for credit applications and in group development (credit, water users, machinery,
marketing). To increase farmers' awareness and understanding, but also to ensure sustainability,
the advisory service was to be integrated, demand-driven and moving towards self-financing
(expect for those services specifically targeted at the poor). Funding was also to be provided for
RADC office rehabilitation, equipment, vehicles, TA and training, and incremental operating
expenses of RADS staff. Several pre-existing smaller and regionally focused extension services
were to be absorbed and integrated into the RADSF.

This component included a sizeable micro-credit facility, the Farm Development Fund (US$1.5
million), to be administered by the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC) and
targeted at groups of very small farmers. In addition, it included a small micro-credit pilot
program (US$0.3 million), the Financial Advisory Services subcomponent, which was expected
to be implemented through micro-finance NGOs and to test new experimental approaches to
micro-crediting.

(3) Seed Industry Development. This component was to support the establishment of a viable,
self-sustaining seed industry, with emphasis on commercialization, and to provide farmers with
good quality seed of improved varieties. Support was to focus on five main areas. First, a wide
range of germplasm of cereal and forage crops was to be acquired to provide the foundation for
the development of new varieties; cereal seed development was to be undertaken by the CRI and
forage crop development by the FPRI. Second, the facilities for cereal and fodder seed
production, processing, storage and distribution at the state breeding farms responsible for the
production of super elite and elite seed were to be rehabilitated by providing incremental
investment and working capital. Third, the development of private commercial seed production
was to be fostered by supporting three of the newly privatized seed farms as models of good
practice. These were to serve as demonstrations to encourage the establishment of private seed
companies. Project funds were to be provided on credit terms for capital investments (repair of
essential buildings, purchase of seed cleaning and farm equipment). Fourth, the capacity of


                                               -5-
MAWR for developing and implementing a seed policy and its regulatory services for variety
testing, registration and seed certification was to be strengthened by rationalizing and
streamlining service provision, introducing modern experimental and data analysis procedures,
adequate variety testing, and publication and dissemination of test results.

The project also supported the development of a legal framework and procedures for the
protection of plant breeder rights and sought to ensure satisfactory implementation of the Seed
Law regulations governing seed certification (shifting from compulsory to voluntary
certification). This was to be achieved by strengthening the Republican State Seed
Inspectorate's capacity, adequately equipping the central/regional seed laboratories to allow
ISTA accreditation, and TA and training in certification procedures. Support was also to be
provided for developing and implementing seed policies, maintaining a registry of plant variety
rights, liaison with international seed organizations, and the development of a National Seed
Association. Lastly, the component provided funding for the publication and dissemination of
official variety testing results and seed industry information.

(4) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine. This component aimed at assisting with the
development of a modern pest management system that ensures user safety, public health and
environmental and agronomic sustainability. This was to be achieved by supporting GOK in
developing the legal and regulatory framework and the administrative tools to ensure the use of
appropriate and safe pest control methods, but also by educating farmers in safe and sustainable
pest prevention and control.         The project therefore supported the development and
implementation of a pesticide registration system, of regulations and procedures governing the
safe distribution and use of pesticides, and of procedures and technical capacity for monitoring
pesticide use and residue content. It did so by providing support for: (i) establishing the legal
framework for regulation of pesticide use and putting in place the requisite regulatory structure,
(ii) the implementation and application of the pesticide registration system, (iii) rehabilitating
key plant quarantine centers and improving the quarantine control procedures for imported
plants, and (iv) Kyrgyz membership in the European Plant Protection Organization. Funding
was provided for the rehabilitation of critical facilities and laboratories, equipment, technical
assistance, staff training and incremental operating costs.

(5) Agricultural Market Information. This component was intended to increase the coverage of
the existing agricultural market information system from two oblasts to the entire country. It was
to support the collection, processing and dissemination of agricultural market information for the
benefit of farmers and producers, processors, traders and policy makers. Over time, the initially
limited scope of information was to be expanded to include all major agricultural inputs, outputs
and processed products at various levels (farmgate, wholesale, retail, etc.), to cover local,
national and international markets, to refine coverage to specific commodity standards and
grades, and to prepare and issue specialized topical reports. The objective was to increase the
transparency of market transactions, transmit market signals to producers and traders, improve
producers' bargaining position, and expand processors' and consumers' choices in product
selection. Financing was to be provided for equipment, TA, training and operating expenses.

(6) Project Implementation Unit. The project supported the establishment and operation of a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU, later renamed APIU) within the MAWR, responsible for


                                               -6-
overall project coordination, including essential staff, equipment and operating costs. Actual
implementation of project activities was to be the responsibility of the respective component-
specific implementing agencies (RCLAR, RADSF, KAFC, CRI, etc.).

1.6 Revised Components

(1) Land and Agrarian Reform

Pasture Management Pilot. Under the LAR component, a one-year pilot program for Pasture
Management Improvement (July 2006 to June 2007) was added in 2006, to introduce and test
community-based pasture management. The objective was to identify suitable approaches for
pasture management that reduce degradation, improve pasture productivity and provide equitable
access to this critical resource by increasing the level of involvement and the capacity of local
communities (pasture users, local governments) in planning, managing and monitoring pasture
resources. Funding was provided for: a review of existing pasture legislation and the
development of a new (draft) pasture law and regulations; mobilizing and training communities
and local governments in four pilot communities and establishing community-based pasture
management institutions and processes; an inventory of the communities' pasture resources and
the preparation of pasture maps; and the development, based on the experience gained during the
pilot, of training material for decentralized community-based pasture management. This new
subcomponent was implemented by the APIU and the Pasture Department of MAWRPI, in close
cooperation with the Community Development and Investment Agency (ARIS), the RASs, the
TES Center (a non-governmental agricultural extension provider), and in collaboration with the
USAID-funded Land Reform and Market Development Project.

(2) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS)

FDF Subcomponent. The originally envisaged Financial Advisory Services (FAS) pilot micro-
credit line (US$0.3 million) was canceled in 1999, based on the recommendation of the task
team of the IDA-supported Rural Finance Project and in agreement with IFAD, the financier of
this project component. The funds were reallocated by IFAD to the main micro-credit line
supported by the project, the Farm Development Fund, in 2002, after the condition of an
acceptable group lending manual had been satisfied.

RADS Machinery Centers. A second modification, also agreed upon in 1999, soon after the
project start, was the elimination of a large package of farm machinery that had been envisaged
for equipping a RADS-managed regional farm machinery demonstration center in each oblast.
Such centers were no longer considered to be essential or viable, nor germane to a rural advisory
service targeted at small and medium-sized farmers.

(3) Seed Industry Development.

Component Redesign. The Seed component was redesigned at the end of 1999 to adapt to
changes in the economic and institutional environment of the seed sector, while maintaining and
further reinforcing its original objective of establishing a viable, self-sustaining seed industry
with emphasis on private sector development. The original design focused on the production of
super-elite and elite cereal and fodder seeds and the demonstration of best-practice commercial

                                               -7-
seed production at the seed farm of the state-owned Industrial Association for Crop Research
(NPOZ) and three selected privatized seed farms. However, the NPOZ farm was found to be an
obstacle to the development of a competitive seed industry, as it blocked direct access by seed
companies to breeders' seed, and the three privatized seed farms selected for the production of
super-elite and elite seed were unwilling to borrow the credit funds provided under the project,
because cereal and fodder seed production was not commercially viable at that time in the
country and the anticipated revenues from seed production were not sufficient to repay these
credits. The focus was therefore shifted from concentrated support for only four farms to
assistance to a broader range of seed producers and to developing a competitive, rather than a
vertically structured seed industry. Greater emphasis was therefore placed on liberalizing the
regulatory environment for the seed industry and, at the same time, offering less capital-intensive
support to a substantially larger number of farms/enterprises.

At the same time, the envisaged substantial TA support was sharply reduced in response to MOF
objections regarding the use of credit funds for international TA. To cover this important need,
TACIS agreed to provide two years of TA for the seed component on grant terms. When the
TACIS support ended, Swedish SIDA agreed to step in and to finance continuing valuable TA
for five more years.

Pilot Program for Poverty Alleviation and Seed Bank Establishment. Following the Mid-Term
Review in 2001, a new activity was added to this component. In response to severe droughts and
early snowfall in 2000, GOK and IDA agreed to include specific support for farmers in poor
mountainous regions particularly affected by these natural calamities, by providing them with
quality seed for multiplication and on-farm use. Farmers were to establish cooperative
Community Seed Funds (CSFs) which would receive and distribute the seeds, collect repayments
(in the form of seed, with a 25% "fee" added) and redistribute these seeds to more members each
subsequent year. The project financed the initial start-up capital in form of seed grants and the
operational expenses of a group of competitively selected local NGOs that provided initial
institutional support to the new CSFs. Important objectives, in addition to the immediate relief
and poverty alleviation aspects, were the dissemination of improved technology as embodied in
high-quality seed, increased food security, crop diversification, generating farmer awareness of
the benefits of quality seeds, and improving incomes of poor farmers. The subcomponent was to
be implemented by the APIU with support of local NGOs responsible for the distribution of
seeds and monitoring, with RAS providing technical advice on seed and crop production.

Emergency Flood Recovery CSFs. In response to severely damaging floods in the spring of
2003, IDA agreed to a GOK request for an emergency recovery program benefiting several
thousand small farmers whose fields had been destroyed and crops lost. Utilizing the
Community Seed Fund approach, the project provided about 4,000 affected small farmers with
seeds, fertilizer and tree saplings and two local machinery service cooperatives with equipment
to serve these farmers.




                                               -8-
1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project closing date was extended several times: first in December 2003 to December 2005,
in December 2005 to June 2007, in June 2007 to 31 July 2007, and finally in June 2007 to 30
June 2008 for the newly added HPAI component only.

Two additional components were added to the project during implementation. Their financing
was made possible by substantial savings realized by (a) the elimination of major procurements
of agricultural machinery for RAS demonstration centers and (b) the mobilization of grant-
funded TA from other donors which freed project funds that had been intended for TA.

Flood Damage Repair and Rehabilitation. Upon the request of GOK, a new component was
added in March 2004 to support the repair of critical flood control works along the Kugart River,
which had been seriously damaged during the 2003 spring floods, posing a severe future risk for
the population in the area. No other financing instrument was immediately available, and IDA
therefore agreed to reallocate US$2.5 million from other components to finance the repair and
reconstruction of the river bank protection embankments, river-bed cleaning, check dam
rebuilding, the development of a siltation model, and capacity building for the Project
Implementation Unit of the MAWRPI Department of Water Resources.

Avian Influenza. In early 2007 the project was restructured to support GOK's efforts to address
the threat of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI). The Kyrgyz Republic, located on the
flight path of many migrating birds, is at high-risk for HPAI, and several neighboring countries
had already experienced outbreaks, but there was little capacity to detect or respond to any
outbreak. The project's development objective was therefore amended and a component added
to minimize the threat posed to humans and to the poultry industry by HPAI and to prepare for,
control and respond to this threat. Savings from other project components were utilized to
supplement the financing provided by IDA for the Avian Influenza Control and Human
Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project (HPAI Project, P099453). ASSP funds were used
to rehabilitate the buildings of four veterinary laboratories and to procure urgently needed
equipment for them as well as to construct safe animal carcass disposal facilities in various
locations throughout the country.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Both the Bank and GOK had little experience with investment lending in the Kyrgyz Republic at
the time of ASSP preparation. This contributed to an overly optimistic sense on both sides on
what should and could be tackled in the project. Extensive background analyses had been
undertaken, but the design of the seed component and of several activities in other components
proved inadequate to achieve the intended objectives. If alternative approaches had been vetted
more carefully, major delays and significant redesign efforts during implementation might have


                                                   -9-
been prevented. The large number of implementing institutions involved also caused difficulties,
not only because almost all of them were unfamiliar with the demand of a market-based
economy on themselves and with Bank projects, but also because many of them underwent
various changes in structure and mandate during the early years of project implementation.

A key aspect that would have benefited from a more realistic assessment was the likely capacity
of GOK to provide counterpart funding; this capacity was significantly overestimated. This
problem became particularly acute after the Russian financial crisis of August 1998 which
occurred soon after the project had been approved by the Bank's Board and before it became
effective, and which had substantial repercussions for the Kyrgyz Republic. The Kyrgyz Som
depreciated sharply from Som 17.5/US$ in mid-1998 to Som 42/US$ in mid-1999. Inadequate
counterpart funding from the start therefore severely impeded and delayed project
implementation and eventually had to be addressed by increasing the IDA and IFAD financing
percentages for project expenditures. In 2004 IDA increased its financing percentages
retroactively, and in 2005 both IDA and IFAD raised their financing to 100%, in line with the
new country financing parameters established earlier that year. Budgetary problems also caused
MOF to impose an almost complete prohibition on the use of IDA and IFAD credit funds to pay
for international TA; the task team's ability to mobilize TA financing from other donors (DFID,
TACIS, SIDA, FAO) on grant terms largely alleviated this problem.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

In response to changes in the institutional and economic environment, and in order to respond
effectively to implementation bottlenecks and newly emerging needs, various modifications were
agreed upon by GOK and IDA/IFAD in the course of project implementation. Early difficulties
also resulted from the change in the leadership of MAWR almost as soon as the project became
effective, which led to a much diminished institutional commitment to the project objectives and
content. This problem was only effectively overcome with a change in the Ministry's leadership
in 2001 and the subsequent appointment of a new PIU Director; implementation performance
improved substantially thereafter. The Revolution of March 2005 did not significantly affect
implementation, because the APIU and the key implementing institutions were able to maintain
their momentum.

(1) Land and Agrarian Reform. Implementation of the LAR component encountered several
serious initial obstacles, most of them attributable to flawed pre-project reform activities. The
main problem was the hasty, incomplete and partly non-transparent and inequitable initial
distribution of land and non-land assets prior to project start-up. This was compounded in the
early project years by continued resistance to true farm restructuring in several quarters,
especially among local officials and farm managers in Chui oblast. A large number of families
had not received any land share certificates; many land shares had been distributed in a manner
not conforming to the prescribed legal norms and procedures; and many had been issued without
parcel plans, maps or even names on the ownership certificates. This created many conflicts that
needed to be resolved. The distribution of non-land property shares proved even more
challenging, as many former state and collective farms were heavily indebted and the issue of
how to deal with their debts had not yet been resolved. Illegal asset privatization had been


                                                  - 10 -
widespread, influential individuals had obtained disproportionate shares, and the condition of
many assets was so poor that they were considered unfit for distribution. This complicated the
completion of the LAR reform, because many disputes, complaints and conflicts needed to be
addressed: 50% of the disputes reviewed under the project related to property shares.

Restructuring of the farms where land shares had not yet been distributed or had been issued
incorrectly (mainly in Chui) proved significantly more difficult than had been anticipated at
appraisal, due to strong local resistance by vested interests. Early reports of progress in
restructuring and the issuance of land certificates proved misleading, because many of the farms
were only restructured pro-forma, but without any change in management structure and/or any
real effort to let individuals take out their shares and operate independently. Progress in covering
these farms with training and public awareness to pave the way for surveyors to map plots was
initially slow in the face of resistance from farm managers who sought to maintain the status
quo, with two of the 22 targeted flatly refusing to cooperate and restructure. Progress improved
measurably when more resources were targeted at this problem. Although to a lesser extent,
counterpart funding shortfalls experienced until 2001 also impeded progress. Even when
funding was provided, none was included for an entire year for critical training and legal
awareness activities. Once project funds were focused on an intensive public information,
awareness and training program for the affected farm populations, implementation of the
restructuring, surveying, mapping and title issuing program accelerated.

The imposition of a moratorium on land sales and lease auctions by GOK shortly after project
start-up, and lifted only in September 2001, also proved a serious hurdle on the way to
establishing appropriate land policies and transactions procedures that were needed to foster the
development of a land market. While the moratorium was in effect, many informal lease and
sale transactions took place without the benefit of an appropriate legal framework, and no pilot
auctions as foreseen at appraisal could be carried out to test and refine the relevant procedures.
The land market has since then begun to develop, albeit slowly, but there still are a number of
restrictions (intended to safeguard the interests of small local farmers vis-a-vis those of
outsiders) that limit sales of agricultural land.

An important modification to the original design was the decision to assign the bulk of land
surveying through competitive tendering to newly established private survey companies, rather
than to the state agency. This resulted in substantial cost savings and at the same time provided a
strong boost to the development of the private surveying business. It also allowed surveying,
mapping and land titling to proceed more rapidly.

(2) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RAS). Two major implementation issues
constrained the coverage and quality of the services provided by the RAS. The first was the
almost complete lack of counterpart funding during the first three years of the project. As a
result, RAS activities could only be effectively provided in the three oblasts that received parallel
financing from the Swiss SDC (Issyk-Kul, Naryn, Jalalabad). Staff left the service, because
salaries were not paid for a long time, and DFID ended its supplemental support earlier than
planned because its funds could not be utilized as planned for the envisaged TA. The unequal
provision of funding and the unequal access to TA between oblasts receiving Swiss support and
those that did not led to sharp differences in RAS service coverage and quality in the different


                                                - 11 -
oblasts. A significant increase in the IFAD financing percentages finally overcame the problem
of inadequate counterpart funding, and an agreement with the SDC to restructure the Swiss
financial and TA support for RAS ensured that the available assistance was subsequently
distributed equally among all oblasts.

Second, while the quality of services improved steadily over time, the number of clients
regularly contacted only reached satisfactory levels from 2002/2003 onward. It was difficult to
establish the RADSF as a truly farmer-driven service provider, and this only began to happen
when the institutional structure was decentralized in 2001 in an effort to make the service more
client responsive. Traditional top-down management practices -- with more emphasis on
quantity than quality, and with no experience and little inclination to elicit client views and
respond to client needs ­ proved hard to overcome. The steering councils established to provide
a voice to the farmer-clients were not very representative of the vast majority of smallholder
farmers. Traditional attitudes and expectations concerning the provision of public services free
of charge also explain the low initial client identification with RAS. Only in the last few project
years was it possible to collect meaningful amounts of farmers' membership fees and direct
client payments for advisory services received; by 2005 these covered between 3 and 7% of total
RAS expenses in the seven oblasts.

Considerably more promising has been the growth in revenues generated through service
contracts with institutional clients; by 2005 these contributed 20% to the RASs' income, with
RAS Chui and RAS Jalalabad covering well over one third of their total expenses through such
contracts.1 Cost cutting efforts since 2006 have further reduced the dependence of the RASs on
external donor support, so that for 2008 it is estimated that self-generated revenue will cover
approximately 40% of total RAS expenditures. Nevertheless, financial sustainability of the RAS
system has not yet been achieved. It will require GOK and MAWRPI to contribute to the
funding of public-good advisory activities.

A number of steps were taken during project implementation to move the RAS towards the goals
of institutional and financial sustainability. These included an administrative decentralization,
replacing the original RADS Foundation by the Association of RASs (ARAS), that gave much
operational and financial autonomy to the seven oblast-level RASs, the transformation into a
membership organization (a step that was not, however, as effective as had been hoped), the
adoption of an institutional "mandate" system that linked funding to specific activities, the
introduction of a (partially) performance-based payment system for staff, and the legal right to
contract with third parties for providing advisory services. In the final project year, a major
review was carried out to help define a future course of action that would allow the individual
RASs to achieve longer-term sustainability without continued direct budget support from
external donors. This restructuring is now being carried out under a new project supported by
IFAD, SDC and IDA, the Agricultural Investments and Services Project (AISP).

FDF Subcomponent. This component started out very vigorously and successfully, with the
strong collaboration of the UNDP's Poverty Alleviation Program in group formation.
Difficulties began to mount, however, from the first half of 2000 onward. First, KAFC failed to
develop an acceptable group lending manual, which blocked additional disbursements to KAFC
1
    Opportunities for such third-party contracts are more limited in other oblasts.


                                                        - 12 -
and therefore restricted lending to reflow funds; new disbursements were frozen by IFAD until
the situation was rectified in late 2002. A governmental decision in the spring of 2000 to provide
an interest rebate on KAFC loans for spring planting caused IDA in June to place a moratorium
on further disbursements for group lending activities under its Rural Finance Project, because
this step threatened the financial viability of KAFC; IFAD followed suit, and disbursements into
the FDF resumed only when the moratorium was lifted in October 2000. Almost immediately
thereafter MOF imposed a ceiling on ASSP funds that could be disbursed, and this again limited
the volume of FDF lending. Lending volume rose sharply in 2001, and IFAD agreed in 2002 to
provide additional resources for the FDF through an internal reallocation of its Loan funds from
the unutilized provisions for RADS farm machinery demonstration centers. This led, however,
to protracted disagreements between MOF and KAFC ­ as MOF wanted these new funds treated
as an MOF loan to KAFC, while the IFAD Loan Agreement specified these to be a capital
infusion into KAFC. The issue was only resolved in KAFC's favor in late 2003, and these
additional resources were therefore effectively available for on-lending only from early 2004
onward. Even then, lending remained at disappointingly low levels in 2004 and 2005, because
KAFC had diverted FDF reflows from the FDF revolving fund to other lending operations. Only
in 2006 did the volume of lending significantly increase again, once the diverted funds were,
under pressure from the task team, restored to the FDF group lending facility.

The shortfalls in utilization of the credit facility limited both the volume of lending and the
number of poor reached. This was compounded by a unilateral decision taken by KAFC, in
violation of the legal agreements with IFAD, requiring partial collateral for credits financed from
the FDF, although the facility was purposefully designed to be non-collateralized so as to reach
and serve the rural poor. Nevertheless, more than 33,000 poor households, a substantial share of
the rural poor, received credit. Repayments were 100%.

(3) Seed Industry Development. A significant redesign of several subcomponents was required
to adjust to a rapidly changing economic and institutional environment, and wavering
commitment within MAWRPI (and Parliament) to develop a truly private and competitive seed
industry much delayed the adoption of essential legal and regulatory reforms. Two of the
subcomponents (seed industry rehabilitation, and demonstration of best practice commercial seed
production) required a substantial redesign to ensure that investments made were financially
viable, while placing the support for the seed industry on a broader base. The international TA
envisaged for seed development and breeding through an institutional link with ICARDA did not
materialize, mainly because the leadership of the Agrarian Academy, at the time parent agency
of both CRI and FPRI, adamantly opposed foreign TA. There also was growing opposition
within MOF to the use of borrowed funds for international TA. This hurdle was overcome by
obtaining TACIS agreement to attach a grant-funded two-year TA project (Dec. 2001 - Nov.
2003) for the seed sector to the ASSP; when this project ended, Swedish SIDA agreed to
continue this support (2004-2008).

Particularly throughout the initial implementation phase serious delays occurred due to the lack
of ownership and commitment within MAWR and its Seed Unit. The policy guidelines for
compulsory seed certification were not prepared, and the National Seed Association was not
established as required by the end of 1998, causing non-compliance with two legal covenants. A
full year was lost for variety testing due to delayed procurement of seeds; after two years of


                                               - 13 -
project implementation no suitable building for the Republican State Seed Inspectorate (RSSI)
had been acquired; the Seed Law amendments were only finalized and approved in 2005; the law
on Plant Breeders Rights was submitted to Parliament only in 2005, instead of mid 1998; and
laboratory refurbishments were held up due to late procurement.

Most importantly, there was a lack of interest and commitment by MAWRPI to reorient its role
from directly managing to overseeing and regulating the seed sector. Throughout the project
period MAWRPI continued to purchase and distribute large quantities of seed, interfered with
pricing, and pressured aiyl okmotus (local self-governments) to give farms that were "registered"
as seed farms preferential access to LRF land. Combined with its continuing practice of
certification, registration/attestation and preferential treatment of a limited number of seed farms
and its attempts to directly allocate special equipment to specific farms, these practices posed a
lingering obstacle to the development of a competitive seed industry and seed market. As a
result, small farmers began to benefit only in the later project years from the support provided to
the seed farms when more and better seeds became available; more immediate benefits were
realized by those roughly 26,000 poor farm families who participated in the Community Seed
Funds introduced during the course of project implementation.

The legal and regulatory reforms envisaged directly collided in several areas with the vested
interests of influential stakeholders and this explains, to a considerable degree, the slow pace of
progress in this area. Persistent efforts by the Bank's team, supported with TA from the FAO
and SIDA, were required to see these reforms carried through. The amendments to the Seed
Law, particularly the removal of the requirement that seed farms be licensed by MAWRPI, was
only approved in 2006 by Parliament, and the revised Plant Variety Protection Law only in
March 2005. The Seed Association of Kyrgyzstan (SAK), established to represent the interests
of private firms active in seed production and marketing, initially did not fulfill its avowed
mandate, because MAWRPI officials occupied key leadership positions within SAK and exerted
effective control over it; this was only corrected in the later project years after intensive efforts
by the Bank's task team. Nevertheless, MAWRPI's frequent and large purchases of seeds and
their distribution through administrative arrangements explain why many nominal SAK members
continue to regard MAWRPI as their major client and source of income and show little interest
in the development of a competitive seed market.

(4) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine. Most activities foreseen under this component were
completed by 2003, albeit after much delay. Preparation of the rationalization plan for plant
quarantine laboratories and of the manual on pesticide management, application, crop protection
and plant quarantine were much delayed, causing non-compliance with legal covenants until they
were provided to IDA in 1999. Due to difficulties in preparing feasibility studies for the
rehabilitation of buildings, problems encountered during construction and late procurement of
major equipment, the laboratories were only finished with considerable delay.

(5) Agricultural Market Information. The Kyrgyz Agricultural Market Information Service
(KAMIS) suffered from the repeated shortfalls and delayed provision of GOK counterpart
funding and its initial inability to generate and retain revenues of its own. This caused a number
of key staff to leave the service when their salaries were not paid for extended periods of time.
Information provision and coverage had to be curtailed. Radical cost cutting and the decision,


                                                - 14 -
advocated by the Bank and implemented in 2003, to transform KAMIS from a ministry service
into a private company that would operate under contract to MAWRPI finally opened the way to
an institutionally and financially sustainable arrangement. Only then was KAMIS legally able to
charge for services rendered, but it also compelled KAMIS to cut its expenditures so as to match
its revenues. Since then, GOK funding for the public-good service provided by KAMIS has
been provided through annual contracts between MAWRPI and KAMIS. Revenue from services
provided to other private and institutional clients in 2007 amounted to about 30% of the total.

(6) Flood Damage Repair and Rehabilitation. The unusually lengthy process of governmental
ratification of the necessary amendments to the DCA considerably delayed the start of
implementation. The procurement process, managed by the Irrigation PIU, for the modeling
contract and unanticipated early (2005) and heavy (2006) spring floods caused further delays, as
did the contractor's inability to mobilize a sufficient number of heavy trucks to bring stones to
the work site on time. Nevertheless, all activities planned under this additional component were
satisfactorily completed within the allocated budget.

(7) Avian Influenza. The investments financed under this newly added component in the final
project year were carried out as planned. The central and two regional veterinary laboratories
and that at the Livestock, Veterinary and Pasture Research Institute were rehabilitated and
furnished with urgently needed equipment, and a number of safe animal carcass disposal
facilities ("Bekkari holes") were constructed and/or rehabilitated in various locations throughout
the country.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E system was inadequately designed during appraisal. No concrete measurable outcome
indicators were identified, and no baseline and target values were established -- either for the
PDO outcome indicators or for component-specific outputs and outcomes. Instead, the M&E
system, still to be established, was to provide location- and institution-specific baseline and
target indicators based on annual project work programs, which had not been finalized. Given
that this was one of the first rural operations financed by IDA in the Kyrgyz Republic, the lack of
in-country capacity to develop and monitor project outcomes, the complexity of the project and
the intertwined nature and impact of various projects supported by different donors in the rural
sector, more emphasis should have been paid during appraisal to develop the M&E framework
fully, including an adequate measurement methodology.

Component outputs and (some) outcomes were monitored, but the quality of monitoring varied
substantially. Information provided during early supervision missions was not always reliable,
particularly with regard to the LAR component, in effect concealing problems faced in
implementation. The RAS system, by contrast, effectively collected, disseminated und used a
considerable number of output and outcome indicators throughout. Data for other indicators
could not feasibly be collected by the APIU or needed to be adjusted during implementation to
reflect changes in project activities.

Extensive efforts were made starting in early 2001 to strengthen capacity for monitoring project
outputs and outcomes and to develop and implement an appropriate M&E system. APIU staff
participated in international training, which substantially strengthened the M&E capacity of the

                                               - 15 -
APIU. In the subsequent project years, output indicators were effectively compiled and used to
gauge implementation progress. More emphasis was also placed then on the collection of
qualitative outcome indicators measured through beneficiary surveys, notably for the RAS
system, to help gauge changes in service orientation and quality.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated as a Category "C" operation, and the main safeguards issue was the
expected positive impact on the environment through improvements in soil quality, waste
management, and the more effective use of seeds, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals. The crop
protection and plant quarantine services were expected to reduce the risk of new pests and
regulate the quality, supply and use of pesticides. These activities were combined with field
trials and demonstrations of the IPM approach that was successfully introduced by the project.

Compliance with fiduciary requirements was in considerable jeopardy in the early stages of
project implementation. The project's financial management and accounting system had major
deficiencies, and several initial attempts to hire a qualified financial manager failed, resulting in
non-compliance. The lack of counterpart funds and the loss of substantial PPF funds in 1999
(due to the collapse of the bank where they were deposited) not only caused several disruptions
in project implementation, but also led to a diversion of IFAD funds in 2000 to cover GOK
counterpart obligations. Disbursements from the IFAD Special Account had to be suspended
until these ineligible expenditures were recovered to the Special Account.

There were two other incidences of improper financial management and procurement.
Approximately US$6,000 provided for the procurement of seeds in 1998 were not accounted for
and were only recovered after a lengthy investigation. And RAS engaged for some time in 2000
in activities outside its mandate, while its financial management and accounting system was so
poor that auditors refused to express an opinion in their audit reports. Hiring of an international
financial management specialist was instrumental in correcting the deficiencies in the system
(including manuals, software, training). From 2001 onwards, significant efforts by the APIU,
under new leadership, brought the financial management and accounting system in full
compliance with Bank policies and procedures. Thereafter, financial and procurement matters
were managed very satisfactorily.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Post-completion support for the investments financed and institutions established is being
provided through three main channels: (i) a follow-on operation, the Agricultural Investments
and Services Project (AISP), co-financed by IDA and IFAD and with parallel financing from the
Swiss SDC, (ii) other rural sector operations financed by IDA and by other donors, and (iii)
government support and funding.




                                                   - 16 -
Outstanding issues concerning the land and agrarian reform are being addressed under the
ongoing IDA-supported Land and Real Estate Registration Project (LRERP) and a follow-up
project recently approved by the Bank's Board. This Second LRERP will provide support for
the development of the land and real estate market, by further developing a reliable and efficient
registration system. This will include addressing such issues as the regularization of problematic
ownership rights cases and cases where conflicts have arisen. The AISP contains a major
component designed to introduce, country-wide, an environmentally and socially sustainable and
economically productive system of improved management of pasture land which accounts for
about 90% (9.2 million hectares) of all agricultural land.

Adequate transition arrangements have also been put in place for the Rural Advisory Services
within the AISP which will support, with annually declining funds, the final phase of
institutional development of the RAS. Improvements in the RAS governance, staffing and
management arrangements are intended to enhance client responsiveness and financial
sustainability and to improve service quality, range and outreach. The objective is to put the
system in a position where it can function without further budgetary support from external
donors. Project funding will be provided directly to farming communities, who will be
responsible for defining their own extension needs, contracting with an eligible service provider,
monitoring service delivery, and paying for services received.

KAFC is in the process of being privatized, with one or more strong international partners as
major shareholders, and this is expected to strengthen its capacity to extend credit to rural clients.

The successful program of Community Seed Funds is being significantly expanded under the
AISP, with a particular emphasis on improving food security and raising the productivity of poor
farmers. The private seed industry and the Seed Association continue to receive technical
support under a project funded by the Swedish SIDA, in continuation of the assistance provided
within the framework of SIDA-IDA collaboration during the implementation of the ASSP.

The AISP will also expand the scope of IPM activities to cover more crops as well as livestock
and to spread awareness and adoption of IPM to all oblasts of the country.

Current provisions by GOK for the maintenance and operations of the facilities rehabilitated
under the Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine component are inadequate. Major investments,
totaling US$1.1 million, were made to rehabilitate and upgrade key laboratories. After the end
of ASSP support in 2003, when all project investments and activities were satisfactorily
completed, GOK was to finance the recurrent costs of these services, including the operation and
maintenance of the modernized laboratories. Site visits in early 2008 to the two central
laboratories for the crop protection (toxicology) and plant quarantine services revealed, however,
that MAWRPI has failed to ensure adequate funding and staffing of these essential facilities,
rendering both laboratories inoperative. MAWRPI has since then assured IDA in writing that
future budgets will include adequate funding for staff and laboratory operations.

The Kyrgyz Agricultural Market Information Service will receive some financial support, for
two more years and on a declining scale, under the AISP on the basis of an annual service
contract with MAWRPI. MAWRPI will gradually assume the entire cost of the annual contracts.


                                                - 17 -
The funding provided for HPAI control and prevention activities was only a comparatively small
contribution to the larger nation-wide and multi-year effort to enable the national veterinary and
human health services to deal effectively with the threat of HPAI. The bulk of this effort is
being funded by the ongoing HPAI Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The development objectives of the ASSP and the priorities identified were fully aligned with the
government's policy priorities and the Bank's CAS at the time of appraisal and continued to
remain so during project implementation. The 1998 CAS placed heavy emphasis on restoring
the agricultural sector as a key element to foster growth and reduce poverty. The ASSP, as one
of several rural operations initiated during that time, was to establish critical support services for
farmers and a suitable legal and institutional framework for an agricultural sector based on
efficient, market-driven private farming. It was part of a cluster of Bank projects that sought to
underpin the reform and recovery of Kyrgyz agriculture ­ along with the Sheep Development
Project, the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, the Rural Finance Project, and the Land and Real
Estate Registration Project.

Sustaining agricultural growth and raising farm productivity and rural incomes remain key
priorities of GOK. The agricultural policy concept of the Kyrgyz Republic for the period until
2010 highlights the importance of further strengthening agricultural advisory and information
services. Likewise, the Joint Country Support Strategy 2007-2010 adopted by the Bank jointly
with the ADB, SDC, DFID, and the UN Group focuses on providing support to GOK in
implementing the agricultural sector strategy and the development of rural support services and
on fostering strong and sustained pro-poor growth. The key objective of the Bank's Country
Development Strategy 2009-2011 is the alleviation of poverty with high emphasis placed on
increasing agricultural productivity and income growth. In addition, the project has been
responsive to changing needs and priorities (flood emergency, HPAI) of the Kyrgyz Republic,
and project design and institutional and implementation arrangements were modified several
times (notably in the RAS and Seeds components) to serve better the project's and the
government's development objectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

The project achieved its development objectives, albeit with some shortcomings in several areas.
It laid down the foundation for the market-based economy in the agricultural sector by
modernizing legislation, rationalizing the regulatory framework and significantly improving the
incentive environment across a range of key areas. It established policies and procedures for
land auctions and guidelines and regulations for the management and leasing of state-owned
LRF land. It achieved the adoption of critical amendments to the Land Code, the mortgage law,
the law on management of agricultural land and 14 subsidiary regulations. It was instrumental in


                                                   - 18 -
modernizing the Seed Law, developing and adopting the laws on plant breeders' rights and on
chemicalization and plant protection, modernizing the laws on plant variety protection and on
plant quarantine, and developing a number of associated regulations, standards and
implementation guidelines in the seed, plant protection and pesticide management areas. It
established the groundwork for the development of grassroots-based farmer cooperatives by
establishing group credit self-help groups and community seed funds and developing the
procedures for their legal registration.

The project contributed to increasing the productivity, profitability and sustainability of Kyrgyz
agriculture by supporting the implementation of policy and institutional reforms and the
establishment of essential farmer support services. It promoted and deepened the land and
agrarian reform, provided critical advisory services for the newly emerging private farms and
small-scale loans for poor farmers, supported the modernization of the key public and private
sector institutions in the seed sector and the creation of farmer groups collaborating in
community seed banks, facilitated Kyrgyz membership in several essential international
agricultural regulatory bodies and schemes which in turn opened access to world markets for
Kyrgyz producers, developed the legal basis and upgraded the institutions for crop protection and
plant quarantine, and established a country-wide, well-functioning agricultural market
information system. It repaired seriously damaged flood protection works on the Kugart River
and greatly improved the safety of the local residents. And the ability of the national veterinary
services to respond to the threat of highly-pathogenic avian influenza has been much
strengthened through laboratory upgrading and the provision of urgently needed equipment and
facilities. While the transition from centrally planned to privately and competitively managed
agricultural production is not yet fully complete, the institutions and services set up with project
support are providing critically needed services to the farmers and rural population.

The project contributed substantially to moving the land and agrarian reform towards completion
and, in particular, to the distribution of land and non-land assets to farmers. With direct project
support about 240,000 ha of agricultural land were distributed to private farming units,
increasing the total area distributed from 766,000 ha in 1997 to 1,007,000 ha in 2006, equivalent
to 90.8% of the land available for distribution. By the end of 2006 a total of 531,818 permanent
land share certificates, with parcels demarcated on the ground and parcel plans included in the
certificates, were issued. The project supported the reorganization and distribution of land and
property shares in 20 of the 22 former state and collective farms that had not yet been
restructured, and it initiated the privatization of the former state seed and breeding farms. The
reorganization of these 20 state and collective farms led to the creation of initially 905 new
farms, agricultural cooperatives and other types of enterprises, but further structural changes
continue to take place as land owners decide either to withdraw their holdings from larger units
and operate on their own or, conversely, to join with neighbors or relatives in larger ventures.
Country-wide, private farm management structures now prevail almost universally.

Farmers are benefiting from project activities through improved access to critical inputs
including seeds, credit, market information and advisory services which much improved their
ability to establish and operate private farms. During the almost nine years of project
implementation, a total of 4,574 groups of poor farmers with 33,052 members received loans
from the FDF. High-quality seed was provided to approximately 26,000 farmers through CSFs.


                                               - 19 -
Crop and fodder varieties developed or acquired from abroad increased productivity and also
introduced profitable new crops such as soybeans. Critical market information is now available
to all farmers, free of charge. The RAS system is the only extension service provider with a
nationwide network and substantial outreach; by the end of 2005 it was working in 55% of all
villages, directly reaching 6% of all farm households and (since most farms are jointly operated
by a group of families) about 21% of all farms. Productivity, profitability and sustainability of
private farms have improved notably. In 2002, private peasant farms already generated seven
times the value added per hectare and five-and-a-half times the value added per worker as did the
remaining unrestructured state and collective farms.2 Additional specific productivity gains
resulted from the use of high-quality seeds by CSF members and from the adoption of IPM
methods disseminated by the project.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The project was primarily focused on supporting policy, legal and institutional reforms and
strengthening. No ex-post estimation of its economic or financial efficiency was undertaken.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was relevant and timely. It responded to critical needs in the Kyrgyz agricultural
economy and to strategic priorities indentified as such in the CAS. Weakness in initial project
design were recognized and effectively addressed very early during implementation. The
intended objectives were achieved, even if in several cases only with considerable delay. The
project made a substantial contribution to raising agricultural productivity, reducing poverty in
the rural areas, strengthening key institutions, and promoting private enterprise in farming.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

    Cooperation with multiple other donors and projects was very productive and important. The
    ASSP was widely regarded as providing an overarching operational and institutional
    framework for other donors' support in the agricultural sector, and a number of them
    essentially attached their own topically focused projects to the ASSP, either to provide
    specific additional or more intensive support to an ASSP-assisted institution or program
    (SDC, DFID, UNDP, TACIS, SIDA, FAO), or to build upon an activity initiated or an
    institution established/strengthened by the ASSP (GTZ, which picked up some of the CSFs
    and helped them develop into full-fledged cooperatives).
    The switch from state to private surveyors in the LAR component provided a crucial initial
    boost to the development of the private surveyor industry.

2
    World Bank, Kyrgyz Republic: Agricultural Policy Update ­ Sustaining Pro-poor Rural Growth (Report No.
    31040), 2004


                                                   - 20 -
    In the seed sector, some results achieved exceeded those anticipated at appraisal: no other
    country in Central Asia, for example, has as yet become a member of ISTA or UPOV, and
    the SAK has taken the lead in establishing a regional seed association for Central Asia.
    The flood relief support could be provided quickly and effectively because the project had
    gained prior experience with CSFs and could readily replicate this model. In addition, good
    working relations with GTZ and its agricultural cooperatives project allowed for rapid
    provision of critical farm machinery to two local cooperatives serving the flood victims, a
    process that might otherwise have taken years to arrange.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

    The privatization of farm land and its distribution to all members of the former collectives
    was an enormously important and effective instrument to support the poor. The small farm
    plots provided them with a critically needed basis for making a living when most other
    employment options in the rural areas had disappeared in the aftermath of the collapse of the
    Soviet system.
    The CSF program and the flood victim rehabilitation program modeled after it were limited
    to poor households, owning less than 2 ha of farm land.
    The targeting mechanism, eligibility criteria and loan conditions under the FDF group
    lending facility ensured that credit was targeted towards the poorest and most vulnerable.
    Target villages were identified by the UNDP Poverty Alleviation Program, based on poverty
    level, giving priority to the poorest and most remote. Only groups whose members' income
    did not exceed US$20 per month (at the time of group formation) were eligible to receive
    FDF loans. And loans were based on group-based social collateral. (Unfortunately, this
    targeting mechanism was for some time rendered ineffective when KAFC unilaterally
    introduced physical collateral requirements. The extent of the negative impact can, however,
    not be quantified.)
    Special and effective efforts were made to ensure that women's legal rights concerning land
    were safeguarded.
    A noteworthy aspect of the project is the improved access to extension services for women,
    who accounted for 51% of all training participants, 47% of the regular RAS clients and 42%
    of all regular client contacts.
    Women's groups were explicitly targeted under the Community Seed Fund (CSF) program to
    receive high-quality vegetable seeds.
    Group formation, although usually not formalized in a legal manner, proved difficult at first,
    due to lingering fears of a renewed collectivization, but gradually took hold in the FDF, RAS
    and CSF components and helped pave the way for more formal cooperative structures that
    have since been successfully established under several other projects supported by IDA and
    others (e.g., Village Investment Project, GTZ Cooperatives Project).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Institutional strengthening and capacity building was an integral part of most of the project
components. In the case of the RAS system the achievements are not yet such that their longer-
term sustainability can be regarded as being assured, but the foundation has been laid; a final


                                                  - 21 -
phase of external support, now being provided under the Agricultural Investments and Services
Project, will seek to complete this task. The key governmental institutions in the seed sector ­
RSSI, SCVT, CRI, FPRI -- have been successfully strengthened to the point where the first two
meet international standards and the other two are performing effectively. The efforts made in
the Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine component have been in considerable measure undone
by MAWRPI's failure to cover O&M costs and staff salaries; it will be difficult to rectify this,
because the capacity embodied in the laboratory staff who have left will not be easily recovered.
KAMIS has successfully been transformed into a commercially operating private entity. The
Many of the CSFs are thriving as viable farmer self-help groups, and the first and most dynamic
among them have developed into full-fledged cooperatives. The Seed Association of Kyrgyzstan
has become an active promoter of Kyrgyz seed producer interests. MAWRPI itself has gained an
Agricultural Projects Implementation Unit that is exemplary in its professionalism and
effectiveness and is managing multiple operations.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No ex-post beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk that development outcomes will not be sustained is low with respect to the
achievements under the LAR, Seeds, KAMIS, Flood Repair and HPAI component, but
significant for the RAS and the Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine components.

This risk to the latter two components is due to concerns over their financial sustainability.
Government commitment to, and financing of, the public-good elements of the services provided
has been inadequate so far and this is likely to remain so, given the precarious governmental
budget situation. In the case of the central toxicology and plant quarantine laboratories,
MAWRPI failure to provide O&M funding and to maintain adequate staffing has already caused
both facilities effectively to function; MAWRPI has committed itself to rectifying the funding
problem, but the staff capacity already lost will not be easily and quickly regained. In the case of
the RASs, their future will increasingly rest on their ability to generate revenue through direct
contracts with community-level farmers' organizations and other clients. Generating sufficient
demand for their services will in turn depend on further improving their service coverage and
quality, and the final phase of support being provided to the RASs under the ongoing AISP is
intended to achieve this. It is notable, that the rural population is willing and able to pay for
critical self-identified needs, as the experience under the First and Second Village Investment
Projects has shown.




                                               - 22 -
A second risk is that of a possible reversal of some of the key reforms in the legal framework
governing the agricultural sector; concerns in 2008 over rapid food price increases seem to have
triggered revived interest in some quarters in restoring greater governmental control over the
production and distribution of essential agricultural commodities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during project identification, preparation, and appraisal was moderately
satisfactory. The task team took into consideration the available sector reviews and analyses and
appropriately identified the key issues and problems faced in Kyrgyz agriculture at the time.
Lessons learned from other donor's activities were incorporated. The project objectives were
fully in line with the government's policy and structural reform objectives.

However, there were also several significant shortcomings. Given that GOK, and MAWR in
particular, had very little experience with agricultural sector reform, institutional arrangements
and work programs should have been vetted and spelled out more carefully. The seed sector
component, for instance, had to be completely redesigned shortly after the project became
effective, because a number of activities envisaged could not be implemented as planned and/or
were inadequate to address the key issues identified. The project design was complex and
covered multiple sectors and even more implementing institutions and numerous separate
activities. This posed a serious risk of overload for institutions that were young and
inexperienced, especially with respect to internationally funded projects. Most project staff had
no experience outside the former Soviet Union and therefore lacked a reference frame against
which to gauge what they were expected to do and to achieve. Kyrgyz agriculture faced a host
of problems, but it was a challenging task to tackle all of them at once. In retrospect, the task
team did not adequately assess the capacity of MAWR to implement a substantial policy,
institutional and operational agenda across such a broad spectrum of subsectors. Neither did it
fully recognize GOK's severe budget constraints which caused major problems with respect to
counterpart funding and eventually led to the virtual prohibition on using project funds for
international TA. The fact that three different task team leaders succeeded each other in short
order during preparation/appraisal was probably not conducive to maintaining continuity and
focusing on greater in-depth assessments of local capacity at the level of the many individual
implementing institutions.

A number of project components lacked detailed and agreed-upon work plans for the first year of
implementation. This placed a heavy burden on the PIU to implement the project. FMS,
procurement and M&E arrangements and plans were only partially in place, and no baseline
indicators and target were established.



                                                 - 23 -
 (b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. The quality of supervision, the focus on
development impact, and the attention paid to resolving design and implementation problems
were high. Supervision missions were carried out regularly, with an adequate skill mix to cover
the various components. Bank management provided above-average supervision budgets in
recognition of the project's complexity and the problems that needed to be addressed.
Supervision missions were complemented by detailed reviews and analyses of particular subjects
(e.g., assessment of women's rights to land, 2000; study on competitive inputs marketing, 2000;
tri-partite RAS Review, 2006), by utilizing other sources of funds. Bottlenecks were identified
and addressed with vigor. Supervision reports balanced critical assessments constructively with
practical advice for solving problems. This was complemented by continuous communications
with the APIU on all essential aspects of project implementation, with proactive support
provided to the APIU to respond to problems encountered (counterpart funding, financial
management, M&E, seeds component redesign, RAS decentralization, KAMIS privatization).
The very close cooperation between the APIU and the Bank team was critical for achieving the
project's development objectives.

Bank support was focused on achieving the project's development objectives and on maximizing
project impact on poverty reduction, while pursuing cost-effective solutions, sustainability and
ensuring high quality of the services provided.         When implementation progress was
unsatisfactory from late 1999 until September 2000, the Bank made special efforts to assist the
Borrower in overcoming the bottlenecks and adjusting project design and implementation
arrangements to match the new realities. The Bank also responded rapidly and effectively to
GOK requests to help address critical emerging needs (flood damage, HPAI threat), by
restructuring the project. The MTR and the subsequent project restructuring were appropriately
utilized to address problems encountered. Adequate project follow-up support and transition
arrangements have been ensured.

The Bank team maintained a continuous and intensive dialogue with the MAWRPI leadership.
This was instrumental in sustaining and deepening commitment to the sectoral reform agenda
and led MAWRPI to look to the team in helping to develop the ministry's rural sector strategy
and its contributions to GOKs Comprehensive Development Framework and its Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The team's good rapport with the other project financiers (IFAD and SDC)
and with other donor and project teams in Kyrgyzstan was a major factor in securing
complementary grant assistance from other donors and reaping important synergy benefits from
effective cooperation.




                                                   - 24 -
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The good performance during supervision made up for the only moderately satisfactory
performance during preparation and appraisal. The initial design shortcomings were proactively
and effectively addressed, and the project achieved its development objectives.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

While there were significant shortcomings in the Borrower's performance at the beginning of the
project, these were largely rectified during implementation, and overall Borrower performance is
therefore assessed as moderately satisfactory. The lack of adequate counterpart funding
seriously affected project implementation until other donors agreed to provide essential TA with
grant funding and IDA and IFAD raised their respective financing percentages. The protracted
and slow process of implementing the agreed changes in the legal framework (particularly in the
seed sector) and the very time consuming and lengthy ratification process of legal documents
(e.g., DCA amendment for the flood damage repair component) hindered effective project
implementation. The Borrower was very late in complying with several legal covenants.

The key issues that remain to be addressed by the Borrower after project completion are to re-
establish and ensure adequate funding of the laboratories that were rehabilitated under the Crop
Protection and Plant Quarantine components, and funding the contractual arrangements with the
RASs and with KAMIS to continue to provide their essential public-good services to the rural
population.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agencies, taken together, is rated satisfactory,
notwithstanding the fact that in some instances the performance of individual agencies was not
commensurate with that rating.

The main implementing agency was MAWRPI, with its various departments and subsidiary
institutions. The performance of the Seed Unit, responsible for the moving the legislative and
regulatory reform agenda forward and for coordinating project activities in the seed sector as a
whole, was unsatisfactory. The Unit lacked the vision, commitment and drive to fulfill its
mandate. By contrast, the performance of the RSSI and the SCVT was highly satisfactory; both
carried out their agreed work programs as planned, the RSSI achieved ISTA accreditation, and
the SCVT operates in full compliance with UPOV requirements. The performance of the
Department of Chemicals and Crop Protection (DCCP) and of the State Inspectorate of Plant
Quarantine (SIPQ) was satisfactory until about 2005, when MAWRPI essentially ceased to
finance their respective laboratories. The performance of the CRI and the FPRI (both initially


                                              - 25 -
under the Agrarian Academy, but since 2002 under MAWRPI, the latter then folded into the
LVPRI) was satisfactory, having improved substantially after their transfer from the Agrarian
Academy to MAWRPI. The performance of the Department of Water Resources (DWR) and its
Irrigation PIU was satisfactory, notwithstanding the somewhat delayed completion of the flood
damage repair works on the Kugart River.

MAWRPI itself received very substantial ongoing budget support for its recurrent expenditures
(excluding staff salaries) from the European Union, and this proved to be a considerable
disincentive to decisive internal reform and refocusing the Ministry on its new role as an
oversight and regulatory institution, rather than an institution directly managing the agricultural
sector. The Ministry's performance was moderately satisfactory: satisfactory performance from
2001 through 2005, when the Ministry generally, but cautiously pursued a path of market-
oriented policy reform, was sandwiched by moderately unsatisfactory performance in the initial
project years and only moderately satisfactory performance in the final two years when there
were frequent changes at the top. The failure to fund the staff and operations of the toxicology
and plant quarantine laboratories modernized at considerable expense under the ASSP is
indicative of that deteriorating performance in recent years.

The performance of the APIU was satisfactory. Initial weaknesses were outweighed by highly
satisfactory performance from 2002 onward, when its commitment to achieving the PDOs and its
energetic leadership were a driving force for successful project implementation. Implementation
issues were addressed proactively and in a timely manner. Financial management and
procurement were handled effectively. Strong leadership was provided for all components, and
after the initial start up problems, the project was managed effectively, particularly given its
complexity and the multitude of components. The level of interaction with the task team
(keeping IDA informed at all times, alerting the Task Team to anticipated bottlenecks and
problems) and the coordination with the various donors supporting or collaborating with the
project were outstanding. Particularly noteworthy was also the flexibility to adopt and
incorporate changes in design and scope of project activities, which was substantially more
demanding on the APIU than on other project PIUs. The two areas where the APIU's
performance initially showed shortcomings related to fiduciary and M&E issues; with the
appointment of the new APIU Director, these were rigorously addressed.

The Republican Center for Land and Agrarian Reform (RCLAR) and the oblast- and raion-level
CLARs performed satisfactorily, leading the effort of providing clear and comprehensive
information to the members of state and collective farms regarding the LAR objectives and
procedures, their rights and their options. Their work was much appreciated by the clients. They
produced and disseminated large quantities of informational material, held hundreds of public
information meetings to explain and to answer questions, and actively supported numerous
farmers in resolving legal disputes and securing their rights,

The performance of GosRegister, the agency that absorbed the State Agency on Land
Management and Land Resources (SALMLR) almost as soon as the project became effective,
was moderately satisfactory. While it pushed ahead very forcefully in the initial project years --
with its own funds and outside the project framework -- with the issuance of land ownership
certificates to the new farm families, it did so with notable disregard for the quality of its work.


                                               - 26 -
Many of the land certificates issued were subsequently found to be flawed, because they lacked
plot maps etc. Its performance improved measurably once it agreed to use the project funds
earmarked for its work and to work in accordance with the agreed project parameters.

Overall, the performance of the various agencies that initially comprised or today comprise the
rural advisory services system is rated moderately satisfactory. The original RADSF did not
overcome the legacy of top-down centralism and failed to develop a client-oriented service. It
did, however, succeed in consolidating several pre-existing smaller, regionally focused and
differently structured and managed extension services into a single coherent service and in
establishing the essential institutional structures and deploying the necessary staff to deliver rural
advisory services throughout the country. This new service also performed well in helping poor
farmers organize themselves into Self-Help Groups that were then able to obtain group loans
from KAFC.

The performance of the subsequently established decentralized oblast-level RASs varied
considerably among RASs and across different aspects of their activities, but was on the whole
moderately satisfactory. Shortcomings ranged from initially inadequate financial management in
several cases to unsatisfactory performance in establishing contractual relationships with new
institutional clients and other donor projects looking for advisory service providers (Osh); the
effort to develop into genuine membership organizations was largely unsuccessful; and the
farmers' steering councils were neither adequately representative of RAS clients nor effective
oversight bodies for the RAS managers. On the positive side were the adoption of a work
planning system that linked tasks to identified needs and to budget lines, the upgrading of staff
skills, the implementation of a partially performance-based remuneration system for staff, and
the increasing reliance in a number of RASs on part-time community agents living in the
villages. The national coordination unit, RASCO, performed only moderately satisfactorily,
focused more on administrative matters and an effort to reassert itself as an oversight body rather
than on representing the RAS system vis-à-vis MAWRPI and MOF and on identifying and
mobilizing new opportunities for the RASs to generate income. The ATC, finally, performed
satisfactorily until it became embroiled in protracted internal management conflicts in the final
project year; its performance in managing the IPM program was very satisfactory.

KAFC performed marginally satisfactory. This rating is based on the fact that KAFC was late in
complying with legal conditions (group lending manual), several times failed to adhere to agreed
project conditions (imposition of collateral requirements, diversion of funds to other lending
facilities), and the rather low levels of lending, relative to the funds provided by IFAD, from
2002 onward.         These deficiencies were counterbalanced by KAFC's effective loan
administration and supervision, its successful efforts to develop many poor farmers into
creditworthy and responsible borrowers, and its success in helping a number of associations of
Self-Help Groups to develop into micro-credit associations that are now able to operate as micro-
credit intermediaries.

The non-MAWRPI institutions in the Seed component performed satisfactorily. The Seed
Association of Kyrgyzstan started out poorly, but over time and under new leadership became
energetic and proactive; its leadership in establishing a Central Asian seed association is
indicative of this. The Community Seed Funds, with a few exceptions, performed satisfactorily


                                                - 27 -
or even highly satisfactorily. 56% of them continue to expand in membership and range of
activities, and only 21% are slowly declining. Their national federation (established in 2006)
performed satisfactorily in supporting its members.

KAMIS performance was highly satisfactory. It established what is widely regarded as the most
effective agricultural market information system in the CIS, successfully managed the
transformation from a governmental service into a private service provider, attracted contract
revenue from other clients, and is poised to attain financial sustainability ­ provided MAWRPI
lives up to its commitment to finance the annual contracts for the public-good service provided
by KAMIS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In the aggregate, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The project was complex and none of
the implementing agencies except MAWRPI itself had any prior experience with Bank projects
or, for that matter, with any externally support project. Substantial learning was therefore
required, and implementation performance improved as experience was being accumulated.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

      Project design and implementation arrangements need to be tailored to the client's
      capacity, and work plans for at least the first year of all project components need to be in
      place and agreed to before the start of implementation.
      Major policy and legislative reform across multiple sectors or subsectors, which require
      prudent management of the political processes and of multiple stakeholders, should not be
      expected to be accomplished in only a few years.
      Establishing baseline and target values for key indicators are and having an effective M&E
      system are essential for measuring progress and impact.
      Proactive supervision and implementation support can overcome project design
      weaknesses.
      A multi-component project covering an entire sector of the economy can be an effective
      tool to address issues across a range of related subsectors and thereby generate important
      synergies. It also provides more flexibility than a more narrowly focused project to
      respond more quickly and readily to unforeseen new needs and requirements, by allowing
      resource reallocations, shortening decision-making processes and facilitating inter-agency
      coordination and collaboration.
      Effective donor cooperation at the country and project levels significantly improves the
      prospects for achieving development objectives by generating positive synergies,
      minimizing duplication and overlap, avoiding conflicting and/or confusing advice, and
      facilitating mutual support across projects.
      Support services for primarily poor clients, such as a rural advisory service, are unlikely to
      attain financial viability and complete self-financing in a transition economy and do
      require public funding for their public-good aspects for a considerable time.


                                               - 28 -
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None.

(b) Cofinanciers

None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

None.




                                           - 29 -
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                                  millions)
 LAND AND AGRARIAN
                                                4.01                  3.39                 85
REFORM
 RURAL ADVISORY &
                                             10.68                    7.50                 70
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
 SEED INDUSTRY
                                                7.66                  5.71                 75
DEVELOPMENT
 CROP PROTECTION/PLANT
                                                1.33                  1.12                 84
QUARANTINE
 AGRICULTURAL MARKET
                                                1.51                  1.29                 85
INFORMATION
 MAWR (PROJECT
                                                0.77                  0.90                117
IMPLEMENTATION UNIT)
 FLOOD DAMAGE REPAIR                            0.00                  2.22                 --
HPAI PREPAREDNESS                               0.00                  1.13                 --

               Total Baseline Cost           25.97                    23.26                90
Physical Contingencies                        1.23
Price Contingencies                           2.96
                Total Project Costs          30.16                    23.26
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                     0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                     0.00
        Total Financing Required             30.16                    23.26




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of Co-                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                           financing                                     Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
 International Development Association
                                       Credit                 14.98           13.39             89
(IDA)
 International Fund for Agricultural
                                       Loan                    7.92            7.51             95
Development (IFAD)




                                                 - 30 -
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(1) Land and Agrarian Reform. The project contributed substantially to the distribution of land
and non-land assets, but the land and agrarian reform process is not yet fully completed. During
project implementation 240,000 ha of agricultural land were distributed to private farming units,
increasing the total amount of land distributed from 766,000 ha in 1997 to 1,007,000 ha in 2006,
equivalent to 90.8% of the land available for distribution. ASSP support was mainly
concentrated in three oblasts: Batken, Chui and Issyk-Kul. Countrywide, these land assets were
distributed to approximately 523,000 families. Nevertheless, the distribution of land remains
incomplete; major backlogs still exist in Chui (16.6%), Issyk-Kul (5.6%) and Osh (9.8%).

                                    Table 2.1: Farm Land Distributed (ha)
                      Total       Land not for Distribution                 Land for Distribution by Shares
                                                                                                Land
                                                Seed and            Land                     distributed
                                                Breeding         Distributed Land not yet under ASSP
                      '000 ha        LRF         Farms            by Shares   Distributed (1998-2006)          Total
1997
  Batken /a                   0           0             0                0             0                             0
  Jalalabad             191,464      47,836            27          134,116         9,485                       143,601
  Issyk-Kul             186,258      38,206        24,370          123,682             0                       123,682
  Naryn                 178,859      37,831        47,000           94,028             0                        94,028
  Osh                   360,225      90,758        10,467          233,054        25,946                       259,000
  Talas                 134,101      26,871        17,173           90,057             0                        90,057
  Chui                  447,610     111,909        59,603           91,534       184,564                       276,098
Total                1,498,517      353,438       158,613          766,471       219,995                       986,466
2006
  Batken                 86,031      20,902           314            62,022        2,793        35,886           64,815
  Jalalabad             186,611      42,813         5,305           134,262        4,231                        138,493
  Issyk-Kul             192,195      33,956         5,273           144,427        8,539        17,344          152,966
  Naryn                 142,320      27,864        20,974            93,482            0                         93,482
  Osh                   244,405      56,691         5,048           164,757       17,909                        182,666
  Talas                 113,493      27,017         2,534            81,010        2,932                         83,942
  Chui                  498,148      82,843        23,672           326,502       65,131        18,542          391,633
Total                1,463,203      292,086        63,120         1,006,462      101,535        71,772        1,107,997
/a Included with Osh.


By the end of 2006, a total of 531,818 permanent land share certificates with parcel plans, and
with parcels demarcated on the ground, had been issued. The ASSP funded the issuance and
registration of 30,355 of these certificates, mainly in Chui and Issyk-Kul. Cadastral works for
the determination of the physical boundaries of parcels (mainly in Chui and Issyk-Kul, where
there was the most resistance to restructuring) were financed for 179,621 plots for which the new
owners had previously received certificates that lacked sketch maps or had maps that did not
correspond to a defined parcel on the ground. In addition, 10,148 villagers who received legal
assistance under the project to settle conflicts over land shares successfully obtained land plots as
a result of the assistance provided to them.

The project directly supported the reorganization and distribution of land and property shares
(worth 95.7 million Som) in 20 of the 22 remaining former state and collective farms that had not


                                                        - 31 -
yet been restructured. In addition, the project and the CLARs supported and facilitated the
privatization (not yet fully completed) of the former state seed and breeding farms. Project
activities focused mainly on information campaigns and on training conducted on each collective
farm to raise awareness about land reform and to initiate the reorganization and asset distribution
process. The reorganization of these 20 state and collective farms led to the creation of 905 new
peasant farms, joint stock companies, agricultural cooperatives and other types of farming
enterprises. Private farm management arrangements are now the general norm throughout the
country.

The project also established policies and procedures for land auctions as well as the legal
framework for the development of the rural land market. Project staff actively contributed to the
development of the legal basis in the area of land management, including: (i) guidelines and
regulations for lease, management and use of LRF land and pastures, which were subsequently
adopted by Parliament; (ii) changes in the Land Code, (iii) in the mortgage law, (iv) in the law on
management of agriculture land and (v) in fourteen associated by-laws. Training materials on
the land and agrarian reform were developed, a collection of fifty of the most important legal
documents was compiled and published (1991-2006), and a compendium of answers to
"Frequently Asked Question" was put together, based on actual questions received and handled
by the LAR team.

The materials collected and developed were utilized for training and publicly disseminated to
improve access to critical information on issues of the land and agrarian reform and to raise
awareness on legal rights ­ particularly for women. Leaders of 100 aiyl okmotus were trained,
1,981 seminars with approximately 83,520 participants were held across all oblasts, jointly with
RAS and ARIS. Information sheets on 88 different topics were published, and LAR information
was disseminated through some 165 newspaper articles, 217 radio programs, and 81 TV video
spots. Approximately 5,000 copies of the weekly newspaper (81 issues) and 1,000 copies of the
monthly journal `AgroPress' (20 issues) were published and disseminated.

With the legal basis for land market development now established, the number of auctions, sales,
mortgages and leases of agricultural is gradually increasing. Three pilot auctions were carried
out before the project start, but the moratorium on sales and auctions in effect from 1999 until
2001 prevented the sale and lease of land. Thereafter, 10 land auctions of LRF land were held
between 2001 and 2007 (covering 15,101 ha), but the vast majority of LRF land has been leased
to farmers. Annually, between 61 and 71% of the available LRF land has been leased, with an
average of about 8,600 lease contracts annually and tenures of up to 5 years. The number of
sales, leases and mortgages has increased significantly over the last few years. In 2007, 48,140
sales, 4,666 leases and 43,324 mortgages were registered; however, the majority of mortgage
loans remains concentrated in urban areas, and many land transactions in the rural areas are
informal and not registered.

(2) Rural Advisory and Development Services (RADS). The Rural Advisory and Development
Services Foundation (RADSF) was established in 1998 as a non-governmental organization with
project support (IFAD-financed) and the Swiss Government. It had a Secretariat and seven
subordinate oblast centers and was governed by a National Steering Council (NSC) and by oblast
steering councils comprised of representatives of farmers' organizations. In 2001, RADSF was


                                               - 32 -
restructured and renamed Rural Advisory Service Foundation (RASF), with the NSC as its
supreme governing body. Responsibility for service delivery was decentralized to the oblast
level. The previous RADSF Secretariat was divided into the Rural Advisory Service
Coordination Office (RASCO) and an Advisory Training Centre (ATC). The ATC became
responsible for the development of training material and training of trainers, while RASCO
assumed the functions of a secretariat for the NSC.

In 2005-2006 the system underwent further institutional change, with the seven oblast RASs
registering as autonomous public membership associations, each governed by a council. The
seven regional RASs then initiated the establishment of an Association of Rural Advisory
Services (ARAS) at the national level, but its legal registration was never completed. RASCO
functioned as the Secretariat to the National Steering Council. The ATC became a legally
autonomous institution, governed by a council comprising its primary clients, the managers of
the seven regional RASs. At the end of the ASSP, the RAS system consisted, thus, of seven
oblast-level RASs, the ATC, and the ARAS with its RASCO.

The RASs deliver a wide range of rural development services, including: crop and livestock
production training, demonstrations, consultancy and advisory services, information
dissemination, facilitation of livestock purchases and artificial insemination, support for
establishment of small agribusinesses for seed supply or machinery contracting, handicraft
development, farm business planning, facilitating access to credit, and establishment of savings
groups. The RAS network is independent of Government and has been a critical source of
information for farmers, most of whom became farmers only after Independence.

                        Table 2.2: Coverage Indicators of the Rural Advisory Services
Indicator                                Unit    1999    2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007             Total
Villages in KR                           No       1,657   1,663   1,663   1,628   1,708   1,778   1,816   1,815   1,835            1,835
Villages served by RAS                   No         901   1,060     901     727     787     854     930     992     978              978
Village Coverage                          %          54      64      54      45      46      48      51      55      53                53
Rural Households                         No     523,087 540,098 529,988 559,922 611,638 654,587 697,273 700,776 714,785          714,785
Rural Households served by RAS           No      21,673 30,561 35,272 34,616 24,432 36,050 41,752 51,513 42,933                   42,933
Rural Household Coverage                  %           4       6       7       6       4       6       6       7       6                 6
Groups Formed and Supported              No       1,084   1,836   2,256   2,050   2,135   2,434   2,690   2,853   2,197            2,197
  newly created                          No         892     988     936     998   1,064   1,193   1,050   1,386     888              888
  existing groups                        No           0     737   1,190   1,052   1,071   1,241   1,640   1,467   1,309            1,309
  UNDP groups                            No         192     285     456     183     139      87      25      20      69                69

Training Courses Conducted               No      1,358    3,573    5,234    9,237   13,427    7,936    9,902    8,875    4,506     64,048
Participants of Training Courses         No     18,607   40,867   47,873   87,304   84,639   63,356   79,292   74,717   35,079    531,734
  of which Women                         No      7,998   16,975   19,621   48,302   43,811   34,885   41,791   41,388   17,265    272,036
  of which Women                         %          43       42       41       55       52       55       53       55       49         51
  of which Members of UNDP groups        No        900    1,339    1,563    3,130    2,182      592      142      106      341     10,295
Demonstrations Conducted                 No        180      555    1,140    1,485      795      936    1,017    1,111      390      7,609
Adaptive Research (JAC/JDT)              No                                   309      188      236      166      209       70      1,178
Farmer Field Schools (FFS) established   No          0       0        0         0        4       14       40       18       20         96
Farmers trained in FFS                   No          0       0        0         0      100      284      673      370      300      1,727

Regular RAS Clients                      No     18,106   23,831   20,011 19,455 18,828 22,075 25,227 27,764             20,849    20,849
  of which with Women                    No      4,020    7,421    6,951   6,512   9,127   9,056 10,493 14,282           9,829      9,829
  of which with Women                    %          22       31       35      33      48      41      42      51            47         47
Client Contacts                          No     58,189   73,200   66,786 111,420 137,159 154,155 184,388 187,368        98,808 1,071,473
  of which with Women                    No     13,749   27,793   25,412 42,644 57,626 61,191 86,490 91,838             41,771    448,514
  of which with Women                    %          24       38       38      38      42      40      47      49            42         42




                                                            - 33 -
The RAS system is the only extension service provider with a nationwide network and
substantial outreach, working in 55% of all villages, directly reaching 42,933 of the 0.7 million
rural households (6.0%)3 and 21% of all farms. RAS formed, in many cases jointly with the
UNDP, and then supported a total of 2,197 groups and delivered 64,048 training courses with
531,734 participants. Approximately 7,600 demonstrations, 1,178 adaptive research projects,
and 96 Farmer Field Schools providing training for 1,727 farmers were carried out. By the end
of the project, RAS had 20,848 permanent clients, and 1,071,473 direct contacts with clients
were recorded since the project start. Particularly noteworthy is the much improved access to
extension services for women, who accounted for 51.2% of the training participants, 47.1% of
the RAS clients and 41.9% of the client contacts.

The financial viability of the RASs remains uncertain, as long as GOK and MAWRPI do not yet
pay for the important public good aspect of rural advisory services. Revenue from paying clients
has risen measurably over the past few years, and non-donor funding now averages about 40% of
the regional RASs' expenses. Nevertheless, longer-term sustainability will require increasing
outreach as well as further institutional reform that simultaneously strengthens the system's
responsiveness to its clients and its ability to generate revenue from them. At the same time,
GOK and MAWRPI will need to acknowledge the important public-good aspect of effective
advisory services for the predominantly poor farming households and provide a budgetary
contribution for it on an annual contract basis.

Against this background, the joint SDC/IDA/IFAD review undertaken in December 2006
identified the challenges faced by the RASs: (i) increase client contributions to payments for
services; (ii) increase coverage while reducing costs and improving quality; (iii) improve
responsiveness to clients; (iv) reduce costs by rationalizing staff; (v) improve quality and cost
efficiency by exposing the RASs to competition; (vi) transfer control for key decisions such as
staffing from oblast councils to managers; (vii) abolish redundant national level bodies RASCO
and NSC; and (viii) improve technical and business management support to RASs from ATC.

While the effectiveness of RAS in terms of technology adoption rates and impact at the farm
level has not been systematically monitored, a sample survey of farmers provided useful
indications. RAS is the most important source of extension information, and about 80% of the
RAS members and 65% of the RAS clients consider the quality of its services to be good (or
even excellent), and 80% stated that they meet their needs. At the same time, 62% of the
respondents noted that RAS services need to be improved and be made more responsive to client
needs. Some of the advice provided is considered too basic and repetitive and does not respond
to the specific needs of the farmers. Access to RAS services also needs to be improved, with
clients citing a notable focus on middle-income farmers, leaving the really poor underserved.
Overall, the farmers interviewed noted that they had improved their knowledge of crop and
animal diseases and that they had achieved yield increases based on the advice received.



3
    The increasing fragmentation of rural households, as larger family units are being replaced by smaller nuclear
    households, disguises to some extent the significant increase in the number of households contacted each year
    when this is expressed in percentage terms.


                                                       - 34 -
Farm Development Fund. The project provided critically needed access to credit for the newly
emerging small farmers, but it could have supported more beneficiaries if the funds provided to
KAFC had been more effectively, fully and continuously utilized. Of the two instruments for the
provision of rural credit initially planned under the project, only the Farm Development Fund
was established, while the pilot Financial Advisory Services (FAS) facility was canceled and its
funds were rolled into the FDF. A total of 4,574 groups of small farmers with 33,052 members
received loans from the FDF, with an average group loan size of approximately Som 10,624
(between US$250 and US$300, depending on the exchange rate prevailing at the time). These
groups were formed by both UNDP and RAS, which supported them in preparing business plans
and loan applications.

                                                                     Table 2.3: FDF Operation 1997-2007
                                                                                 (Som, unless otherwise indicated)

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Annual Avarage
                                                                                                                                                                                           Cumulative at      at Project
                                                 1999             2000                 2001             2002         2003          2004           2005          2006          2007        Project Closing      Closing
Funds provided for the FDF                     11,870,460       69,672,067           69,672,067       69,672,067   69,672,067    98,049,697     101,726,035   101,726,035   101,726,035     101,726,035       77,087,392
Credits issued for the period                  12,485,758       48,168,060           58,926,280       36,188,000   17,734,000    30,148,000      36,748,000    70,716,000    40,021,000     351,135,098       39,015,011
Repayment of principal for the period           2,008,547       11,216,812           31,439,156       37,815,375   49,526,821    32,971,748      20,586,049    34,882,462    53,431,861     273,878,831       30,430,981
Outstanding principal amounts                  10,477,211       47,428,459           74,915,583       73,288,208   41,495,387    38,671,639      55,784,183    91,732,183    78,307,616      78,307,616       56,900,052
of which:
    on balance sheet                           10,477,211       47,428,459         74,182,041       69,719,755     36,264,180    35,858,619      53,417,738    91,576,923    78,174,555      78,174,555       55,233,276
    out of balance sheet                                    -                -        733,542        3,568,453      5,231,207     2,813,020       2,366,444       155,260       133,061         133,061        1,666,776
Funds utilization rate, %                            88%              68%               108%             105%            60%           39%             55%           90%           77%             77%              77%
FDF funds still available                       1,393,249       22,243,608       - 5,243,516      - 3,616,141      28,176,680    59,378,058      45,941,852     9,993,852    23,418,419      23,418,419       20,187,340
Balance in the FDF revolving account                                                                                                                 73,852       140,287           -               -             23,793
FDF funds not used for group lending            1,393,249       22,243,608       -    5,243,516   -    3,616,141   28,176,680    59,378,058      45,868,000     9,853,565    23,418,419      23,418,419       20,163,547
Groups (No.)                                          352              763                  785              542          239           357             426           733           377           4,574              508
Groups, cumulative (No.)                              352            1,115                1,900            2,442        2,681         3,038           3,464         4,197         4,574           4,574            2,640
Group members (No.)                                 2,464            5,341                5,495            3,794        1,673         2,367           2,499         6,159         3,260          33,052            3,672
Group members, cumulative (No.)                     2,464            7,805               13,300           17,094       18,767        21,134          23,633        29,792        33,052          33,052           18,560
Average credit per group                           35,471           63,130               75,065           66,768       74,201        84,448          86,263        96,475       106,156          76,768           76,442
Average credit per member                           5,067            9,019               10,724            9,538       10,600        12,737          14,705        11,482        12,276          10,624           10,683
Repayment rates, %                                  100%              98%                  96%              97%          95%           99%             99%           99%          100%            100%              98%



FDF lending volume fell short, however, of the funding made available under the project. The
utilization rate of the funds provided to KAFC averaged only 77% over the lifetime of the project
and was as low as 39% in 2004 (see graph below).


                                                                             FDF Funds versus Lending Volume

                                         120
                                         100
                         Million S om 




                                          80
                                          60
                                          40
                                          20
                                         
                                                   1999           2000               2001             2002         2003         2004          2005      2006       2007
                                                                                             F D F  F unds                      L ending  Volum e




                                                                                                            - 35 -
There were several causes for this less than satisfactory lending performance. First, KAFC
failure to develop an acceptable group lending blocked new IFAD disbursements into the FDF
and therefore restricted lending to reflow funds until the manual was prepared and accepted. A
Presidential Decree in early 2001 imposing a ceiling on interest rates that would have rapidly
eroded the FDF capital base forced the Bank and IFAD to impose a moratorium on FDF lending
until this decision was rescinded. This was followed by the imposition by MOF of a ceiling on
ASSP disbursements, which again affected lending volumes. When IFAD provided additional
funds through a reallocation in 2002, MOF blocked their utilization until early in 2004 by
demanding that these funds not be treated as a capital infusion into KAFC, but as a loan from
MOF. A further problem arose when KAFC failed to restore FDF reflows to the facility's
revolving fund and diverted them instead to other uses. FDF lending therefore remained far
below its potential levels from 2002 through the end of 2005. Only in 2006, when most of the
diverted funds had been restored, did it again reach satisfactory levels, but even then it amounted
to only 90% of the available loanable funds.

The FDF targeting mechanism, eligibility criteria and loan conditions ensured that credit was
targeted towards the poorest and most vulnerable. Firstly, target villages were selected by
UNDP, based on poverty levels, giving priority to the poorest and most remote. Secondly, only
groups whose members' income did not exceed US$20 per month (at the time of group
formation) were eligible to receive FDF loans. Thirdly, since the program was intended to
support farmers who could not access other credit sources due to lack of collateral, the FDF
loans were based on group-based social collateral. Unfortunately, this targeting mechanism was
for some time rendered ineffective when KAFC unilaterally introduced physical collateral
requirements. The extent of the negative impact can, however, not be quantified.

(3) Seed Industry Development. The legal and institutional structure for the seed sector has been
developed, and the Kyrgyz Republic has become a member of the main bodies governing the
international seed trade (ISTA, UPOV, ISF, OECD) ­ the only Central Asian country to achieve
this. Significant productivity gains have been achieved through the development and distribution
of improved varieties and seeds, but have not yet had widespread impact. Entry into seed
production remains restricted by MAWRPI procedures, which provide considerable scope for
rent seeking by farms that obtain MAWRPI certification as seed farms. Nevertheless, the better
seed farms have improved their management and marketing skills, are selling a reasonable
proportion for domestic use, and are developing arrangements with foreign companies for seed
production and export.

All investments and activities planned in support of germplasm acquisition, variety development,
seed breeding, testing and certification were undertaken and completed. The CRI and LPRI
facilities were renovated and modernized, laboratory and field equipment provided, and institute
and seed farm specialists trained in modern methods of seed selection and breeding. A
substantial amount of germplasm was acquired for testing, and a small number of new varieties
have been developed and submitted for official variety testing (see Table 2.4).




                                               - 36 -
                     Table 2.4: Germplasm Acquisition and Variety Development

                                    Germplasm          Varieties       Varieties Officially
                  Crop               Analyzed          Registered            Tested

                  Wheat               >10,000                 4                 1
                  Barley               6387                   3                 5
                  Maize                 111                   1                 -
                  Alfalfa               204                   1                 -
                  Sainfoin               43                   1                 3
                  Soybean                24                   2                 -


The newly developed varieties are definite improvements over those traditionally grown, and not
only with respect to yields. For the first time in 20 years a facultative wheat variety (`Jamin') is
now available which can be planted both in spring and winter. Another new wheat variety
(`Kairak') can be cultivated on non-irrigated land, as can two of the new barley varieties,
`Kylym' and `Bestam'. `Bestam' is also highly resistant to lodging and `Kylym' to powdery
mildew and helminthosporosis. Particularly noteworthy was the project's introduction of
soybean, which was not grown in the country before; yields have been very high, and a soybean
processing industry has developed. Critical in the area of fodder production have been the new
varieties of sainfoin and alfalfa, for which no seed development had been undertaken since 1963
and 1987, respectively. The quantities of cereal and fodder super elite and elite produced under
the project are summarized in Table 2.5.

             Table 2.5: Production and Yield Gains of new Cereal and Fodder Varieties
                                               Primary Seed Super Elite/Elite         Yield Increase over
           Crop                  Variety        Production Seed Production                standard /a
                                                 Area (ha)      (tons)              tons/ha        (%
 Wheat
 Facultative Winter Wheat Jamin                      0.5                48.0          0.39        6.14
 Winter Wheat                  Asyl                  0.5                42.0          0.94       14.80
 Winter Wheat                  Adyr                  0.5                60.0          0.36        5.67
 Winter Wheat                  Kairak                0.5                  -           0.79       12.44
 Barley
 Spring Barley                 Kylym                 1.5                  -           0.25        4.08
 Spring Barley                 Bestam                1.5                  -           0.30        4.90
 Winter Barley                 Gaukhar               1.5                  -           0.56        9.15
 Soybean
 Soybean                       Amantai 7709           2                  2.4          1.26       78.75
 Soybean                       Amantai Ak-Jol         43                59.0          1.21       75.63
 Alfalfa
 Alfalfa                       Manas                  8                  0.5           -            -
 Alfalfa                       Bereke                 20                 1.6           -            -
 Sainfoin
 Sainfoin                      Belek                  81                 1.5          2.10
 /a Standard varieties, e.g. Intensivnaya (winter wheat), Ardak (barley).

Project support for the development of private seed farms was redesigned very early on to assist
more farms and to minimize the financial burden on them that the initially intended provision of
capital equipment on credit terms would have posed. Project support for commercial seed


                                                     - 37 -
production was therefore provided through two main channels: (i) the distribution of elite seed
for multiplication to a large number of private farms (see Table 2.6) and (later) to Community
Seed Funds, and (ii) the provision of credit for essential seed cleaning equipment.4 30 of the 158
then registered seed farms expressed interest in participating in the credit program for the
purchase of seed processing equipment, and a total of 29 seed dressers and bag sewing machines
were procured and distributed in 2004 on credit terms (2 years grace, 7 years repayment, interest
1% above inflation).

            Table 2.6: Elite Seed Provided for Multiplication to Commercial Seed Farms

                          Amount of Seed     Number of
                             (tons)           Varieties    Number of Farms     Area Sown (ha)
        Wheat                    20              3                 7                 3300
        Soy                     52.3             2                 1                  411
        Potato                  200              4                17                   60
        Safflower                20              1                26             insignificant
        Barley                  140              1                26                   na
        Carrot                 160*              1           not multiplied     not multiplied
        Sunflower              4105*             1                17                   na
        Winter Oil Rape         150*             3                na                   na
        *=kg

The Seed Association of Kyrgyzstan (SAK), representing the commercial seed producers, has
become increasingly more active and effective in representing its approximately 175 members.
SAK activities have included market promotion; a regular program of field days and variety
demonstrations; monitoring seed production and disseminating information on seed availability;
and lobbying on behalf of its members. The SAK is a full member of the International Seed
Federation (ISF) and played a leading role in the establishment of the Central Asia Seed
Association in 2006. SAK activities have helped raise the profile of Kyrgyzstan seed producers
and established a number of potentially valuable contacts with international seed producers.

The project also helped improve seed availability by establishing and supporting Community
Seed Funds (CSFs), which also played an important role in supporting poor farmers affected by
the 1999 drought and the early snow in 2000 and in assisting the victims of the 2003 floods along
the lower Kugart River. Introduced in 2001 on a pilot basis, the program provided institutional
support to poor farmers for forming community-based self-help groups, developed regulations
and charters for their legal registration, distributed high-quality seeds to them, and provided
agronomic advice. Seeds provided are returned (in cash or in kind) each year, with a 25% "fee"
added, and used the next year to service even more farmers. 75 legally registered CSFs were
established under the project, and approximately 26,000 poor farmers have been direct
beneficiaries of the program. 43 CSFs continue to expand and 16 are stable, while 16 were, at
the end of the project, found to have declined. A GTZ project "adopted" a number of the more
dynamic CSFs, assisting them to develop into multi-purpose farmer cooperatives. In 2006 the
CSFs formed a National Federation to provide support, liaise with public institutions and donors,
and generally promote the interests of its member CSFs. To finance its operations, the members
agreed to contribute an annual fee equivalent to 5% of the harvested seed.

4
    Heavy machinery was provided to a number of seed farms by MAWRPI through a Japanese commodity grant.


                                                  - 38 -
                       Table 2.7: Seeds Provided to Community Seed Funds
                             2001       2002      2003      2004       2005      2006       2007        Total
Winter Wheat
  Farmers Benefiting           1709       1623       1186      1216       760        658                 7,152
  Seed Distributed (tons)        889      1063        952       964       910        712                 5,490
  Area Sown (ha)               4,453     4,792      3,074     3,904     3,337      2,453                22,013
Spring Wheat
  Farmers Benefiting                                   34       49          77       102       120         382
  Seed Distributed (tons)                               9       25        47,5        76       119         229
  Area Sown (ha)                                       35     107,3        179       303       475         992
Spring Barley
  Farmers Benefiting                       430        526       480      399         353       345       2533
  Seed Distributed (tons)                  200        246       266     240,3        167       164        1042
  Area Sown (ha)                           975      1,203     1,148       959        680       654       5,618
Sunflower
  Farmers Benefiting                                  289      1172       679        456       410       3006
  Seed Distributed (tons)                               6        17      19,3          6         6          35
  Area Sown (ha)                                      433     1,398     1,505        402       452       4,189
Sugar Beet
  Farmers Benefiting                       564        518       400       227        207        96       2012
  Seed Distributed (tons)                    5          5         4         3          2         1          20
  Area Sown (ha)                           835        798       708       443        415       220       3,418
Soybean
  Farmers Benefiting                                   82       104         29        10           12      237
  Seed Distributed (tons)                              35        31          4         2            3       74
  Area Sown (ha)                                      412       390         40        25           31      898
Potato
  Farmers Benefiting                                  526      1008       962        994       629       4119
  Seed Distributed (tons)                              76       826       729        793       602       3026
  Area Sown (ha)                                       28       305       246        226       201       1,006
Corn
  Farmers Benefiting                       675        691     4725        129        134       110       6464
  Seed Distributed (tons)                   43         60        84        10          8         6         211
  Area Sown (ha)                         1,718      2,407     3,352       394        336       237       8,444
Cotton
  Seed Distributed (tons)                                        14         15        11           11       51

                            Table 2.8: Status of CSFs at the end of 2006
                                                  Assessment of Progress
                        Registered      Growing Growing Stable     Declining               Failing
         Oblast           CSFs           Fast    Slowly             Slowly
         Batken             4               -       -       1         3 /a                    -
         Jalalabad          8               -       4      4 /a        -                      -
         Issyk-Kul          9              3        2       3          1                      -
         Naryn             10              4        -       1        5 /b                     -
         Osh                13              1       4      3 /a       5 /a                    -
         Talas              10              9       1       -          -                      -
         Chui               21              8       7      4 /a       2 /a                    -
         Total             75              25      18      16         16                      -
         %                 100            33.3     24     21.3       21.3                     -
         /a Heat and drought in spring and summer 2006 suppressed winter wheat yields.
         /b Frost and inadequate storage negatively affected seed potatoes, and drought affected
         spring barley yields.




                                                   - 39 -
The third main thrust of project support in the seed sector focused on (i) strengthening
MAWRPI's regulatory services for variety testing and seed certification, (ii) establishing a
suitable legal framework, and (iii) publishing and disseminating variety testing results and seed
industry information. Most of the activities and investments to be financed were undertaken and
completed, although often with much delay.

Seed Testing. The rehabilitation of the central and three regional (Suzak, Ak-Suu, Kara-Suu)
RSSI laboratories was completed in 2002; the main cause of delay was the difficult process of
acquiring a suitable building for the central laboratory. As soon as the rehabilitation of the
central laboratory was completed and the office and laboratory equipment purchased and
installed, the RSSI became a provisional member of ISTA in 2003. Full ISTA accreditation,
allowing the issuance of orange certificates required for the export of seeds, was obtained in
January 2006. The seed certification system was further strengthened through the preparation
and adoption of modern standards and regulations. A number of new standards on cereal crops,
fruits, berries and sugar beet have been developed and published. Regulations for cereal and
sugar beet certification/cultivation have been developed, and the weed (420 samples) and forage
crop (80 samples) collections have been expanded and updated. In 2006, the cotton seed
inspectorate and cotton seed laboratory in Kara-Suu, previously a separate agency, were placed
under the RSSI; their facilities have been refurbished and adequately equipped. Additional
SIDA support is planned to develop modern standards for cotton inspection and testing and in
developing improved operational procedures.

Variety Testing and Trials. The capacity to undertake variety testing was improved through the
rehabilitation of buildings, purchase of laboratory equipment and staff training. The central
laboratory and office buildings of the SCVT as well as four regional sites (Sokuluk, Bakai-Ata,
Ak-Suu, Kara-Suu) were refurbished and equipped with office equipment and with the field
equipment required to carry out variety testing. The SCVT is now capable of utilizing
international experimental and data analysis procedures and has introduced tests for DUS and
VCU. These tests are in accordance with the UPOV requirements, of which the Kyrgyz
Republic became a member in 2000. A substantial number of variety trials were conducted at
four sites in different parts of the country. Information about varieties and hybrids permitted in
the country is disseminated annually, and workshops on new varieties and on cultivation
technologies are held for seed farm managers, specialists, farmers, traders and students at the
regional variety testing sites; 56 field days were conducted during project implementation, with
approximately 3,000 participants.

TA and Training. The technical and organizational capacity for seed certification and variety
testing was further strengthened through technical assistance and training of key staff. A total of
126 staff of the Seed Inspectorate and 22 of the SCVT received in-country training, while 12 and
6, respectively, participated in international training courses. In addition 10 staff of the RSSI and
3 of the SCVT were trained to work in the new laboratories, and international consultants
delivered training at both institutions.

Legal Framework. New and adequate laws and regulations governing seeds and plant breeders'
rights have been adopted, albeit after a long process that lasted until the end of 2006. The
necessary amendments to the 1998 Plant Variety Protection Law were finally adopted in 2005,


                                                - 40 -
the changes to the law `On Legal Protection of Selection Achievements (Plant Breeders Rights)'
in 2005, and those to the Seed Law (conforming with ISTA, OECD and other international
requirements) became effective at the end of 2006. Regulations concerning the Republican
Interdepartmental Seed Council were developed and approved in 2004, and `Seed Farm
Regulations' were introduced in 2006. The project also supported the preparation of the
application for membership in the OECD Seeds Scheme, which has been submitted. More than
20 new crop varieties have been patented so far, but the protection of plant breeders' right remains an
issue because the royalty collection system is still weak.

(4) Crop Protection and Plant Quarantine. An appropriate legal framework for the regulation
of pesticide use has been established under the project, adequate regulatory structures have been
put in place, and a pesticide registration system has been developed and implemented. The law
on `Chemicalization and Plant Protection' was adopted in 1999. An interagency commission for
testing and registration of pesticides was established in 1998 and has developed and approved a
list of pesticides and agrochemicals permitted in the Kyrgyz Republic. A number of relevant
regulations were put into effect, including on: (i) testing and registration of pesticides and agro-
chemicals, (ii) sanitary standard content for residual pesticides in soil, water and the air, (iii)
supervision and control of safe use of pesticides and agrochemical, phyto-sanitary and
agrochemical conditions, and (iv) safe use, storage and warehousing of pesticides in agricultural
production. These have been complemented by four regulations developed by the State
Committee on Standards and Meteorology, including: (i) rules and procedures for certification of
pesticides and chemical fertilizers, (ii) guidelines and procedures for certification of organic
fertilizer use, (iii) temporary procedures for certification of fields and greenhouses, and (iv)
guidelines for the development and use of technical regulations on chemicalization and plant
protection.

Beginning in 2003 the project supported, with crucial TA provided by the FAO, the introduction
of Integrated Production Management (IPM) in the country, beginning with a program of
training-of-trainers and subsequently expanded to a series of farmer field schools (FFS) and to
cover an increasingly broader range of crops. MAWRPI's Department for Chemicalization and
Crop Protection (DCCP) and the ATC jointly developed a handbook on IPM as well a training
program for trainers and farmers which is utilized in the FFS. 75 FFS were organized, with
trainers and farmer groups working together throughout the season in an interactive fashion. A
solid cadre of experienced master trainers now exists, ready to disseminate IPM know-how
further; they have formed several professional associations in different parts of the country. The
program addresses Integrated Production Management (e.g., for cotton, potatoes, vegetables,
etc.), rather than merely Integrated Pest Management. It is coordinated by the ATC, which also
publishes a very useful monthly newsletter describing progress and activities, and has been
implemented in a number of partnerships, including with the regional RASs, the Swiss-funded
Agricultural Vocational Education Project, a number of NGOs, and several local agro-processing
companies. The participation of processing industries is a particularly positive enhancement of
the program. One company has a contract with farmer participants to supply vegetables, and the
company is now funding an FFS trainer. Another processor has contracted an FFS group to
supply tomatoes and is providing pre-season financing for the purchase of seeds and other inputs.
Farmers participating in IPM Farmer Field Schools and utilizing the IPM approach substantially
increased their gross margins per hectare.


                                                 - 41 -
             Table 2.9: Comparison between Integrated Production Management (IPM)
                                   and Farmers' Practice (FP)

                                Tomatoes /a        Cucumbers /a            Potatoes /b         Cotton /c
                              IPM         FP      IPM          FP       IPM         FP      IPM        FP
Production cost (Som/ha) 60,500 36,750           32,750      17,200    71,700     45,448   20,344    21,648
Yield (kg/ha)                 44.8 t    27.7 t   18.8 t       8.6 t    29.3 t     17.9 t   3.68 t    3.16 t
Output price (Som/kg)           4          4        6           6         4          4       14        14
Income (Som/ha)              179,400 110,800 112,800 51,600           117,148 71,700       51,520    44,240
Gross margin (Som/ha) 118,900 74,050             80,050      34,400    45,448      9,369   31,176    22,592
/a Tomatoes and cucumbers, Kyzyl Kia, based on 200 m2 plots.
/b Potatoes, Naryn, based on 43 m2 plots.
/c Cotton, Jalalabad, based on 200 m2 plots.

The central toxicology laboratory near Bishkek and the regional laboratory in Osh were
rehabilitated and equipped to internationally recognized standards to monitor implementation of
the pesticide regulations. Laboratory and DCCP staff were trained abroad on critical aspects of
pesticide use and in operating modern laboratory equipment. However, the failure of MAWRPI
to budget adequately for laboratory maintenance and operating costs has effectively shut down
operations since 2005, and the majority of laboratory specialists have left. MAWRPI has assured
the Bank that the situation will be rectified, but at present the toxicology laboratory's future is in
serious doubt.

The investments foreseen and activities to be financed in the plant quarantine subcomponent
were completed. The rehabilitation of the Plant Quarantine Inspection laboratory in Bishkek and
of the regional laboratory in Osh were completed in 2002, and all necessary equipment was
purchased and installed. The long delay experienced in Bishkek was the result of lengthy
investigations into the earthquake safety of the building. Plant quarantine procedures have been
developed, including a handbook on risk criteria analysis, a glossary of phyto-sanitary
terminology and an updated list of quarantine objects. Staff received specialized training both
internationally and locally. The Law on Plant Quarantine was amended to conform with
international standards and regulations, thereby facilitating Kyrgyzstan's participation in the
European Plant Protection Organization (EPPO) and accession to the International Plant
Protection Convention (IPPC). Unfortunately, MAWRPI has failed since 2006 to provide the
necessary budgetary resources for operating the laboratories. The decision to remove laboratory
specialists from the list of state employees resulted in the departure of almost all of them. In the
spring of 2008, when last visited by a Bank team, there were no laboratory activities at all.

(5) Agricultural Market Information. The Kyrgyz Agricultural Market Information Service,
(KAMIS) has been fully developed and is operational in all oblasts of the country. Seven oblast
offices were established and equipped in 1998, and they remain fully functional, with well
qualified and motivated staff, 14 of whom received training under the project. The service was
developed as a MAWRPI service on the basis of a small pilot project initially supported by the
British Know-How Fund. From the very beginning, the information collected, analyzed and
disseminated was of high quality, and KAMIS became recognized as one of the best in the entire
CIS. Its information benefits farmers, traders, processors and policy-makers, disseminated
through multiple news media (7 TV programs, 9 radio programs, 15 newspapers) as well as by
means of a weekly bulletin and weekly information sheets that are posted in public places


                                                     - 42 -
throughout the entire country. This basic market information is of particular benefit to small
farmers, who thereby have an opportunity to see input and product prices of relevance for their
own operations. Specialized and more detailed market analyses are provided to commercial
clients under fee-based contracts. KAMIS also supplies market information and analyses to
government bodies, external aid agencies and projects. On average, 70 analytical reviews and/or
information requests on market dynamics are provided to public sector institutions each year.
KAMIS information is also available on its own and on two other web-sites that are continually
updated, as well as via SMS on mobile phones. Its weekly bulletin `Bazar Tamrin' contains, in
addition to market prices, agricultural news and practical farming advice, with contributions
provided also by other ASSP-supported institutions such as RAS.

The range and depth of the information collected and disseminated are extensive, reflecting the
needs of the various audiences. KAMIS collects information on more than 500 types and grades
of commodities in 15 markets throughout the country (covering wholesale, retail and farmgate
prices); prices in neighboring countries are also provided. Prices are published for different
varieties and grades of major products, including the lowest, highest and average prices of all
goods. For particularly important products prices are differentiated by quality, variety and size.

Initially KAMIS was governed by a steering group with representatives of several other public
institutions that contributed information to the service: the National Statistics Commission, the
Anti-Monopoly Commission, and RADSF. This became increasingly unnecessary as KAMIS
matured and its own information gathering made inputs from others redundant. Since KAMIS
also suffered from the repeated shortfalls and delayed provision of GOK counterpart funding and
its initial inability to generate and retain revenues of its own, it was agreed in 2003 to transform
it into a private company that would operate under contract to MAWRPI. This allowed KAMIS'
management to charge for services rendered, but simultaneously forced it to align its
expenditures with its revenues. Since then, GOK funding for the public-good information
service provided by KAMIS has been provided through annual contracts between MAWRPI and
KAMIS. Revenue from services provided to other private and institutional clients in 2007
amounted to about 30% of the total.

(6) Flood Damage Repair and Rehabilitation. All activities, including the reconstruction of the
embankments and check dams, the de-silting of the river bed, and the development of the
siltation and flood model, were satisfactorily completed. 184,000 m3 of silt were cleaned from
the bed of the lower Kugart River. Both embankments (3.1 km on the right bank and 2.7 km on
the left bank) were reconstructed and strengthened. 51,600 m3 of excavations, 119,400 m3 of
embankments, 59,900 m2 of slants and 69,900 m3 of stone timbering were undertaken and 91,756
m2 of Reno mattresses put in place. A computer simulation model of the siltation and wash-out
process of the Kugart river bed was developed, allowing adequate flood risk and siltation
analysis. By providing this critically needed emergency assistance, the project significantly
increased the safety of the communities living in the area and eliminated the need for
resettlement and the human hardship and economic costs associated with resettlement. Two
large communities, with a combined population of 23,182 inhabitants, with 3,559 houses, 957 ha
of agricultural land, numerous farm animals, and various public infrastructure assets (40 km of
electricity lines, 2 km of water pipes, 45 social/cultural clubs) have been protected against future
floods.


                                               - 43 -
(7) HPAI. The investments financed under this belatedly added component, which was
intended to supplement the funding provided under the HPAI Project, were implemented as
planned. They involved the partial redesign and rehabilitation of veterinary laboratory facilities,
the provision of urgently needed laboratory equipment and consumables, and the rehabilitation
of existing and construction of additional facilities ("Bekkari holes") throughout the country for
the safe disposal of animal carcasses.

(8) Pasture Management Pilot. The pilot operation to develop and test community-based
pasture management achieved all of its objectives. It was instrumental in fostering legislative
changes to introduce community-based and decentralized pasture management in the Kyrgyz
Republic. A review of the existing pasture legislation was carried out, roundtables with all major
stakeholders were held to identify key areas requiring attention, a working group for drafting a
new pasture law and regulations was established, consultations with key experts and
representatives of government and society were held, and a draft pasture law and a draft
regulation for Pasture User Committees were developed, discussed in roundtables and widely
disseminated. The new pasture law was submitted to Parliament in early December 2008.

Jointly with ARIS and the RAS, the project supported pasture users in four aiyl okmotus in
mobilizing, organizing, implementing and monitoring community-based pasture management
plans. Introductory meetings were held in each community to familiarize everyone with the
objectives and tasks of the pilot, and focus groups discussions were held to identify priority
problems in the management of the local pastures. This was followed by several rounds of
village-wide meetings to discuss the results of the focus group discussions, elect Pasture
Committee members and discuss and approve the Pasture Management Plans developed by these
committees. Local capacity for community-based pasture management was increased through
training regarding sustainable pasture management, pasture rotation, pasture monitoring, animal
husbandry and health issues, as well as pasture legislation. The project supported the
communities and local self-governments in developing their own locally appropriate and agreed
pasture management plans, emphasizing the importance of equitable allocation of use rights, of
long-term sustainability and of pasture improvement measures. Funds were provided to all four
pilot communities to carry out an inventory of their pasture resources and to produce pasture
resource maps, and small block grants were provided to the communities to finance selected
small pasture improvement projects.

A combined total of about 200,000 ha of pastures were managed by the rural communities and
their local governments. The experience gained subsequently served to guide the development
of the country-wide pasture management component of the new Agricultural Investments and
Services Project.




                                               - 44 -
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                       - 45 -
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                        Title                    Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
John Cole                Sr. Agriculturalist                     ECSSD TTL
Mohinder Mudahar         Pr. Agricultural Economist              ECSSD TTL
Ramesh Deshpande         Pr. Financial Operations Officer        ECSSD TTL
Sarina Abdysheva         Operations Officer                      ECCKG   Operational issues
Malcolm Childress        Consultant (Land Reform Specialist)     ECSSD   LAR
Francois Dauphin         Agronomist                               FAO    RAS, Seeds
P. Dickie                Consultant (Seed Specialist)            ECSSD   Seeds
Dinara Djoldosheva       Operations Officer                      ECCKG   Operational issues
Rohan G. Selvaratnam     Consultant (Finance Assistant)          ECSSD   Project costing
Jitendra P. Srivastava   Sr. Agriculturalist                     ECSSD   RAS, seeds
Benoit Villerette        Agr. Economist                           FAO    LAR, RAS, seeds
Supervision/ICR
Gotz A. Schreiber        Lead Economist                          ECSSD   TTL
Maurizio Guadagni        Rural Development Specialist            ECC08   TTL
Brian G. Bedard          Sr. Livestock Specialist                ECSSD   TTL
Gavin P. Adlington       Sr. Land Administration Specialist      ECSSD   Land reform
Roque Ardon              Financial Management Specialist         ECC08   Financial mgmt.
Jennifer Corso           Team Assistant                          ECSSD   Project budget issues
                                                                         Implementation
Ramesh Deshpande         Consultant (Financial Oper. Spec.)      ECSSD
                                                                         arrangements
Almaz Djanaliev          Procurement Specialist                  ECCKG   Procurement
Antoon S. van Engelen    Consultant (Agriculturalist)            ECSSD   RAS
Kees Eveleens            IPM Specialist                           FAO    IPM
Ranjan Ganguli           Sr. Financial Management Spec.          ECSSD   Financial mgmt.
Renee A. Giovarelli      Consultant (Land Lawyer)                ECSSD   Land reform
David Gisselquist        Consultant (Inputs Policy Specialist)   ECSSD   Seed policy
J. Jones                 IPM Specialist                           FAO    IPM
Kubat Jumaliev           Operations Officer                      ECCKG   Operational issues
Naushad Khan             Lead Procurement Specialist             ECSPS   Procurement
Hannah M. Koilpillai     Sr. Disbursement Officer                 LOA    Disbursement
Talaibek T. Koshmatov    Operations Officer                      ECSSD   FDF, project issues
Ainura Kupueva           Operations Officer                      ECSSD   Operational issues
Nurbek Kurmanaliev       Procurement Specialist                  ECSPS   Procurement
David G. Lugg            Agriculturalist                           FAO   Agronomic aspects
Chris Matthias           Consultant (Market Information Spec.)    FAO    KAMIS
Javed Musharraf          Country Portfolio Manager                IFAD   IFAD liaison
John O. Ogallo           Financial Management Specialist         ECSPS   Financial mgmt.
Evgeny Polyakov          Agr. Economist                          ECSSD   Seed policy


                                         - 46 -
T. V. Sampath             Sr. Agriculturalist                     ECSSD   CSF, seeds
Sandra Schnellert         Junior Professional Associate           ECSSD   FDF, M&E
Orunbek Shamkanov         Operations Officer                      ECSSD   FDF, LAR, KAMIS
Bekzod Shamsiev           Agricultural Economist                  ECSSD   LAR, RAS, KAMIS
E. John Stevens           Consultant (Seed Industry Specialist)   ECSSD   Seeds
Asyl Undeland             Operations Officer                      ECSSD   Project issues
Nico van Wageningen       Consultant (Extension Specialist)       ECSSD   RAS
Peter Zara                Junior Professional Associate           ECSSD   Project issues
Alma Zhandautelova        Financial Management Specialist         ECC08   Financial mgmt.
Willem Zijp               Extension Specialist                    ECC08   RAS
Tian Ya                   Country Portfolio Manager                IFAD   IFAD liaison


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                      18.40
  FY97                                                                     401.46
  FY98                                                                     247.16
                          Total:                                           667.02
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                      26.70
  FY99                                                                     175.07
  FY00                                        44                           122.07
  FY01                                        40                           129.44
  FY02                                        38                           218.90
  FY03                                        34                           134.33
  FY04                                        35                           119.06
  FY05                                        28                           119.81
  FY06                                        21                           119.17
  FY07                                        15                            88.78
  FY08                                         5                            18.29
                          Total:             260                          1271.62




                                           - 47 -
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                      - 48 -
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                      - 49 -
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Letter from the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic:


                         Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic

12.12.2008
# 16-1-2-10088

                                                                            Unofficial translation

Country manager of the World Bank Office in the Kyrgyz Republic
Mr. Roger Robinson



Dear Mr. Robinson,

        Having reviewed the Implementation Completion Report for the Agricultural Services
Support Project the Ministry of Finance expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for the
objective appraisal of the result of the project and its overall impact on the agrarian sector. We
fully agree with your opinion of ASSP as one of the most challenging projects as it was
implemented during the years of economic reforms including land agrarian reform in our
country. This in its turn had required extra effort both from the side of the World Bank and
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic for the timely changes, correction of tasks and responses to
the implemented reforms. Nevertheless we note with satisfaction that the objectives of the
project are met and its impact on the agrarian sector is obvious.

        We highly appreciate that the World Bank objectively appraised the risks and evaluated
the work of the project's team from the side of the World Bank as moderately satisfactory as the
work of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. However, taking into account all of the
objective difficulties of the economic reform period in the Kyrgyz Republic and continuous
coordination of actions from the side of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the ASSP
and achieved results of the project we propose to evaluate the work of the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic as satisfactory.

                                                  Sincerely
                                                  Acting Minister
                                                  Kojoshev A.

                                         Executed by N. Japarova




                                               - 50 -
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

IFAD endorsed the draft ICR without further comment.




                                           - 51 -
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) Kyrgyz Republic, Implementation Completion
   Reports for all project components, Bishkek, 2007
   Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) Kyrgyz Republic, "Report on Post Project
   Monitoring and Evaluation: Seed Industry Development Component", Bishkek, 2006
   Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) Kyrgyz Republic, "Report on Post Project
   Monitoring and Evaluation: Plant Quarantine and Crop Protection Component", Bishkek,
   2006
   Kyrgyz-Swiss Agriculture Project, "RAS/KSAP Kyrgyz-Swiss Agriculture Programme:
   Programme Document for RAS/KSAP Phase VII, 7/2007 to 12/2010", Bishkek, May 2007
   Rural Development Fund, "Survey on Level of Ownership of Kyrgyz Farmers towards the
   Rural Advisory Service Network", Bishkek, 2006
   SDC/WB, "Joint External Review: Rural Advisory Service and Kyrgyz-Swiss Agricultural
   Program", final report, December 2006
   World Bank, "Kyrgyz Republic: Agricultural Support Services Project" (Staff Appraisal
   Report), Report No. 17312-KG, 3 April 1998
   World Bank, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports, Implementation
   Status Reports, Back-to-Office Reports, Mid-Term Review Report, 1999-2007
   World Bank, "Kyrgyz Republic: Agricultural Policy Update -- Sustaining Pro-poor Rural
   Growth: Emerging Challenges for Government and Donors," Report No. 31040, 2004
   World Bank, "Kyrgyz Republic: Agricultural Investments and Services Project," (Project
   Appraisal Document), Report No. 43107-KG, 2008
   World Bank, "Kyrgyz Republic: Second Land and Real Estate Registration Project," (Project
   Appraisal Document), Report No. 44045-KG, 2008




                                           - 52 -
