Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICILl USE ONLY
MICROFICHE Copy                                          Report No. 10524-ANG
Report No. 10524-ANG Type: (SAR)
MILLAN, T./ X34019 / J7 065/ AF3IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 21, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their ofliciCl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EO'JIVALENTS
Date                    Currency Unit                New Kwanza
Mar. 91-Nov. 1991      US$1.00              =        NKz6O
Nov. 16, 1991          US$1.00              =        NKz9O
Feb. 29, 1992          US$1.00              =        NKz18O
April 1992              US$1.00             =        NKz55O
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)              =         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =         0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)             =         2.2 pounds (lb.)
1 meter (m)                 =         3.28 feet
1 metric ton (m ton)        =         2.204 (lb.)
1 square kilometer (kIn2P   =         0.386 square mile (sq.m.)
GLOSSARY ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       =       African Development Bank
BNA        =       National Bank of Angola
CCCE       =       Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (France)
CELB       =       Companhia Electrica do Lobito e Benguela (power utility)
EDFI       =       Electricite de France International
EDEL       =       Empresa de Distribucao de Electricidade de Luanda (power utility)
EIB        =       European Investment Bank
ENE        =       Empresa Nacional de Electricidade (power utility)
ESMAP    =         Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
GWH        =       Gigawatt- Hour
HV         =       High Voltage
ICB        =       International Competitive Bidding
IDA        =       Intemational Development Association
LCB        =       Local Competitive Bidding
Kv         =       Kilovolt
MV         =       Medium Voltage
MW         =       Megawatt
OGE        =       Orcamento Geral do Estado (General Budget)
PPF        =       Project Preparation Facility
SAR        =       Staff Appraisal Report
SEEA       =       Secretaria de Estado de Energia e Aguas (Ministry of Energy)
SDR        =       Special Drawing Rights
SONEFE   =         Sociedade Nacional de Estudos e Financiamento de
Empreendimentos Ultramarinos (Northem AngolaElectricity Company)
TCF        =       Trillion cubic feet
UCP        -       Project Coordinating Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OMCAL UUS ONLY
ANGOAL
POWER SECTrOR REHABITlO   R,5:
Tabl of CantenA
CREDI1 AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                 ........................... .   i-iU
1.  THE ENERGY  S                R  ...................................
Country Background                  ......................................                         I
Energy Resources  .......................................                                          1
Energy Consumptio-n                   .....................................                        2
Energy Insdtueons                .......................................                           3
Bank Activides in the Sector   ............................                                        3
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR   ................................                                               3
Power Supply   .........................................                                           3
Electricity Consumption   ...................................                                     5
Demand Projections  .......................................                                       6
Electricity Tariffs.                                                                               7
Priority Program of Rehabilitation .8
The Capanda Hydroelectric Project  ............................                                    9
m. THE IMPLEMENTING  AGENCIES    ..........................                                              10
State Secretariat for Energy and Water  ..........................                                 10
Empresa Nacional de Electricidade (ENE)  ........................                                  10
Sociedade de Estudo e Finan^;amento
de Empreendimentos U3tramarinos (SONEFE)  .................... .11
Staffing and Personnel Management  ............................                                    12
Billing and Collection   ....................................                                      13
IV. TH         PROJECT   ........................................                                        14
Program  Objectives   ......................................                                        14
Project Description  .......................................                                        14
Institutional Reforms    .....................................                                      14
Rehabilitation of the Central Power System   .......................                              1S
Quileva-Huambo transmission line  ............................                                   15
Substations ....... .         ..................................    1S
Huambo distribution               ................................                               15
This report is based on the finding of an appraisal mision to Angol in Fiebnuay-March 1992 which consisd of
Mears. Paticio Milan, Senior Economis (Task Manage); Angel Baide, Power Engineer; lhomas Pereir,
Fumancial   alyst; Joao laptit, Enery Consultat; Leif Jensn, Power Engineer Consukaint; Leidal Tontein,
Power Engie  Consultant. Mr. Antonio Coinbra, Pin l Analyst Consulant participftd in a previous
mission and contrlbuM-d to the repot  Mr. Docar Thiam was the Per Reviewer and Mr. Alfred Guitone, tho
Lead Advisor. Ms. Liliane Yomepe pravided secrtl suppost in the preption of the repot Mr. Michael
Sarus and Mr. Francisco Aguirrn.SAsa are the managing Division Chief and the Depaitment Director,
repctively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Capacity Building for Power Maintenance                .......................         IS
Pilot Program of Prepayment Mete ...........................                           1S
Capacity Buildint for Management                ...........................            IS
Technical Assistance to the SEEA               ............................            16
Rehabilitation of the Northern Power System               .....................        16
Project Preparation           ......................................                    16
ProjecCosts           ..........................................                        16
FinancingPlan  ............              .............................                  17
Project Implementation           1....................................                  i
Disbursements                                           ........ ......                 19
Procurement             ..........................................                      19
Monitoring and Reporting  ....... ..........                 .................          22
Environmental Considerations   ...............                 ................         23
V.FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ...................................                                     23
Accounting Systems          ..................................... .2 5
Audit         ...............................................                           2S
Insurance       ...................................... .                                25
Past Financial Results   ....................................                           25
Future Performance  ......................................                              26
VI. PROJECT JUSTIMCATION AND RISKS   ......................                                   27
Project Benefits  ........................................                              27
Project Risks  ..........................................                               28
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMM[ENDATIONS    ...... ..                             ..........      29
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .............................                        30
Recommendaion   .......................................                                 31
TEXT .ABLE
2.1 Demand Projections                                ....    6
4.1 Program Cost Summary ...................   17
4.2 Program Financing Plan ...........                            .......                     18
4.3 Disbursement Schedule ..................                                                  19
4.4   Summary of Proposed ProcurementArngemis ...............                     ....        21
6.1   EconomicViabiityofRehablitationWorks ........               ...............             28
ANIXLM
1.1 Letter of Power Sector Policy
2.1 Installed and Available Generating Capacity in June 1991
2.2 Total Electricity Generation, Distribution and Losses
2.3 Thermal Plant- Current Situation and Actions in Progress
2.4   Hydro Plants- Current Situaton and Actions in Progress
2.5   Distribudon System in Luanda Province-              ion  of the present situation and
actions in progress
2.6   Distribution Systems of Lobito-Benguea- Crcion of the prest situation and
actions in progress
3.1   Organiztonal Chart of the State Secretariat of Energy and Water (SEEA)
4.1   Costs Tables



4.2  Capacity Building for Maintenance- Terms of Reference
4.3 Capacity Building for Management- Terms of Reference
4.4 Team of Expe£ts for Project Coordination- Terms of Reference
4.5  Rehabilitation of the Distribution Network of Huambo- Terms of Reference
4.6  Implementation and Procuement schedules
4.7  Supervision Plan
S.1  ENE- Income Statements
5.2  ENE- Balance Sheets
5.3  SONEFE- Income Statements
5.4  SONEFE- Balance Sheet
5.5  ENE- Projected Income Statements
5.6  SONEFE- Projected Income Statements
6.1  Economic Analysis
7.1  Selected rocuments Available in the Project File



@rii ami PoectEum
Peoples Republic of Angola.
Stat. Secetariat for Energy and Water (SEEA) and National
Electricity Company (ENE).
SDR 24.5 million (US$33.5 million equivalent).
Turn:                     Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
The main objectives of Angola's power rehabilitation program are to
(i) lay the insdtutional foundation for sustainable operations in the
sector' (ii) reestablish the integrity of the transmission grid in the
Northern and Central electrical systems that was heavily sabotaged
ud destroyed during the civil war. The program aims at creating
inllmuim conditions of efficiency and reliability in the supply of
dectric power to the main population centers of Angola, so as to
create an appropriate basis for economic recovery. At the present
dime, the exiEing utilities operate as departments of the Government,
wihout independent management and adequate accounting and
financial sysrms. The project, which is.a key component of the
hilitation program, will provide assistance to create a new
Institutional and legal structure in the power sector and to start the
proem of developing efficient, commercially viable and autonomous
power companies.  As both the rehabilitation needs and the
insttutional requirements in Angola are enormous this is expected to
be the first in a series of operations in the power sector.
'Me proposed project would include the following components: (i)
itmutional reforms in the power sector; (ii) capacity building in the
power utilities to improve management and maintenance practices;
(I) asistance to the SEEA to define the legal and institudonal
frmerk for the power sector and to coordinate the implementation
of tho power sector rehabilitation program; (iv) rehabilitadon of
anssion lines and sub-stations in the Quileva-Lomaum-Huambo
corrido and of the distribution network of Huambo; (v) a pilot
program of prepayment meters; and (vi) engineering studies and
wpervlsion of the rehabilitation program in the Northern System.
The rehabilitWion of the Cambambe-Luanda transmission lines and
tho corresponding substations will be undertaken through parallel
flmcing ftom the African Development Bank and the European
nlestment Bank.
_:~~ii.IM            :     heIl  rehabilitation of the principal transmission lines from the
*lating hydroelectric plants to the major load centers constitutes the
lt-cost alternative to meet the existing and potental demand for
electricity. The proposed works have a high economic rate of reun



-ii -
(37 percent). Railitab don of this key infrastructure will remove an
lmpottn botlenec tha at the present hinders economic growth and
contributes to the dtriorton of  oe social environment in urban
areas. Through assistance to strengthen the quality and reliability of
the dectric power supply, develop autonomous and efficient power
companies and adapt the institutional structure of the sector to a
market-based economic system, the project will contribute to
i ovin  the efciency and productivity of the economy. The
eparation of the regulatory fction of the Govermnent fom the.
management and adminis on of power companies, the improved
quality of public invesbneDts in the sector and other insdtudonal
reforms initated with the project, will have lasting effects beyond the
rehibilitation period. The physical risks of the project are minimal
as rebabilitationwork willbe carrie' -t by exp-Itr-ad contractors
under well-known conditions. The major riso , th (I) the
population may resist paying the higher tariffs for electricity already
approved by the Government without immediate improvements in the
quality of service, and (ii) manpower will be insutfinient to ensure
adequate operation of the rehabilitated power systems. An early start
in thb rehabilitation works affecting major urban areas and a well
!o.ussed capacity building effort supported by the project, will help
minimize these risks.
F.simated COStS:
P=roar_ CoMmary
Local       Foreign       Total     X Foreign       X Totat
Exchane      Base Costs
'. IDA FINAMCED PROJECT
A. Rehab. of Northern Systm
Engineering studes and Superv.     0.0           1.5         1.5        100.0            5.1
S. Rehab. of Central Sstto
1. Transmission tine               0.8          11.5        12.3         93.5           22.7
2. Substations                     0.4           4.1         4.4         99.1            8.2
3. Huamo Distribution              0.5           2.6         3.1         83.9            5.7
smbA-TotL                          1.7          18.1        19.8         91.6           36.7
C. Prepayment Neters Program           0.1          0.8          0.9         97.2            1.6
D. Capacity Building Neintewance       0.0          2.1          2.1        100.0           3.9
E. Capacity Bultding Nwangmnst         0.0          1.9          1.9        100.0           3.4
F. T.A to th  SEEA
1. Studies & Instit. Reform        0.0          0.3          0.3        100.0            0.6
2. Project Coordinatfon Ter        0.0           3.1         3.1        100.0            5.7
Sub-Totat                          0.0          3.4          3.4        100.0            6.3
TOTAL MSELlt "ot                       1.7         27.8         29.5        94.2           100.0
Physiect Contfn ncies              0.2           2.7         2.9         92.7           10.0
Price Conting ncios                0.3           2.9         3.3         89.9           11.0
TOTAL PROECIf S LW iO
it. PAMLLEL FINUICE0 PR0JECT
Rehab. of the Northern  ystm
1. C ctsomb Plant *nd Sustatimns   0.2         4.0          4.2         95.5
2. Ca be-Luutdm Line              2.3          18.1        20.9         89.7
3. Luand Subetations              0.8           4.9         5.7         86.6
Total                             3.2          27.6        30.8         89.6
ttt.  TOTAL PRORMc OnS                 i 



-liiA -
mSS Ullion         _ T°u
IDA                 33.5            50.4
Afl)B                18.6           28.0
EIB                  9.0            13.5
Govormamn             S._          XJ
66.5          100.0
IDA FIaGaYear (US$ million)
FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97  FY98
Am"           4.2    11.0   9.7   6.0       2.3     0.3
Culdatlve    4.2    15.2  24.9  30.9    33.2    33.5
h~,unI~jate of .emm:    Physical Investmets: 37 percent (average)
Map: IBRD 23770



ANGQLA
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJET
L THE ENERGY SESIQ
Contry Background
1.1   The People's Republic of Angola is located on the west coast of Africa, with Namibia to the
south, Zambia to the east, and Zaire and the Congo to the no'ih. The country includes the oil-producing
enclave of Cabinda, which is separated from the rest of Angola by a corridor of Zairian territory and the
mouth of the Zaire River. Angola covers an area of 1.27 million sq. km and is the third largest country
south of the Sahara. The climate is tropical in the north, subtropical in the south, and temperate on the
high plateau. In the late 1980's Angola's population was about 10 million and it has been growing at
an annual rate of about 2.7 percent (as compared to 3.2 percent for sub-Saharan Africa). The urban
population is about 37 percent of the total and has been growing at a rate of about 7.5 percent a year.
GDP per capita in 1991 is estimated at US$ 620. The national illiteracy rate is estimated at 72 percent
and most social indicators are extremely low.
1.2   Angola is rich in natural resources and arable land. Economic development was stimulated by
a coffee boom, which made Angola by 1974 one of the world's four main coffee exporters, and by oil
production, which started in the late 1950's and reached 144,000 barrels per day in 1973. Disruptions
created by the armed struggle for independence, the ensuing civil war, the mass exodus of skilled
manpower and the inappropriate economic policies and management, have led to a substantial decline in
productive activities. Growth has been negative and production is significantly less today than in the
early 1970's. The oil industry, operated as an enclave, and diamond mining have been the only important
exceptions to the general economic decline. By 1991, oil output had reached about 500,000 barrels per
day and oil exports represented over 90 percent of total export revenues. The successful implementation
of the Peace Agreements signed in May 31, 1991 by the Government and main opposition force is
expected to provide the necessary political and social framework for economic recovery.
Ener  Resources
1.3    Angola is richly endowed with energy resources. In addition to ample woodfuel resources, the
country has sizeable oil and gas reserves and a large hydroelectric potential. With proven oil reserves
amounting to 1.4 billion barrels and natural gas reserves exceeding five trillion cubic feet (TCF), Angola
ranks second only to Nigeria as an oil producer among sub-Saharan countries. Investment in oil
exploration and development has been increasing and oil production has been soaring, boosting export
earnings. With domestic petroleum product consumption at the current level of 1.2 million tons per year,
Angola is expected to remain a net exporter of oil in the foreseeable future.
1.4   Woodfuels. Angola has approximately 50 million hectares of dense forests and further 55 million
hectares of woodland and savanna, which can produce much more wood than is currently consumed in
the country. However, the rapid urbanization and the supply constraints imposed by the civil war have
led to regional and local shortfalls, particularly in urban coastal areas. Woodfuels, which are almost
exclusively traded in the parallel market, are in fact the most expensive source of energy.



-2-
A UNDP/Wotld Bank study (ESMAP, Report No. 7408-ANG, May 1989) estimates that firewood and
charcoal in Luanda cost ab muchl as 10 to 20 times more than liquified petroleum gas (LPG), which is
sold at heavily subsidized prices.
1.5    iatral Gas. Angola's natural gas reserves exceed 5 TCF. Associated gas accounts for about
2.5 TCF. Angola has begun to exploit its natural gas reserves only recently and mainly for gas associated
with oil. About half of the associated gas is put to productive use, primarily in gas lift and reinjections
schemes which account for more than 85 percent of the country's gas utilization. Gas is also currently
used for power generation in Cabinda (10 MW gas turbine). Non-associated gas reserves are not yet
being exploited except for a small offshore field in Cabinda. On the question of further uses of associateJ
gas, the highest priorit, should be given to an LPG fractionation scheme in Cabinda which would replace
LPG imports and to an export-oriented LPG/condensates recovery program.
1.6   RoMWImM. A favorable legal and fiscal framework, comparatively low operating costs, and a
high discovery rate have attracted large amounts of foreign capital to the oil sector. This has led to
continuously increasing oil production, even during periods of declining oil prices. Continuing
investments by Chevron, Elf, Texaco, Conoco, Total and other companies have increased production,
which averaged 450,000 barrels per day in 1989, to about 500,000 barrels per day in 1991, of which
470,000 barrels per day are exported. Several new discoveries have been made recently and investments
in exploration and development in 1990 havw been estimated to be about US$ 600 million. The Luanda
refinery is a 1.7 million ton per year hydroskimming facility owned and operated by Fina Petroleos de
Angola. After its recent production enhancement and life-extension programs it should be able to supply
most of Angola's needs for some time, with marginal transactions to export the excess fuel-oil and import
some items proaciced in quantities lower than local demand.
1.7    Hydropow. Hydropower has always been the main source of electricity supply in Angola. The
country's installed power generating capacity is approximately 462 MW, of which 62 percent is in
hydroelectric units. Hydro generation normally accounts for about 85-90 percent of gross generation,
although in zecent years several thermal generation units have been installed in the main population
centers to overcome the disruptions caused by the civil war and the acts of sabotage to the hydroelectric
plants and transmission lines. No new hydroelectric plant has been completed since 1974, but the 520
MW Capanda project is presently under construction and its first stage (2 x 130 MW) is scheduled to
begin operations in 1993. Available estimates indicate that only 1 percent of the potential hydroelectric
resources of the country are being used.
Energ Conumptton
1.8  'Me estimated final consumption of energy form all sources was 2.1 million tons of oil equivalent
(toe) in 1986. Woodfuels represent 56 percent of this total, while petroleum products account for 42
percent and electricity for 2 oercent. The per capita consumption of modern fuels (petroleum and
lectricity) is about 110 kgoe, which puts the country in a middle range among sub-Saharan countries.
The consumption of petroleum products has shown an upward trend, growing at between 7 and 9 percent
per year, despite the deterioration in the overall performance of the economy, while that of electricity
has sharply declined due to the disruptions in supply.



-3-
En lJtttIUp
1.9   The Miistiy of Petroleum and the State Secretariat for Energy and Water (SEEA) have overall
responsibility for establishing and implementing national policies in the energy sector. The Ministry of
Petroleum supervises the operations of the state oil company SONANGCOL, which in turn oversees the
operations of the international oil companies and of the refinery. Tne SEEA supervises the power utilities
and coordinates actlvitie in the area of biomass and new and renewable sources of energy. In addition,
the Ministrles of Finance and Planning and the National Bank of Angola (BNA) play a key role in the
control and supervision of the public enterprises in the sector. The Ministry of Finance authorizes all
the major expenditures of the power utilities and subsidizes their operation, together with overseeing the
financial operations of the oil companies and assessing and collecting the various taxes. The Ministry
of Planning approves annual budgets and investment plans and the BNA has the final word on all
transactions that involve the utilization of foreign exchange.
1.10  Electricity generation in Anu- . a m'nly the responsibility of two companies: the Empresa
Nacional de Electricidade (ENE) and t!c  Sociedade Nacional de Estudo e Financiamento de
Empreendimentos Ultramarinos (SONEFE). On March 6, 1992, this last company was legally integrated
into ENE. Distribution in the area of Luanda is the responsibility of the Empresa de Electricidade de
Luanda (EDEL). Low voltage distribution in the rest if the country is sometimes handled by ENE and
other times by local municipalities ("commissariados"). As it is explained below (chapter III), the power
utilities have no managerial or financial autonomy and in practice operate as departments of the
Government. In the case of ENE, the State Treasury finances about 80 percent of operating expenses
and no financial statements were prepared for the first eight years since its establishment in 1980 (para.
5.2). The situation is similar in SONEFE.
Bank Activities In the Sector
1.11         The Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program (ESMAP) published
a detailed analysis of energy sector issues in May 1989 (Angola: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector.
Reprt No. 7408-ANG) and has examined the investment and technical assistance priorities in the power
sector (Angola: Power Rehabilitatign an Tecnical AssisNe, Repor. No. 142-91, October 1991).
These studies have provided the basis for the preparation of the project presented in this report, which
includes the financing of the rehabilitation activities of the hignest priority as identified in those studies.
This would be the first operation financed by the Bank in the energy sector in Angola, and in view of
the large rehabilitation needs amd institutional development requirements of the country, would likely be
followed by others.
H.  LEPWELSUBSECIOR
Power Supply
2.1   Electricity supply in Angola comprises three separate integrated systems and multiple isolated
centers. The  rthern Sytem is associated to the -itershed area of the Kwanza river and includes the
population centers of Luanda, Malange, N'dalatanuo and Gabela. The Cenral S m is associated to
the Catumbela river and the population centers of Lobito, Benguela and Huambo. Ihe Southm Slum
is associated with the Cunene river and includes the population center of Lubango, Matala and Namibe.



-4-
The main isolated centers are those of Cabinda, Uige and Bie. The province of Lunda Norte has a
separated system used for diamond mining activities that belongs to the mining company ENDIAMA.
Total installed capacity for power generation is about 462 MW, of which 255 M, are in the Northern
System. A list of installed snerating capacity is given in Annex 2.1. 'he attached map shows the
location of the major power stations in Angola and the transmission lines operating at voltage levels of
60 kV and above.
2.2 The main hydroelectric plants are Cambambe, with an installed capacity of 180 MW, Lomaum
with 35 MW, Matala with 27.2 MW, Mabubas with 17.8 MW and Biopio with 14.4 MW. The Capanda
hydroelectric project, with an initial capacit; of 260 MW, is presently under construction and is expected
to be in service by mid-1993. As indicated above, to overcome the disruptions caused by the civil war
and acts of sabotages to the hydroelectric rlants and transmission llnes, additional thermal generation hk-
been installed in the main population centers. Luanda has three gas turbines with a combined capacity
of 96 MW, including a new gas turbine of 40 MW that will start operation in 1992. The Lobito-Benguela
area has a gas turbine rated at 22.8 NW ar.d - number of diesel units with a nominal rating of 28 MW.
Huambo has a gas turbine with a nominal capacity of 13.5 MW and diesel units wl&. A total of 4.9 MW.
The Southern system has about 25.3 MW of installed thermal generation.
2.3    Of the total installed capacity of 462 MW, only 253 were available in June 1991. The Lomaum
hydroelectric power plant was seriously damaged in 1983 by sabotage and is currently inoperable It is
undergoing rehabilitation with financing provided by Portugal. The Mabubas station, which has been out
of service for rehabilitation since 1988, is expected to be recommissioned in 1992. Biopio underwent
a partial rehabilitation since 1987, but the old parts of the installation are a continuous source of
problems. Currently, the plant is only capable of generating 10.8 of the rated 14.4 MW. Two of the
fbur units of the Cambambe plant underwent rehabilitation, which was also in this case incemplete. The
(Gove dam, which regulates the flow of the Cunene river to the Matala plant in Angola and the Ruacana
plant in Namibia, was also damaged by guerilla activities and had to be emptied due to the risk of
collapse. It has been now partly refilled after an assessment of its condition financed by Norway. In
Matala, a third generating unit, ordered in 1981, but whose installation was delayed by the war, is in the
process of commissioning, while the rehabilitation of units 1 and 2 has recently begun with financing
fiom Belgium. A loan from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France is
financing the rehabilitation of the diesel units at Lobito and Namibe.
2.4   The main transmission line voltages are 220 Kv, 150 Kv, 100 Kv and 60 Kv. The 220 Kv
voltage level exists only in the Northern System and is used to transmit power from Cambambe to Luanda
(175 km) and from Cambambe to N'dalatando in the province of Kwanza Norte (73 km) and to Gabela
in the province of Kwanza SuW (125 km). The 100 Kv voltage level is also used only in the Northern
System in the line between N'dalatando and Malange (159 km). In the Central and Southern Systems
150 Kv and 60 Kv volt*'ge levels are used, with a total of 570 km and 340 km, respectively.
2.5   The two 220 Kv transmission lines from the Cambambe power plant to Luanda have often been
out of service because of war damages, making it necessary to run the high cost gas turbines in Luanda
to provide electricity service. At the present time, one line is in operation under precarious conditions
and load shedding measures and interruptions in Luianda are common. The rehabilitation of both these
transmission lines is of high priority and is included in the proposed program. The transmission lines
from Cambambe to Gabela and from Cambambe to N'dalatando are also out of senice as a result of
sabotage, but financing for their rehabilitation has not yet been obtained. The 150 Kv transmission line
between Huambo, Lomaum and Biopio was also damaged during the civil war and is out of service. Its



-5 -
rehabilitation is essential for the restoration of reliable service in the Central System and is also included
In the project. All the transmission lines in the Southern System need a complete overhaul, since they
have not benefitted form any routine maintenance in many years. Particularly, the 60 Kv line between
Namibe and Tombwa needs urgent repairs, because the conductors are highly corroded due to the
combined action of salt and wind. The rehabilitation of all the damaged 60 KY and 30 Kv transmission
lines is part of a second phase in the investment program for the sector.
2.6    AlI distribution networks in the major load centers in Angola require extensive rehabilitadon
v'3rks. Apart from the damages suffered in the last years, performance Is affected by obsolescence of
some of the equipment, lack of maintenance, low qualifications of the personnel in charge of operation
and inefficient corporate or organization and management.  Major rehabilitation projects for the
dlstribution system in Luanda are being carried out in the high voltage (HV) and medium voltage (MV)
ntworks for a total of about US $70 million, with financing from Spain, Italy, France, Sweden and the
African Develepment Bank (AfDB). One major problem with all these activities Is that coordination is
virtually non-existent, principally due to the dearth of managerial and supervisory capability at both
EDEL and the SEEA. Rehabilitation, retrofits and extensions of the Lobito-Benguela distribution network
funded by Spain in the amount of US$ 18 million are underway. A study for the rehabilitation of the
distribution network of Huambo, as well as some urgent physical investments, are included in the
proposed project.
FJctidl Co       -mpL
2.7   The civil war which has ravaged the country since independence has meant that the level of
electricity demand and consumption realized in 1974 has not yet been surpassed. In 1974, total electricity
generation in Angola was 1029 GWH, while it reached a level of 885 GWH in 1989, 778 GWH in 1990
and 936 GWH in 1991. The decline in 1990 is due to the extensive sabotage of the transmission lines,
which made it impossible to supply the city of Luanda from the Cambambe hydroelectric plant for 196
days. In 1989, the share of the Northern System total generation and consumption was about 82 percent,
while the Central System was 9 percent, the Southern system 6 percent and the isolated centers 3 percent.
The share of the Central System was 20 percent in 1982, but has declined substantially because it has
been tt: system most affected by supply disruptions.
2.8   Between 1967 and 1973, generation and consumption increased at an average rate of 16.4 percent
(Annex 2.2). By 1976 consumption had declined sharply to only about half the lever of 1974. A slow
recovery process sturted in 1977 and lasted undl 1982, when a new period of decline occurred due to the
Intensification of the sabotage activities. The average annual rate of growth in the period 1977-1982 was
6.6 percent. The ever increasing difficulties in supply led the Government to install a large number of
small and medium sized diesel units at the facilities of local authorities and major consumers. In 1986
about 2000 units of less than 1.5 MW of rated power were installed all over the country, for a total of
between 30 and 40 MW. Production and consumption from these units is not accounted for in the official
stadstics.
2.9 Siuce the data is unreliable, final consumption of electricity must be estimated from production
figures. Assuming an overall figure of 22 percent for transmission and distribution losses, consumption
may be estimnted at about 730 GWH in 1991. The share of the industrial sector has shown a pronounced
decline since 1973, when it represented about 50 percent of total consumption. On the basis of capacity
indexes, the absolute level of electricity consumption in the industrial sector may be today half the one



- 6 -
that existed in 1973. Most of the recovery in consumption experienced in the last years is explained by
the growth in residential consumption, mainly in the Luanda region.
Nemad ProJections
2.10   Given the present economic conditions of Angola, it is difficult to forecast demand for electricity
with any degree of confidence. All the electric systems are supply-constrained and, because of the levels
of suppressed demand, east trends do not provide a reliable yardstick to make valid projections. The
approach taken in the 1991 ESMAP report was to define plausible paths of demand growth on the basis
of alternative assumptions about the pace of the economic recovery following the return of peace. In the
'high' scenario, the assumed average annual growth rate in the period 1993-1998 was 9 percent in the
Northern System, 11 percent in the Central System and 8 percent in the Southern System. The higher
growth rates projected for the Central System are based on the existing level of suppressed demand and
the improved supply conditions which will be obtained after Lomaum is reconnected to the system. The
'low' scenario assumes 5 percent growth in the Northern System, 7 percent in the Central System and
6 percent in the Southern System. The forecasts are presented in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Angola EleMctity Demand Projedtions
SYSTEM AND YEAR         HIGH SCENARIO            LOW SCENARIO              CAPACITY
Energy 1/     Peak 1/     Energy 1/   Peak 1/      Inst.      Avail.
i Demnd       Gih      Demmndl/      NW          NW
Northern system
1989             695          123          695        123        254.6      185.0
1990             730          132          727        132
1995            1091          197          959        174
2000            1789          324         1302         236
2005            2509          455         1791         324
Central System
1989             120          22           120         22        110.1       26.6
1990             133          24           128         24
1995             198          47           180         34
2000             324          79           294         54
2005             455          117          410         77
Southern Systm
1989             64           13           64          13        52.5        19.4
1990             68           14           66          14
1995             115          23           8B          21
2000             169          34           141         30
2005             237          47           189         40
1/ Energy and Peak Demand at the NV busbars of HV/NV substations
Source: ESNAP, Report No. 142/91, October 1991



-7-
Eledrddty Tasf
2.11   The new tariffs established by Ordonnance 126/91 of December 30, 1991 are: (i) low voltage:
16.50 Kwanzas/KWH, (ii) high/medium voltage: 5.50 Kwanzas/KWH, and (iii) public lighting: 7.00
Kwanzas/KWH. These tariffs represent average increases of 358 percent for high/medium voltage, 450
percent for low voltage (in Luanda) and 367 percent for public lighting, in relation to the levels that
existed in October 1991. The increases were calculated so as to eliminate the consolidated operating
deficits excluding depreciation of the power sector as a whole, but the impact varies across the
companies. SONEFE and EDEL, which rely on hydroelectric supplies, will run substantial surpluses,
while EN_, which relies on thermal gener-[tion, will run a deficit. Since all the utilities are owned by
the Government, the cross-compensation will be done through the budget, although the recent integration
of SONEFE into ENE will eliminate some of the required compensation. The deficit of ENE will also
be corrected with the completion of the proposed project that will eliminate the need of high cost thermal
generation in the Central System. On February 21, 1992, the State Secretariat for Energy and Water and
the Ministry of Finance created a joint commission to define a model for automatic adjustments in
electricity tariffs that would be triggered by changes in the price of oil, the exchange rate and salaries.
This model requires a tariff increase of 150 percent in June, 1992 which the Government has accepted
to implement. At the end of 1992, tariffs will be further adjusted, if necessary, to catch-up with
unexpected increases in costs and continue with the policy of eliminating the overall need of operating
subsidies to the sector on a consolidated basis. The Government has accepted the principle that tariffs
should be based on long-run marginal costs of supply and should be maintained at a level that eliminates
the need of state subsidies for operating expenses and depreciation of the sector. A specific covenant for
these purposes has been included in the Credit Agreement, which also requires annual reviews of tariffs
with the Bank.
2.12 A detailed tariff study, financed by the Ministry of Cooperation and Development of France and
executed by Electricitd de France International (EDFI), is under way and is expected to be completed in
the second semester of 1993. The terms of reference for this study include, among others, the
establishment of demand projections, a least-cost expansion plan, the long-run marginal cost of supply
in the different electric systems, and of budget projections for the utilities. The results of this study,
which will include specific recommendations about tariff levels and structures will be reviewed with the
World Bank before December 31, 1993 and implemented before June 30, 1994. The Government used
the latest tariff increase to introduce a single national tariff, distinguishing only between low voltage
consumers, medium/high voltage consumers and public lighting. However, a single national tariff is not
appropriate in the present context of Angola, which includes separate consumption centers with different
operating costs. There are too many differences between the isolated centers and the three regional grids,
as well as between these integrated grids, for the single tariff to have any economic justification.
Additional shortcomings of the proposed single uniform tariff are: (i) the exclusion of capacity charges
for large industrial consumers; (ii) the absence of a separate tariff for inter-utility transfers of energy, and
(iii) the exclusion of progressive tariffs for residential consumers to ensure economic use of electricity
and conservation. The issue of a single tariff will be addressed in the tariff study under execution by
EDFI.
2.13 The financial situation of public utilities is aggravated by ineffective billing and collection.
Further increases in tariffs without improvements in the quality of services will create incentives to
continue avoiding the payments for electricity consumption. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) of France and the African Development Bank (AtDB) have provided financing to
improve the commercial operations of EDEL and part of this technical assistance should be operative by



-8 -
July 1992. EDEL is already trying to improve its performance in this area through improvements in
internal procedures and controls. As indicated below, the proposed project will finance similar actions
in the markets served by ENE, as well as a pilot program for pre-payment meters in Luanda. The AfDB
will also provid' ands for the needs of SONEFE in this area. The proposed project, together with other
rehabilitation activities, will improve the quality of service. All these actions are designed so as to ensure
that revenues are effectively increased.
ftIoU Pmgau of Rehabilitation
2.14 The Peace Agreements signed on May 31, 1991, have focused attention on the task of
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure of the country that had been severely damaged
during fifteen years of civil war. The provision of adequate and reliable supplies of electricity is essential
for Angola's economic recovery. The Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP) has provided assistance to the Government to identify the priority rehabilitation
needs in the power sector and to develop preliminary cost estimates. The report (AngQla- Power
Rehabilliation and Technical Assistance) was published in October, 1991, after extensive discussions and
agreement with the Government.
2.15 A detailed description of the current situation in the power generating plants and distribution
systems and of the actions in progress is given in Annexes 2.3-2.6. Based on these descriptions, as well
as more recent information, a preliminary rehabilitation program has been developed. Agreement has
been reached that the Government would review with the Bank before December 31, 1992, and each year
thereafter, a three year rolling public investment program in the electric sector. The highest priority
activities that are expected to represent the core of the first public investment program are listed below,
together with the financing situation:
A.    Energy Geneation
1.    Cambambe Hydroelectric station: not yet financed, studies will be undertaken under the
proposed project;
2.    Lomaum Hydroeleitric station: rehabilitation program under execution with financing
from Portugal;
3.    Matala Hydroelectric station: partial rehabilitation under execution with financing from
Belgium, excludes the hydraulic structures and the dam;
4.    Gove dam: sabotaged in 1987 and 1990, it was emptied to avoid the risk of collapse;
Norway has financed an assessment study;
5.    Thermal plants: rehabilitation of the diesel plants of Lobito and Namibe being financed
by CCCE of France, which is also considering a new financing to rehabilitate the thermal
plants of Kuito, Uige and Porto Amboin; rehabilitation of the gas turbine at Biopio is not
yet financed;
6.    Dam monitoring system: financed by Portugal;
B.    Tranmission Lines
1.    Cambambe-Luanda: to be financed under the proposed program by the African
Development Bank and the European Investment Bank;
2.    Huambo-Lomaum-Quileva: to be financed under the proposed project;



-9 -
3.    Namibe-Tombwa: not yet financed;
4.    Matala-Namibe: not yet financed;
5.    Cambambe-Gabela: not yet financed;
6.    Cambambe-N'datalando-Malange: not yet financed;
7.    Huambo-Chinguar: not yet financed;
C.    Distribution Systems
1.    Luanda: rehabilitation works under execution or programmed with financing from Spain,
Italy, France, Sweden and the African Development Bank;
2.    Lobito-Benguela: partial rehabilitation and extensions financed by Spain;
3.    Huambo: some priority actions will be financed under the proposed project;
D.    Training
1.    Training center of Hoji Ya Henda: financed by CCCE of France;
2.    Distribution personnel: not yet financed;
3.    Thermal plant operation and maintenance: partially included in the financing from CCCE
of France;
4.    Hrydro plant operation and maintenance: partially included in the Capanda project;
5.    General manpower training: not yet financed;
E.    Technical Assistance
1.    Billing and collection: financed by CCCE and AfDB in EDEL, by the AfDB in SONEFE
and by the proposed project in ENE;
2.    Accounting: financed by AfDB in SONEFE and by the proposed project in ENE;
3.    Operation and maintenance: partially financed in the proposed project.
The Capanda Hydroelectric Project
2.16  The Capanda project is located on the Kwanza river about 400 km south-east from Luanda and
143 km upstream from Cambambe. The station is designed for four 130 MW units, of which two are
being installed at the present time, and in average year will produce 2170 GWH with two units and 2400
GWH with four. Financing is provided by the ex-USSR and Brazil. The prime contractors are the
Russian company Technopromexport with responsibility for the electromechanical equipment and the
Brazilian company Construtora Norberto Oderbrecht for the civil works. The intake structures and power
tunnels have been completed and the dam will be finished shortly. The first unit is scheduled for
commissioning in May 1993 and the second one six months later. Commissioning dates for units 3 and
4 have not yet been decided.
2.17   Although the Capanda hydroelectric project did not represent the least-cost investment option
when begun, it has now reached a stage of completion where it is no longer feasible to abandon it.
Though the project is not included in the rehabilitation program, it influences the timing of the
rehabilitation of the Cambambe power plant. Also, if the cost of the investment is included in the assets
of the power utilities and reflected in the tariffs, substantial increaces in electricity rates will be required.
There is also the risk that the availability of excess power will induce the utilities to extend the



- 10-
transmission network although the investments might be uneconomic. However, as indicated above, the
Government has agreed to annually review with the Bank the public investment program in the electric
sector.
3.1   The State Secretariat for Energy and Water (SEEA) wIll have overall responsibility for project
implementation. lhe contracting of major works wIll be delegated to the Empresa Nacional de
Electricidade (ENE) and to the Sociedade Nacional de Estudo e Financiamento de Empreendimentos
Ultramarinos (SONEFE), who are responsible for operating the two electric systems involved in the
project. As explained below, ENE and SONEFE operate in practice as departments of the Government,
without financial and managerial autonomy. The current insdtutional arrangements in the sector and the
financial situation of the utilities do not justify the onlending of part of the Credit to these entities. A
major objective of the proposed project is to start the process of turning this situation around, leading to
the creation of autonomous and financially independent companies.
State Seradiat for Enery snd Water
3.2   The SEEA was created in early 1991, following a reorganization of the then existing Ministry
of Energy and Petroleum, with the responsibility to supervise and coordinate all activities in the water
and energy sectors, excluding petroleum. It has about 145 technical and professional staff and 110
administrative and support personnel. SEEA's organizational chart is presented in Annex 3. 1. The most
important departments for project execution are the Cabinet of Studies and Planning and the National
Directorate of Energy.
3.3 The Cabinet of Studies and Planning is responsiblk for the preparation and execution of energy
plans and investment programs, for energy pricing and for the formulation of energy policies. The
National Directorate of Energy cooperates in the preparation of energy plans and programs, gives
authorization to the operators inolved in the production, transmission and distribution of electricity and
controls and supervises the technical conditions of all power installations. To coordinate the execution
of all the rehabilitation projects in dte power sector financed by either multilateral or bilateral agencies,
a special Project roordinating Unit (UCP) has been created within the Cabinet of Studies and Planning.
Tnis Unit will administer the funds provided by the project to the SEEA and will be assisted by a
technical team of experts financed through the project. Ihe team of experts will assist the SEEA in
negotiations with donors and ensure the quality of the planning and the execution of all investment and
technical assistance projects of the Power Sector Rehabilitation Program. It will also provide training
in these areas to UCP staff.
Ring=                             !Sd de  am
3.4   :he Empresa Nacional de Electricidade (ENE) is a public economic unit ("unidade economica
estatal"), created in 1980 by Decree No. 24/80 and intended to become the sole national electric utility
of Angola. The 1980 decree incorporated into ENE the assets and personnel of what until then had been
various electric udlities with local or regional coverage: the Junta Provincial de Electrifilao in the



- 11 -
Southern System, the Hidro-Electrica do Alto Catumbela in the Central System, the Hidro-Electrica do
Uige and the provincial systems of Cabinda, Ulge, Huambo, Bid, Namibe and Huila. Recently, the
provincial systems of Malange and Kuanza Sul and the Companhia Eleetrica do Lobito-Benguela (CELB)
have also been incorporated into ENE. However, ENE does not provide low voltage distribution in
Luanda, for which the Empresa de Electricidade de Luanda (EDEL) is responsible.
3.5    A major issue in the organization of the sector is the determination of an appropriate role and
structure for ENE. After more than a decade since its creation, about 80 percent of production and
consumption still remains outside its domain. Tbe headquarters of ENE and most of its qualified staff
are in Luanda, far away from its main installations and centers of activity. Several localities under the
responsibility of ENE operate in an independent manner, almost as separate utilities, with little support
and control from the center. In many cases the delegate from the SEEA is at the same time the local
representative of ENE, creating confusion in responsibilities between the overseer and the implementing
agency.
3.6    Although the statutes of ENE provided for the constitution of a Board of Directors with primary
responsibility for the management and administration of the company, this Board has never been
established. ENE's administration is in the hands of a General Director, three Deputy General Directors
and several Regional Directors, all appointed by the SEEA. Other functions reserved for the Board of
Directors, such as the approval of annual budgets, investment programs, financial statements, salaries and
internal regulations have also been taken over by the SEEA. The separation of the regulatory function
of the Government from the manaement and administration of the company, as well as the establishment
of new statutes for ENE and the appointment of a Board of Directors are urgently needed, and will be
initiated with technical assistance under the proposed project.
3.7    A special fetre of the statutes of ENE is that it gives the company a monopoly over production,
transport and distribution of electricity in the areas where it has been given the concession to operate from
the Government. While this feature has not been applied in practice, it could in the future limit
alternative developments in the sector, including the participation of private operators. It is evident that
this aspect of the statutes of ENE needs to be modified. However, this must follow the establishment of
a regulatory framework for the sector, as indicated above, and an analysis of different alternative
scenarios for the institutional development. One of the possibilities is that ENE be split into regional
companies. Another one is that it be transformed into a holding company with general supervisory
responsibilides over regional companies or that it be converted into the sole national utility with Regional
Directorates.
3.8    As indicated below (para. 4.3), the project will provide assistance to the SEEA to draft and
Electricity Law and to establish a new institudonal and organizational structure for the power sector.
During the negotiations of the project, agreement was reached that the Government would submit a
proposal on these aspects by March 31, 1993 and implement the agreed recommendations by June 30,
1993. By March 31, 1993, the Government would also propose new statutes for ENE and by June 30,
1993, it would adopt the statutes and appoint a Board of Directors.
3.9 SONEFE was a company responsible for the production and transport of electricity in the
Northern System, the largest in the country, that provided direct supply to medium and high voltage



- 12 -
industrial users in the Luanda region and to the Empresa de Electricidade de Luanda (EDEL), which in
turn distributes power among long voltage consumers. The company was created in 1956 as a joint-stock
corporation with Angolan, Portuguese and Mozambican capital. In 1957 it obtained a concession to
devolop the hydroelectric potential of the middle Kwanza river and in 1958 it began the construction of
the Cambambe power plant. The Mozambican and Portuguese shares were bought by the Angolan
government in 1980 and 1984, respectively. In 1982, the board of Directors was dissolved and an
Emergency Commission was appointed to oversee the transformation of SONEFE into a state company.
That process was expected to last six months, but was in fact never concluded, leaving the utility in a
situation of legal indefinition.
3.10   SONEFE was run by the Emergency Commission appointed by the SEEA until March 1992,
when it was legally integrated into ENE. This commission was composed of a Director General, and
three Deputy Directors for Engineering and Development, Operations and Maintenance, and
Administration and Finance and this structure has been retained after the legal integration into ENE. This
structure may be changed after the new organizational structure of the power sector (para. 4.3) and
reorganization of ENE. As in the case of ENE, the approval of annual budgets, investment programs,
financial statements, salaries and internal regulations of SONEFE was also in the hands of the SEEA.
Staffinf and Personnel Management
3.11   At the end of 1990, the total personnel of ENE, excluding CELB, was 2212, of which 58 were
high level technicians, 314 had some basic technical training, 1465 were unskilled workers and 375 were
administrative and service personnel. Since the number of consumers served amounted to about 65,000,
the ratio was 29 users per worker, which is a low figure that indicates low productivity and excess
personnel. SONEFE has a staff of 851 persons, of which 30 were high level technicians, 209 had some
technical training, 447 were unskilled workers and 195 were administrative and service personnel. The
total number of clients is about 760, which, as indicated before, are mostly supplied at medium and high
voltage levels. Again there is excessive personnel and low productivity.
3.12   To make up for the shortage of qualified personnel, the utilities have resorted to the recruitment
of expatriates, either under bilateral donor agreements or by individual contracts. ENE has 14 senior and
mid-level foreign technicians and SONEFE has 46. These expatriates generally work in isolation, due
to the lack of qualified Angolan counterparts, and have no authority over the local staff. As a
consequence, the transfer of know-how from these expatriates has been limited. Until recently, graduated
technicians were allocated to the different sectors by the Ministry of Labor according to its own criteria,
with the result of low staff morale and productivity. Many qualified workers have left the utilities to take
positions in the private sector, which offers better salaries and benefits.
3.13   The power companies have no personnel management policies and follow the salary structure of
the Government. Personnel records are not kept current and performance evaluations are not carried out.
Absenteeism is high and dismissals are virtually impossible. Because of the lack of social security
system, many workers are kept on the payroll past their retirement age. The French Cooperation has
provided funds for a program to improve human resource management of ENE and a contract has been
signed with the consortium EDFI/Hay Management Consultants.
3.14  There is a serious lack of qualified manpower in all utilities. It is estimated that 70 percent of
the workers have no more than primary education and that 30 percent have no schooling whatsoever and



- 13 -
are illiterate. Training programs are costly and time consuming but absolutely necessary and t; gent.
The electricity training center of Hoji Ya Henda near Luanda has been financed by a loan of 60.5 million
french francs from the CCCE of France and is operational since March, 1990. About 450 trainees have
already participated in courses on distribution systems, diesel and hydro generation and electrotechnics.
Electricit6 de France International has provided technical assistance, but the arrival of three permanent
experts has been delayed because no housing is available. About 20 trainers have received special
training at a similar center in COte d'Ivoire.
3.15   There is another training center in Cassange, near Lobito, under the responsibility of ENE, but
it is operated as a vocational school and only a small percentage of graduates have been employed by
ENE. A recent mission of CCCE has recommended that the training center of Hoji Ya Handa organize
some training sessions at the facilities in Cassange. However, until now there are no training programs
in the areas of accounting and finance, stock management, human resources management and other non-
electrical subjects that are required with priority for the adequate development of the power sector.
Billing and Collection
3.16   Billing and collection difficulties are significant in Luanda. EDEL estimates that the number of
illegal consumers is about 30,000 compared to 70,000 registered consumers. Its billing process was
interrupted between 1983 and 9187, creating the impression to many consumers that electricity was a free
commodity. Given the inefficiencies in the postal service and the banking system, a system of collection
agents is used. EDEL issues a large number of "estimated" bills and the bills received are often disputed
by consumers, who then refuse to pay. The poor quality of the electric service hampers the effort to
improve billing and regularize connections. A technical assistance program in the area of billing and
collections of EDEL will be put in place shortly, with financing from the CCCE of France. The pilot
program for pre-payment metering that will be included in the project is also directed to address the
issues in this area.
3.17   While SONEFE deals only with a small number of bulk consumers, records are not adequately
maintained because of lack of efficient information flow and coordination among departments. The
majority of the bills are issued on the basis of estimated consumption due to the shortages of transport
means for meter readers. SONEFE uses a private company to prepare its billing, but this has also been
ineffective. The mid-1990 billing, for example, which is all based on estimates, was delayed to
January/February 1992.
3.18   While ENE has similar collection problems in some places, the difficulties are less serious in the
small cities that it serves and are mostly concentrated in public entities. Private consumers' bills are
generally paid promptly and disconnections are done frequently. However, most of the equipment used
is obsolete and in need of replacement. The proposed project will include technical assistance to improve
and modernize the commercial activities of ENE (Annex 4.3). In order to reduce the level of accounts
receivable, it was agreed during negotiations that: (i) the annual budgets of all governmental agencies and
public enterprises would include a sufficient provision to cover the estimated costs of electricity
consumption; (ii) all future electricity bills submitted to pubic sector entities would be paid within two
months of their receipt; and (iii) ENE and EDEL would systematically cut off the supply of electricity
to all delinquent consuriers, including government agencies and public enterprises.



- 14-
IV. TMEROEcT
Prow=rambJcivelsA
4.1    Based on extensive work undertaken by ESMAP and the Bank, a program of high priority
rehabilitation investments and institutional improvements was identified and endorsed by the
Goverment. The main objectives of the program are to: (i) lay the institutional foundation for
sustainable operations in the sector; and (ii) reestablish the integrity of the transmission grid in
the Northern and Central electrical systems that was heavily sabotaged and destroyed during the
civil war. The program is aimed at creating minimum conditions of efficiency and reliability in
the supply of electri" power to the main population centers of Angola, so as to create an
appropriate basis for economic recovery. At the present time, the existing utilities operate as
departments of the Government, without independent management and adequate accounting and
financial systems. The program will provide assistance to create a new institutional and legal
structure in the power sector that, among other things, will separate the regulatory function of
the Government from the administration and management of utilities and to start the process of
developing efficient, commercially viable and autonomous power companies.
I-roject Descigtion
4.2   The project propos.   i this report is a key part of the overall program. The project
includes the following compN., nts, that are further described below:
(a)   Institutional reforms in the power sector;
(b)    Rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission lines and substations of the
Central System, as well as of priority sections of the Huambo distribution
network;
(c)    A pilot program of prepayment meters;
(d)    Capacity building in the power utilities for the improvement of their maintenance
practices;
(e)    Capacity building in the power utilities to improve management and performance
in the areas of accounting, stock managem'nt and commercial operations;
(t)    Technical assistance to SEEA for the legal and regulatory framework and project
coordination; and
(g)    Engineering studies and supervision of the rehabilitation program in the Northern
System. The rehabilitation of the main transmission facilities and substations in
this system will be undertaken under parallel financing from the African
Development Bank and the European Investment Bank.
4.3   Institutional Reforms. The main objectives of these reforms are to separate the regulatory
function of the Government from the management and administration of power utilities and to
promote the development of commercially viable and autonomous companies. To achieve these



- 15 -
objectives the project will finance consulting services to support the preparation of an Electricity
Law and the ewtablishment of an institutional and organizational structure for the power sector
that promotes operational efficiency and competition. The Electricity Law will define, among
others, the following aspects: (i) the role of the State and its regulatory finction; (ii) the
autonomy of sector enterprises in pursuing their defined objectives and fulfilling their
responsibilities; (ii) the pricing of electricity; (iv) the participation of the private sector and rules
for entry of new companies; (v) the appointment and the independence of management; and (vi)
the criteria for investments in the sectors. The options that will be examined to define the
institudonal structure of the sector include: of) the integration of the existing public companies;
(ii) the creation of integrated regional utilities; (iii) horizontal integration on the basis of a
generating company, a transmission company and regional/local distribution companies and (iv)
the creation of decentralized companies. The Electricity Law will have adequt8e flexibility to
permit future developments of alternatve organizational structures.
4.4    Rehabilitation of the Central BUM Systm. The components included are the following:
(i)    Ouileva-Huambo transmission line. The work required for this 280 km long,
150 Kv transmission line, also heavily sabotaged, includes the complete
reconstruction of about 60 steel transmission towers, general repairs and
anticorrosive treatment of all 760 towers, replacement of about 250 insulator
chains and of 150 kn of conductors.
(ii)   Substations. The substations of Quileva, Biopio, Alto Catumbela and Huambo
will be overhauled or rehabilitated as needed to restore normal operation of the
system. The substation of Alto Catumbela is the one that will require more
extensive work, since it is the most affected by the acts of sabotage.
@iii)    =      _atnbo distribution. The project will finance the execution of a study that will
examine the present state of the network, project future evolution of demand,
define the general criteria for network expansion, and identify the urgent
rehabilitation works that are necessary. The highest priority actions would then
be implemented under the project.
4.5   Capacity Building for Power Maintenance. The program will include the supply of
maintenance know-how for hydroelectric plants and transmission facilities in the form of technical
documentation and description of procedures, as well as training of power engineers and the
assignment of four foreign engineers and five technicians to key positions within the operation
and maintenance organization of the Northern and Central Systems. These experts will assist and
advice the local technicians on the implementation of the new methods of operation and
maintenance and establishment of an adequate organization for this activity.
4.6 Pilot Program of Prepayment Meters. The project will finance the purchase of 5,000
prepayment meters to be installed in Luanda as well as an adequate supply of magnetic cards for
two years. The program also includes consulting services to design the program, select the
equipment to be installed, sensitize the population of the target area, monitor the results and
prepare an extension in case the observed results warrant it.
4.7    CaachxJuildingforMhnagam. Tbis component will be addressed specifically to
three key areas of ENE: (i) account  and financial systems; (ii) stock management; and (iii)
commercial operations. Ihe consultants will be required to review and propose modifications



- 16-
to the existing financial and accounting systems and procedures, develop adequate management
information systems and internal controls and audits, completely overhaul the system and
procedures for meter reading, billing and collection, integrate the system of billing and collection
in the main system of accounts and establish adequate procedures for stock management. As
indicated before, similar actions in EDEL and SONEFE are being financed by the AfPB and
CCCE. The project will also finance the hiring of independent auditors for ENE and SONEFE.
4.8   Technical Assistance to the SEEA. The project will finance consulting services and
studies to establish the electricity law and regulatory framework of the power sector and define
the new organizational structure of the utilities, a team of experts for the coordination of all
projects in the Power Sector Rehabilitation Program and training for power engineers.
4.9    Rehabilitation of the Northern Power System. The project will finance engineering
studies and supervision of the rehabilitation works in the Cambambe power plant and substation,
ths Cambambe-Luanda transmission lines and the Cazenga and Viana substations. The African
Development Bank and the European Investment Bank will finance the execution of the works.
Project Preparation
4.10   Detailed inspections and engineering studies of the Cambambe-Luanda and Huambo-
Lomaum-Quileva transmission lines have been carried out by SONEFE, ENE and the Brazilian
utility FURNAS. The cost of rehabilitation is less than 40 percent of the cost of '*uilding new
lines and therefore constitutes the least-cost solution. Alternative engineering designs for major
components were examined and, within the constraint of available models and stocks of spare
parts, an optimal design was selected. lbe consulting engineering section of FURNAS has been
hired to prepare the bidding documents for the rehabilitation work in the transmission lines, with
fmancing from the PPF. These documents will be completed by June 1992, but preliminary
drafts have been reviewed by the Bank and found reasonable. Two experts that accompanied the
Bank's appraisal mission in February/March 1992, reviewed the available information and cost
estimates for the Cambambe power plant and for the different substations and found them also
reasonable.
4.11   The terms of reference for the study on the rehabilitation of the distribution network of
Huambo, the capacity building for power maintenance, the capacity building for management and
the Team of Experts for Project Coordination were originally prepared by Bank's staff. The final
format of these activities was defined after extensive discussions with the Angolan authorities.
A summary of these terms of reference is presented in Annexes 4.2 to 4.5.
Projeet Costs
4.12   Program and project costs are detailed in Annex 4.1 and summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Total program costs including contingencies but excluding taxes, is estimated at US$ 66.5
million, of which US$ 61.1 million (or 91.8 percent) are foreign exchange costs, all taxes
excluded. Physical contingencies of 15 percent were used for most of the overhaul works and
10 percent for the equipment. Price escalation for foreign costs is based on the expected
increases in international prices as estimated by the World Bank, while local costs were assumed
to follow the exchange rate increases plus a differential of 2 percent.



- 17 -
TabLe 4.1
Prearam Cost  urr
UISS mittos
Locat         Foreign        Total       X Foreign         X Total
Exchanoe       Base Costs
1. IDA FINANCED PROJECT
A. Rehab. of Northern System
Engineering studies and Superv.        0.0             1.5           1.5         100.0             5.1
B. Rehab. of Central System
1. Transmission lines                  0.8           11.5           12.3          93.5            22.7
2. Substations                         0.4            4.1            4.4          99.1             8.2
3. Nuambo Distribution                 0.5            2.6            3.1          83.9             5.7
Sub-Total                              1.7            18.1          19.8          91.6            36.7
C.  Prepayment Meters Program              0.1             0.8           0.9          97.2              1.6
D. Capacity BuiLding Maintenance           0.0             2.1           2.1         100.0              3.9
E.  Capacity Buitding Management           0.0             1.9           1.9         100.0              3.4
F. T.A to the SEEA
1. Studies & Instit. Reform            0.0            0.3           0.3          100.0             0.6
2. Project Coordination Team           0.0            3.1            3.1         100.0             5.7
Sub-TotaL                              0.0            3.4            3.4         100.0             6.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                       1.7            27.8          29.5          94.2            100.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.2            2.7            2.9          92.7            10.0
Price Contingencies                    0.3            2.9            3.3          89.9             11.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        Li.            33.5           5.7          93.6            121.0
1. PARALLEL FINANCED PROJECT
Rehab. of the Northern System
1. Cambambe PLant and Substations   0.2              4.0           4.2           95.5
2. Cambambe-Luanda Lines              2.3           18.6           20.9          89.7
3. Luanda Substations                 0.8            4.9            5.7          86.6
Total                                 3.2           27.6          30.8           89.6
1II.  TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                  5.4           61.1            A.5          91A.
Finanding Plan
4.13    Details of the financing plan are presented in Table 4.2. The foreign exchange cost of
the program will be financed by IDA (US$33.5 million), the AfDB (US$18.6 million), and the
EIB (US$9.0 million). The proposed IDA Credit will be made to the Government on standard
terms and conditions. The AfDB has approved a loan for the rehabilitation of the power sector
of approximately US$62.0 million, part of which will be used to finance the rehabilitation of the
Cambambe-Luanda transmission lines. The EIB has expressed interest in co-financing the
rehabilitation of the substations in the Northern System and will conduct a separate evaluation
mission in June, 1992. The contribution of the Government of Angola (US$5.4 million) will
cover local expenditures.



-18 -
NAPIM~~~~~
______________    A       Aount  X  Amout      X  I Aount    I    AMouXnt 
A. CanbaMbe Pltnt & S.hst.     0.3     6.6              0.0      4.1  69.2              4.2
B. Canibaboe-Luands LInes      1.4     6.5      18.6   83.2      0.0   0.0       2.3   10.3
C. Substations In Lumnd        0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      4.9  86.6       0.8   13.4
D. Centrat System Rehab.      22.1    91.2       0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0       2.1    8.8
E. Precainent Moters Proarm    1.0    97.00      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.3    3.0
F. Ceometv Buildins           -4.6   100.0       0.0    0.0    _0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0
0. T.A. to the SEEA            4.1   100.0                       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
TOTAL                         33.5    50.4      18.6   28.0      9.0  13.5       5.4    8.1
Pro3ect ImRlegnentation
4.14   The overall adminstration and coordination of the project will be the responsibility of the
Secretaria de Estado da Energia e Agpus. A Project Coordination Unit has been created
specifically for this purpose (para. 3.3). A team of experts, financed under the proposed project,
would assist this Unit in Its work and will be selected before credit effectiveness. Inplementation
Units will be created within ENE to supervise the execution of the rehabilitation program in the
Northern and Central Systems. It has been agreed with ENE that project management and
supervision for all physical rehabilitation components will be contracted to qualified consulting
firms that will work under terms of reference and contractual conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The existence of appropriate personnel of the SEEA to take care of the accounting needs of the
project will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit. Annual auditing of the project's
accounts will be performed by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Agreement has been
reached that the Bank would receive the report of the auditors within six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
4.15   Qualified foreign contractors will be hired for: (i) substations rehabilitation; (ii)
transmission lines rehabilitation, and (ii) distribution rebabilitation. An advance under the
Project Preparation Facility has been approved for the preparation of bidding documents for the
rehabilitation of the transmission lines and substations and it is expected that the bidding
documents will be ready by Juae 1992. To ensure that the rehabilitated installations are well kept
in the future, ample partia;pation of the local utilities' technicians in the execution of the works
is foreseen, as a means of providing them with on the job training. Terms of reference for the
team of experts for project coordination, the study of the rehabilitation of the distribution network
in Huambo, the capacity building for maintenance and the capacity building for management have
been prepared and agreed upon during negotiations (Annexes 4.24.5). Financing to initiate some
of these activities as soon as possible will also be provided through the PPF. For the capacity
building for maintenance component, a qualified foreign consultant, preferably an electric utility,
will be hired to provide the know-how and assist the local personnel during implementation.



- 19-
4.16         The project will be implemented over a five and a half year period and the
closing date will be December 31, 1997. The implementation schedule is presented in Annex
4.6, from which the estimated disbursement schedule presented in Table 4.3 has been derived.
The IDA credit will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, materials and
services and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for civil
works. Consulting services, technical assistance and training will be disbursed against 100
percent expenditures, excluding taxes. Annex 4.6 also shows a comparison of the expected
disbursement profile of this project with two relevant World Bank standard disbursement profiles
as updated in June 1991. The first of these corresponds to emergency reconstruction projects
financed by IDA for all regions; the second, to power projects in Africa. The disbursement
profile for the proposed project falls slightly behind in the first years, but thereafter it moves
between the two standard profiles.
Table 43
Disburseinent Schedule
YEAR          ANNUAL         CUMULATIVE
1992            1.6               1.6
1993            7.8               9.4
1994           11.5              20.9
1995            8.0              28.9
1996            4.1              33.0
1997            0.5              33.5
4.17   To expedite project execution and give the implementing agencies rapid access to the
funds of the Credit, two special accounts in foreign exchange, under the responsibilities of SEEA
and ENE, will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. These accounts will have
an inidal deposit of US$500,000 and US$1,000,000, respectively, and will be replenished as
needed, in accordance with established procedures. Disbursements against Statements of
Expenditures will be made for contracts of lesc than US$25,000. All other disbursements will
be fully documented. The Project Coordination Unit within the SEEA will be responsible for
record keeping and the safeguard of documents, which will be subject to inspection by the Bank's
supervision missions. The annual auditing of project accounts mentioned in para. 4.14 will have
a specific section for the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditures.
4.18   All construction services, materials and equipment to be financed by the proposed IDA
Credit would be purchased in accordance with World Bank guidelines. International competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for all contracts for works, equipment and materials
above US$250,000. For smaller contracts for tools and maintenance equipment, as well as for



-20-
the procurement of vehicles and computers where after sale service is important, up to an
aggregate maximum of about US$610,000, shopping on the basis of at least three quotations from
at least two different countries would be used. For some materials, up to an aggregate maximum
of about US$130,000, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the World Bank
would be used. All consultants and engineering services would be hired according to the World
Bank guidelines. Annex 4.6 shows a detailed implementation and procurement schedule. A
summary of procurement arrangements is presented in Table 4.4. All invitations to bid, proposed
awards and final contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be
subject to prior IDA reviews; this represents about 95 percent of IDA financing. In all cases,
the Bank's sample documenU would be used. No advance contracting or retroactive financing
would be required in the project.



-21-
TABLE 4.4
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCURENENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Procureent Method
WUS                     TASK NAME                     ICe       L          OTHER         TOTAL
1.0       PHYSICAL REIADILITATION WORKS
1.1       150 Kv Trans. Lines Rehab.                13.52                                13.52
(12.50)                              (12.50)
1.2       150 Kv Subst. Rehab.                       2.21                                 2.21
(1.76)                               (1.76)
1.3       Huambo Distrib. Rehab.                     1.28                                 1.28
(0.62)                               (0.62)
2.0       GOODS
2.1       Electrical Equipment                       4.10                                 4.10
(4.10)                               (4.10)
2.2       General Plant                                         0.13      0.61 */         0.74
(0.13)      (0.6          (0.74)
2.3       Electric Meters & Cards                    0.88                                 0.88
(0.88)                               (0.88)
3.0       CONSWLTANCIES
3.1       North System Rehab. Prep. Servcs.                                 0.52          0.52
(0.52)        (0.52)
3.2       North System Proj. Ngmt. & Superv.                                1.23          1.23
(1.23)        (1.23)
3.3       Central System Rehab. Prep. Servcs.                               0.50          0.50
(0.50)        (0.50)
3.4       Central Lines Proj Ngmt. Superv.                                  0.98          0.98
(0.98)        (0.98)
3.5       Central Subst. Proj. Mget. & Sup.                                 0.37          0.37
(0.37)        (0.37)
3.6       Huambo Distribution Study                                         0.52          0.52
(0.52)        (0.52)
3.7       Huambo Distr. Proj. Mgmt.& Superv.                                0.31          0.31
(0.31)        (0.31)
3.8       Monitoring of Prepay. Metering                                    0.15          0.15
(0.12)        (0.12)
3.9       T.A for Maint nance                                               2.35          2.35
(2.35)        (2.35)
3.10      T.A for Management                                                2.18          2.18
(2.18)        (2.18)
3.11      T.A for the SEEA                                                  3.86          3.86
(3.86)        (3.86)
21.99      0.13        13.58         35.69
TOTAL                                              (19.86)    (0.13)       (13.5S)      (33.52)
Note: Figures fn parentheses are the respective amoimts financed by the IDA credit.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LCB: Local Competitive BiddIng
*/     Shopping.



- 22 -
4.19 Tbis would be the first World Bank financed power project in Angola, and the staff of
the utilities has no previous experience in the application of the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. Therefore, it has been agreed with the authorities that consultants would be
retained to prepare bidding documents and assist in the evaluation of bids, and that the Bank's
sample documents would be used whenever possible. Participation of Angolan staff during the
preparation of the bidding documents is foreseen, as a means of providing them with training.
Furthermore, to avoid the risk of having a deficient coordination of multiple supply and
contractual arrangements, as well as the risks of theft and damages during handling in the ports
and in the course of inland transportation, it has been agreed with the borrower that, as much as
possible, the physical rehabilitation components would be contracted in large comprehensive
packages, including supply of materials and works. In this way, the contractor would centralize
the responsibility for coordination and general logistics.
4.20   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
b) comprehensive quarterly reports to Ae Bank by the borrower, indicating:
i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingency:
ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and
iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
^instQdng a d Rmfng
4.21 Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank every three months. The structure of these
reports will be defined during the first supervision mission. The proposed supervision plan is
detailed in Annex 4.7. Progress towards achieving the institutional reform objectives of the credit
will be examined by June 1993. At that time, the examination will concentrate in the legal and
regulatory framework for the electricity sector, the institutional and organizational structure of
the power sector, and the statutes and appointment of the Board of Directors of ENE. A mid-
term review will be held before December 1994 and will cover, among other aspects, the
following: (i) an assessment of the legal and institutional reforms; (ii) the pricing of electricity;
(iii) the improvements in management, accounting and commercial operations in ENE and EDEL;
(iv) the financial performance of ENE and EDEL; (v) the effectiveness of technical assistance;
and (vi) the overall implementation of the power sector rehabilitation program. During the
review, the Government and IDA will agree to the changes that are necessary in project
implementation.



-23 -
Environ_eia ConsidertIo
4.22 Therehabilitationoftheproposedtransmissionand distributionfacilitiesdoes nothave any
significant negative environmental impact. Commonly known and well-tried construction
practices would be used and the routes are defined by the existing lines. No diversion of water
during repairs of the hydropower station is contemplated and site disturbances at substations and
transmission towers will be minimal. The constructor will be required to remove the debris from
the sabotaged tower and this, together with the demining of the area, wUi have a positive
environmental impact. Discarded transformers and materials wIll be sold as scrap to a local
industry.
V. FlNANCIAL MASfL
Accounting Ila=X
5.1  Accounting and financial results have not been given adequate importance. The financial
results are not normally made public as required by the law and are produced with enormous
delays, if produced at all. ENE did not prepare any statement of accounts for the first eight years
since its establishment in 1980. However, ENE has recentdy prepared accounts for 1989 and
1990 with expatriate assistance, and is in the process of closing the accounts for 1991. SONEFE
had prepared regular balance sheets through 1988, but has been unable to close the accounts for
1989 and 1990 and is unlikely to do it for 1991. EDEL has drawn regular balance sheets and
since 1988 has produced relatively acceptable financial statements.
5.2 The availability of subsidies for investments and current outlays from the State Treasury
(*Orcamento General do Estado"- OGE) has contributed to the lack of adequate attention to
financial results and to the need of increasing collections from the sales of electricity. In 1990,
ENE received 1,583 million kwanzas from the OGE, which represented 3.5 times the revenues
from the sales of electricity and were enough to cover all its operating expenses, including
depreciation. SONEFE's receipts from the OGE represented in 1988 about 3.9 times the sales
of electricity. As indicated above (para. 2.11), the Government has increased tariffs and ended
the need of subsidies for operating expenses for the power sector as a whole. This will be
reflected in increased attention to financial performance and revenue collection activities in the
udlities. During negotiations, it was agreed that electricity should be cut to all delinquent
consumers, including govement agencies, if accounts are not settled within two months of
biUling. This covenan will reinforce actions that are already been taken by ENE in certain small
cities (para. 3.18) and provide an appropriate legal basis for the decisive actions that the utilities
are willing to undertake.
5.3 At the present time, ENE, SONEFE and EDEL have different plans of accounts. ENE's
accounts are based on the National Plan of Accounts, which by Law 11/88 is required from all
state enterprises. The accounts are prepared at its headquarters in Luanda, but the accounting
and financial sections lack adequa  qualified and trained staff. The data processing equipment
(both hardware and pardtularly software) is outdated and non performing. The data used in the
preparation of acounts is based on information provided by the various units spread across the
country, and is incomplete, of doubtfitI reliability and received only after long delays.
Furthermore, the value of ENE's fixed assets is derived from an inventory evaluation carried out



-24 -
in 1988, which was done on the basis of available documents and is totally unreliable. Since
then, there has been no adjustment in values for the damage and destruction of assets during the
civil war or for inflation. The value of materials and stocks is also inaccurate, since there is no
adequate system for stock control.
5.4 SONEFE's accounts through 1988 were prepared on the basis of a plan of accounts
inherited from the pre-independence period, which is outdated and not relevant to the present
situation of the utility. For example, it involves a complex form of depreciation linked to a
system of concession that does not exist anymore. SONEFE has not developed internal expertise
to use the available accounting software, and more recently, acquired a "newer" software with
the objective of preparing its 1990 accounts. Available indications are that this software is not
appropriate to its needs and will have to be changed. SONEFE has deficiencies similar to those
of ENE, such as lack of trained and qualified personnel, outdated data processing equipment,
unreliable historically valued flxed assets without adjustment for war damage and destruction, and
doubtful value of stocks and materials. A Joint Commission established by SEEA and the
Ministry of Finance is expected to define the criteria for asset valuation by end June 1992. All
utilities should start as soon as possible a process of taking inventory and valuation of their assets
and agreement was reached durini, negotiations that the Government will submit to the Bank the
results of this exercise before June 30, 1994. Expatriate technical assistance will be available for
this exercise. Verification and valuation of stocks and materials is also urgently needed.
5.5   The utilities are aware of their accounting deficiencies and the Government authorities, as
well as management, recognize the need to become efficient and financially viable. In order to
comprehensively and systematically address the above problems in ENE, a capacity building for
management component has been included in the proposed project. This component complements
the action that the CCCE of France has financed in EDEL and the AfDB in SONEFE. Full
details of the scepe of the consultants' services required is given in Annex 4.3. The services
include: (a) review and modify the existing financial and accounting systems and procedures, (b)
design budgetary planning and control systems, (c) develop an adequate management information
system to monitor and control the utility's performance; (d) propose modifications to the present
organization structure of the Finance Department to improve its effectiveness; (e) determine
staffing needs in terms of number and necessary skills; (f) determine the data processing
requirements; (g) assist the utility in preparing of inventory of fixed assets, design an assets
classification system, determine depreciation policies, and develop a set of criteria for future asset
revaluation; (O) develop and adequate internal control/audit system and procedures; (i) prepare
a comprehensive staff training program; U) implement the proposed new systems with active
involvement and participation of the utility's staff. These actions are expected to result, among
others, in the development of "in house" capability to adequately prepare reliable and timely
management reports, annual financial statements, annual budgets and long-term financial plans.
5.6  In addition, since ENE lacks an adequate system to follow-up consumer accounts, in terms
of both the amounts billed and the amounts received, the capacity building for management
component will also provide assistance for improvements in the commercial area. This includes:
(a) updating the list of consumers and their consumption, billing and payment records; (b)
complete overhaul of system and procedures for meter reading, billing, bill delivery and
collection; (c) recommendations on the hardware and software for computerization of the billing
process and for control of customer accounts; (d) recommendations on measures for improving
coordination between the technical department responsible for connection and disconnection and



-25 -
the commercial section responsible for billing and control/audit of customer accounts (e)
recommendation on measures to collect the amounts due and to discourage illegal consumption;
and (f) integration of the billing and collection system within the main system of accounts. The
proposed actions, should lead to an improvement in the cash flow of the utility.
Aud&
5.7 In addition to the lack of proper internal controls, the accounts of ENE and SONEFE have
never been audited by the Ministry of Planning, which has the legal responsibility for this
activity, nor by any other auditing institution. The assistance tc be provided through the project
will have no effect on improving the 1992 accounts, but should help in accelerating their closing.
Nevertheless, an audit of these accounts should be required to set a precedent and familiarize the
utilities with the procedures. During negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, would be engaged to carry out timely audit of the financial statements of
ENE; and (b) the audited statements would be annually submitted to the Bank within nine months
after the end of the fiscal year for FY92 and FY93 and within six months for each fiscal year
thereafter. The project includes the financing of these independent auditors. The presentation
of terms of reference and a short list for the selection of auditors is a condition for the
effectiveness of the credit.
Insr
5.8  ENE maintains insurance coverage for the utility's assets and some risks liabilities with
the national insurance company. The assets are, however, insured at their historical cost in local
currency, and therefore, do not reflect the current values. A thorough review of the insurance
requirements should only be undertaken after the completion of the full inventory and valuation
of assets.
Past Finandal Results
5.9  ENE's Income Statements and Balance Sheets for the years 1989 and 1990 are given in
Annexes 5.1 and 5.2. Because of the deficiencies explained above, the results are unlikely to
represent a correct and reliable picture of the financial situation. Therefore, the discussions in
the following paragraphs should be considered mainly as indicative of ENE's financial results.
In the 1980's, ENE was assigned a commercial activity-to purchase and sell electric materials
to the public-which has been gradually phased out. Revenues from this activity represented
about 50 percent and 25 percent of total revenues in 1989 and 1990, respectively, but separate
or identifiable accounts were not maintained.
5.10 ENE's financial performance for the two years was poor. Its operating revenues were
substantially short of even its cash operating expenses. In 1989, total operating revenues were
610 million Kwanzas while operating expenses before depreciation were 743 million Kwanzas,
a deficit of 133 million Kwanzas. In 1990, the deficit was even larger (405 million Kwanzas)
since total operating revenues were only 753 million Kwanzas (an increase of 23 percent over the
preceding year) while operating expenses increased to 1150 million (Kwanzas an increase of over



-26 -
50 percent). ENE's fuld expenses (reflecting the volum, of dectricity generad from thermal
plants and the cost of fud), has a significant effect on Its operating expenses. In 1990, the fuel
cost was about the same as the total revenues from sales of electricity. In 1989, this cost element
was lower and represented 68 percent of dectricity sales. The need to operate and maintain
thermal plants because of the damages in the Huambo-Lomaum-Quleva transmission line, as well
as to supply some small isolated systems, contributed to the overall high cost of operation of
ENE. The situation will be gready improved with the execution of the proposed project that will
make available low cost hydroelectric energy to Huambo, Lobito and Benguela.
S.1 Between 1989 and 1990, accounts receivable increased by 235 million Kwanzas, from 490
million Kwanzas to 725 million Kwanzas, an increase of nearly 50 percent. However, electricity
sales in 1990 were only 448 million Kwanzas. It would, therefore, appear that ENE collected
less than 50 percent of its electricity sales. Account receivables are very high and in 1990 they
represented about 19 months of electricity sales. lTe public sector is the major contributor to
this unhealthy situation, but on the other hand ENE receives huge subsidies for operational
expenses from the state budget (OGE). Even though ENE has been running huge deficits in its
operations, its cash as well as the rest of the working capital has increased substantially. In 1990,
the cash balance of 681 million Kwanzas (254 million Kwanzas in 1989) was high and
represented about 7 months of its average cash operating expenses. These huge cash balances
are not conductive to management actions towards controlling costs and reducing current accounts
receivable. The standard ratios, such as curret ratio and debt-equity ratio, looks satisfactory,
but since the debt service is assumed by OGE and the values of fixed and current assets are
unreliable, these ratios are not particularly meanngfil.
5.12 SONEFE's Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1988, are given in Annexes 5.3 and
5.4. For reasons somewhat similar to those of ENE, these accounts may not represent a true and
fair picture of its financial situation and should only be considered as indicative of SONEFE's
financial result for the year, which I a*s marginally acceptable. Its operating revenue of 416
million Kwanzas covered its cash operating expense of 314 million Kwanzas and about 80 percent
of the entire depreciation, which incidentally, is the single largest expense item. SONEFE had
a negative "net income" of 34 million Kwanzas for the year. Accounts receivable were high (341
million Kwanzas) and almost equal to the revenue for the year from sales of electricity. Cash
balance were only 21 million Kwanzas, which was low and represented less than one month's
average cash operating expenses. The current ratio, as well as the other standard ratios, also look
satisfactory; however, in view of the inaccuracy and unreliability of the values of assets, these
ratios are not particularly meaningfil, as in the case of ENE.
5.13 The projected income statemens of ENE for the years 1992 to 1995 are given in Annex
5.5. ENE's operatfng revenues in 1992 and 1993, based on the tariffs in effect from January
1992, would be short of cash operating expenses which take into account the large increase in
fuel prices and salaries. The revenues would not cover even the fuel expense in each one of
those years. On the other hand, the current tariffs would achieve an almost break-even status in
1994 and 1995, since rehabilitation of the hydro electric plant and of the transmission lines in the
Central Systems, financed under the proposed project, is expected to be completed in 1994.



-27 -
S. 14 An aeravage  cres of about 150 perceat in the current tariffs would be required to break-
even in 1992 and 1993, but these tariffs would rewlt in significant operational surpluses for ENE
in 1994 and 199S. It would nt make much s-e to raise tariffs substantially at this time with
the sole objective of achieing "break-even" status in 1992 and 1993, and then be faced with the
prospect of reducing those tariffs when the hydroelectric plants come on stream. Furthermore,
at the present time, particularly in the larger cities, the customers have an indifferent attitude
towards paying their electricity bills, and the utility's billing and collection is haphazard;
therfore, a large tariff inee  is likely to be counterproductive, vwith some of the regularly
paying customes becoming delinquent and illegal consumption increasing.  Significant
improvements in the areas of billing, bill delivery and collection of amounts due, should precede
a large tariff increase. In addition, the utility has to make fully clear to its customers its
determination to Improve the quality and reliability of its services and to collect the amounts due,
with particular emphasis on timely collection from government agencies and state enterprises.
S.1S Under the present tariffs, ENE is expected to have operating deficits of about 3,400 million
Kwanzas and 3,S00 million Kwanzas in 1992 and 1993 respectively, which are expected to be
made up by subsdies from the Treasury. As indicated before, the subsidies to ENE will be
compensated by surpluses in SONEFE and EDEL.
5.16 SONEFE's projected Income Statements for the years 1992 to 1995 are given in Annex
5.4. The projected revenues, based on tariffs in effect from January 1992, cover cash operating
xpenses throughout the entire four-year period. The revenues almost cover depreciation expense
in the first two years, but fall far short of this expenses in 1994 and 1995 due to the large
increase in depreciation arising fom a new plant coming into operation. A tariff increase of
about 20 percent would be required in 1994 for operating revenues to meet all operating expenses
in 1994 and 1995.
6.1 The program will rebabilitate some key infrastructure of the electric power systems of
AnSgola and will therefore contnbute to create an enabling environment for economic recovery
and growth. The rehabilitation works in the Northern System will provide low cost and reliable
hydroelectric power to the main center of economic activity in the country. The works to be
executed in the Central System, complemented by the rehabilitation of the Lomaum hydroelectric
power plant under execution and financed by Portugal, will have the same effects on Huambo,
Lobito and Benguela, which are the most important secondary centers and regional poles of
growth. The execution of the program will remove an important botdteneck that at the present
tme hinders eoonomic growth and contributes to the deterioration of the social environment in
urban rom. Industral ctdvity is today about half of what existed at the time of independence
and, with the expectadon that an investor-friendly business environment is going to be
established, this activity can pick-up very rapidly and will require adequate and reliable power
availability.



- 28 -
6.2 Rehabilitation of the transmission lines constitutes the least-cost alternative to meet the
existing and potential demand for electricity. As indicated in the ESMAP Report titled "EQ=
Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance (Report No. 142/91, October 1991) these works
constitute the investments of the highest priority that must be undertaken without delays. The
execution of rehabilitation works was only made possible by the signing of the Peace Agreements
in May, 1991, that eliminated the risk of further sabotage and destruction. At this stage, project
delays will have adverse effects on economic activity, increase insecurity and contribute to the
deterioration of the social environment. Alternative engineering designs for the major works
were considered and the optimal solutions were chosen.
6.3   Major benefits of the project are expected from  improvements in the policy and
institutional areas. These improvement will also result in a positive impact on the social
environment and on the long-run economic development of the country. While these benefits
cannot be quantified, direct economic benefits for the principal rehabilitation works can be
measured in terms or ie reduction in the costs of supplying the required electric power and the
elimination of the outages due to faults in the transmission lines. Without the rehabilitation of
these lines, the principal consumption centers will continue to rely on high cost thermal
generation. The methodology used to measure the benefits of the substitution of energy supply
sources brought about by the project is explained in Annex 6.1. The resulting economic internal
rates of return for each section to be rehabilitated are presented in Table 6.1 below and the
average weighted by investment costs is 37 percent. If the rate of growth of demand is reduced
in half, the weighted average rate of return is 32 percent.
6.4  The project will also provide assistance to establish a legal and institutional framework in
the power sector, separating the regulatory function of the Government from the administration
and management of the utilities, and to develop autonomous and efficient power companies. At
the same time, it addresses key policy issues in the sector, such as electricity tariffs,
governmental subsidies, investment priorities and economic efficiency. These actions will lay
the institutional foundation for sustainable and efficient operations in the sector and contribute to
the building of institutional capacity in the country.
Table 6.1- Economic Viability of Rehabilitation Works
Rate of return (pe:cent)
1.   Rehabilitation of Northern System            37
2.   Lomaum-Huambo Section of Central System      30
3.   Lomaum-Quileva Section of Central System     60
AVERAGE                                     37
Proect Risks
6.5 All the rehabilitation works to be executed use proven methods, equipment and technology,
and will be executed by foreign contractors and consultants with broad experience in carrying out
similar works. The only physical risk is that the demining of the right of way of the transmission



- 29 -
lines, which is being undertaken by the Army, will not be completed on time. During
negotiations, the Government informed the Bank of the advances in these areas and agreed to
engage private contractors to complete the required demining before contract awards. The limited
skilled staff available in the power utilities and the SEEA could affect project implementation and
the adequate operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities. To reduce this risk,
extensive use will be made of foreign consultants and experts in the design, control and
supervision of the project. The capacity building component for operations and maintenance will
provide for the presence of foreign experts for an extended period to adequately train the local
personnel, while the engineering consultants will supervise the works and control the quality of
the results.
6.6      Another set of risks Is related to the institutional and economic objectives. The
authorities may waiver in their commitment to move rapidly in the development of the new
institutional structure for the power sector and in the creation of efficient and commercially viable
autonomous power companies. The Government has demonstrated willingness to implement
economic reforms and this may suggest that this risk is low. While the Government has also
moved decisively to increase electricity tariffs, the population may resist paying the higher prices
while there are no improvements in the quality of services, and the utilities may not be effective
in improving their billing and collection methods. The approach that has been taken to design
the tariff increases already considers these risks. The capacity building component in the area
of financial management is in an advanced stage of preparation and will be executed without
delays, so that some impact on the commercial operations of ENE will be obtained quite soon.
On the other hand, similar actions for EDEL are being financed by the AfDB and CCCE of
France and in one case the consulting services have already been chosen. Improvements in
billing and collections have been given first priority in the implementation of the project.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1   During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)      the Government will increase every six months electricity tariffs to reach,
not later than December 31, 1993 a level sufficient to cover operating
expenses (excluding depreciation) for the electricity power sector,
calculated on a consolidated basis (para. 2. 11);
(b)      the Government will submit to the Association for its comments, not later
than December 31, 1993, a tariff study, including an analysis of the long-
run marginal cost of supply, and will implement the recommendatiot!. of
such study not later than June 30, 1994 (para. 2.12);
(c)       beginning June 30, 1994, the Government will maintain a tariff structure
for the electricity sector based on the long-run marginal cost of supply and
sufficient to cover operating expenses and depreciation for the electricity
power sector on a consolidated basis (paras. 2.11 and 2.12);
(d)      the Government will undertake annual reviews with the Association on



-30-
tariffs structure and level (para. 2.11).
(e)       by November 1 of each year, the Government wUl submit to the
Association a rolling investment program in the power sector for the next
three years (para. 2.15);
(f)       the Government will submit before March 31, 1993, proposals for the
legal and regulatory framework of the electricity sector that will, among
other things, separate the regulatory function of the State from the
management and administration of power utilities, and for the new
insdtutional and organizational structure of the power sector, and
implement the recommendations before June 30, 1993 (paras. 3.8 and
4.3);
(g)       the Government will submit before March 31, 1993, a proposal for the
restructuring of ENE, including the new statutes and appointment of a
Board of Directors, and implement the proposal before June 30, 1993
(paras. 3.6 and 3.8);
(h)       starting with fiscal year 1993, the annual budgets of all government
agencies and public enterprises will include a provision sufficient to cover
the estimated costs of electricity consumption and these institutions will
settle all invoices received from the power utilities within 60 days of the
date of receipt (para. 3.18);
(i)       ENE and EDEL will systematically cut off the supply of electricity to all
delinquent consumers, including government agencies and public
enterprises, that do not settle their accounts within two months (para. 5.2);
U)'"      ENE wili carry out an inventory and valuation of its assets and will
present the result to the Association before June 30, 1994 (para. 5.4);
(k)       ENE will employ qualified and independent external auditors and will send
audited accounts to the Association within nine months aft  the end of the
fiscal years 1992 and 1993 and within six months after the end of fiscal
years thereafter (para. 5.7);
0I)       the SEEA will send to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each year, audited project accounts which would include the special
account and the statement of expenditures (paras. 4.14 and 4.17); and
(m)       a mid-term Review will be undertaken within 24 months of credit
effectiveness and will cover, among oher things, an assessment of the
legal and institutional reforms, electricity pricing, improvements in
management and commercial operations and financial performance of ENE
and EDEL and overall implemention of the power sector rehabilitation
program (para. 4.21).



-31-
Condidons of Credit   tm
7.2 The following conditions of effectiveness were agreed:
(a) the Project Coordination Unit (UCP) within the SEEA shall have been established
and the staff squired for its activities shall have been appointed, including
adequate accounting expertise (puas. 3.3 and 4.14);
(b) consultant's services that wUI assist the SEEA in coordinating the power sector
rehabilitation program shall have been contracted (para. 4.14);
(c) ENE shall nave established and staffed a Project Implementation Unit for the
execution of the project (para. 4.14); and
(d) preparation of terms of reference and a shortlist of auditors to carry out the audit
of the financial statements of ENE. (para. 5.7).
R2cmmendation
7.3 With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$ 33.5 million
on standard terms.



Page 1 of 3
(Unofficial translation)
To:   Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Dear Mr. Director:
1.     Angola has initiated a process of transition towards a multi-party, democratic society, and a
market-oriented economy. After more than 15 years of civil war, the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of infrastructure in the power sector, as well as the design and implementation of a new
legal and institutional framework for the sector, is a fundamental and urgent task in order to support
improvements in the social and economic conditions of the country and face the challenges of the
future.
At this stage, Government priorities in the power sector are as follows:
(i)    Reconstruct and rehabilitate the power plant, transmission line, and distribution
networks, so as to restore the capacity of installations, and increase the reliability
of power supply;
(ii)   Improve the efficiency of enterprises in the power sector, particularly by increasing
their financial and managerial autonomy;
(iii)   Eliminate state subsidies for the operawing expenses of the power utilities;
(iv)   Set up a tariff structure based on long-run marginal cost .--d establish actual tariff
levels that cover the full cost of supply;
(v)    Establish a new legal and institutional framework for the sector that defines the
regulatory function of the state, ensures the autonomy of enterprises, and allows for
private sector participation;
(vi)   Program new investments based on a least-cost expansion plan and ensure their
financing;
(vii)   Upgrade the qualifications of the human resources employed in the sector through
training and staff development programs.
2.      Ihe most essendal and urgent reconstruction aad rehabilitation actions have been identified
following several missions of experts from multilateral and bilateral agencies. These actions are



ANNIX1
Page 2 of 3
included in a document titled "nafitructre Mbaklitation Progum" dated September 1991, which
was based on the report prepared by the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP). FPnancing has already been secured for some of these actions, but
we estimate that the remaining needs may be over USD 400 million.
3.     Among the contemplated actions for the rehabilitation of infrastructures and major generation
centers, the State Secretariat for Energy and Water (SEEA) has given priority to the work on high
voltage transmission lines and on distribution networks serving the main population areas. The
rehabilitation of transmission lines is indispensable to bring hydro-electricity to the major
consumption areas and reduce the costs entailed by thermal generation. The rehabilitation of the
distribution networks will improve the reliability of power supply, which will help in creating the
necessary credibility to implement tariff increases and take effective actions against customers in
arrears.
4.     To coordinate the execution of the rehabilitation projects, a special Project Coordinating Unit
has been created at the SEEA. TIis Unit will be backed by adequate technical assistance and will
provide the power sector with the necessary support to ensure that all investment and technical
assistance projects are adequately designed, coordinated, planned and executed. To further improve
coo: ination, we are also planning to organize, in cooperation with the World Bank, regular meetings
with all donor countries and organizations.
5.     the Government has already implemented a few important measures to improve the
efficiency and balance tie financial situation of power utilities. Effective January 1, 1992, electricity
ariffs were substantilly increased so as to reduce the operating deficit of the power sector. The
increase in low voltage tariffs in Luanda was about 450 percent in relation to the level that existed
in October, 1991. The Government is committed to continue this program and maintain electricity
tariffs at a level that eliminates the need of subsidies for operating expenses through transfers from
the general budget of the state.
6.     To reach this objective, a new financial framework for the relations between the Ministry
of Finance and the power utilities is being defined. This new framework will, in particular, establish
a system for the automatic adjustment of electricity prices. A comprehensive tariff study is also
undertake by Electricit6 de France International (EDF). The results of this study will be available
in December 1993 and will help establish a tariff structure based on long-run marginal cost.
7.     A number of imporant institutional decisions have also been taken to improve efficiency and
rationalize processes, with substantial practical consequences. For example, the Companh a Electrica
do Lobito e Benguela (CELB) and the Sociedade Nacional de Estudos e Financiamento de
Empreendimentos Ultramarinos (SONEFE) have been integrated into the Empressa Nacional de
Electricidade (ENE). As a result of its merger with SONEFE, ENE is undergoing a global
reorganization. In order to increase the financial and managerial autonomy of the company, improve
its efficiency, and ensure that management will be fully responsible for the results they achieve, ENE
will have new staes approved by March 1993.
8.     The legal fraework for the power sector, which is presendy being revised by the
Government, is aimed at clariffing the forms of State intervention, particularly with respect to the
definition of sector policy and regulation. Private sector participation is being considered for new
generation facilitdes and for electicity distribution. The possibility of opening of the capital of the
State enterprises to the private sector is also under study. The new Electricity Law, which will



MANEXI
Page 3 of 3
formulate the principles and regulate the operation of the power sector, is expected to be adopted
before June 1993.
9.     The instability that prevailed until the conclusion of the recent peace accords prevented the
consistent development of demand projections. The current improved conditions will enable SEEA
to give priority to the analysis of market condidons and the study of consumption projections, which
will serve as a base for the development an expansion plan for generation and transport in the
country's various power systems. For this purpose, technical assistance will be used, particularly that
of EDF-International, who is expected to produce a study of market projecdons and develop A least
cost expansion plan. On that basis, SEEA wIll prepare an investment plan for the future.
10.    The shortage of qualified human resources and the excess of labor with little or no
qualification is one of the major problems faced by the sector, and one that cannot be solved without
amending national labor regulations. Although all contracts for the physical rehabilitation of facilities
include training components, and there are also selfstanding training programs for staff of low to
medium qualification, the results achieved have not always been up to expectations. The SEEA is
presently stud; ing, with the support of EDF International, the creation of a National Training Institute
for Professionals in the Power Sector, and, together with the Project Coordination Unit, intends to
improve the coordination of international aid, provide a more effective support to the sector in the
definition and coordinaton of technical assistance projects in the area of training. In addition,
enterprises will be required to structure career streams that take into account these training programs.
The SEEA will implement a system for the follow-up and evaluation of actions taken in the area of
training while enterprises will define evaluation criteria for the professional development of the staff,
as well as mechanisms to interface with training programs.
Sincerely yours,
Joaquim Quelhas Mota
Sectry of State for Energy and Water
Washington, May 20, 1992



ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 2
ANGOLA
nstalled and Available Gnerating Capacity In June 1991 (Part 1)
Syem amnd         Name of       Type   Nu_e of Unts         Capacity              Date of        Date of
PFveince          Fa                    amnd Unit Power       OmW)                Commnisson     Unavailability
(a)     Odm)                 natmWed   Available   Month/Year    Monflt/Year
Nooik
KuaM N.           Cinbanibe    H        245 + 2x4S            180.0      13S.0   1963,1973
Bongo            Mfabubas       H      2x3 + 2x.9              17.8        -      19S3.19S9      2/1988
Luands            Luanda TOl   CT       lx25.6                25.6        20.0   1980
LuandaTl2   CT        lx31.2                31.2        30.0   8/198S
Subtoed                                                      254.6       185.0
Central
fEaegueb          Lomaun        H       2xlO + IxIS            3S.0        -      1964,1972      3/1983
BiOpio        H       4x3.6                  14.4     10,8      1957
Diopba       cT       lx22.8                22.8         -      2/1974         1988
Biopio        D       2xl.S                  3.0         -      1982
Lobito       D        4x (b)                20.0         S.0   1986            1989
Huambo            Huambo        CT      Ix0 (c)               10.0       10.0   1981
Huamibo      D       4x0.8 + 2x0.85          4.9         0.8    19S3-1986
Subtoad                                                       110.1       26.6
South
Hulla             Maabla        H       2xl3.6                27.2        13.6   19S9            1984
Lubango      D        3x0.4 + 12x0.2         3.6         -      n.d
Namibe       D        2xS.7S                11.5        11.2   1980
To,nbwa       D         xl.6                 1.6               1970
-ambn         D       3x1.9                  S.7         -      1968
Saco         D        2x1.4S                 2.9                n.d
Subtotal                                                      S2.5        24.8
a) H- Hydrodeectic; CT- Gas Turbine; D- Disl
b) Raway carrige munted
c) 1SO sating 13,S bMW. Dcrating of 26% due to altitude
Souxe: ESMAP, AnuJ Power RLbIhahitdobn nd eMIchro Ahhinre, Report No. 142/91, October 1991.



ANX  2-1
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: Inslalled Capacity and Generation In Angob
Installed and Available Generadng Capadty In June 1991  rt 2)
System and  Name of  Type  Number of Units  Cpacity               Dat of          Date of
Province    Plant           and Unit Power  (MW)                  Commission      Unavaaility
(a)   (MW)            lIstalled    Availablo  Monda/Y.ar   Monthi/Yoar
Isolated
Systems
Cabinda    Malongo   OT    lx12.3            12.3       10.0      1980
-         Moved     D      3xl.5             4.5        1.5      8/1971
-         Cacongo   D      4x0.3             1.2        1.2      .d.
Uige        Luquixe   H     3x0.36            1.1        1.1      19S7,1968,1971
-         Uige      D      3x0.6             1.1        1.1
-         Movel    D       lxl.S             1.5        1.5      1982
Luanda N    lAaxiMo   H     4x2.4             9.6        -        19S7
-         LuXIO     D      lxl.5             1.5        -        n d.
-         Lucapa    D      2x3.2             6.4        -        n.d.
Bie         Andulo    H      2xO.OS           0.1                 n sd.
-         Kunje     H      3x0.54            1.6        -        1/1971
-         Coemba   H       2MA.01            0.2        -        nsd.
-          ;Kuito   D       lx.08+1xO.S      1.3                 n sd.
Moxico      Luona     D     2x0.6             1.2        -        1974
Huila       Kubango   H     2xM.IS            0.3        -        8/1972
Subtotal                                     44.6       16.7
Total Angola                                 461.8      253.1



ANNEX 2.2
ANGOLA
TOTAL ELECTIUCITY GENERATION, DISTRIBUTION AND LOSSES
(1967-1991)
GCner ticn           _        Dlstrfbutfan */                      Losses
Index        Growth rate         Index    Ovowth rste
Year        GIA        1974-100    X p.a        VA       1974-100      Xp.a.   oGh            X of
Ceneretion
1967       390.8       38.0          -         372.8    40.6                     18.0          4.6
1968       456.8       44.4         16.9       433.3    47.1           16.2      23.6           5.2
1969       541.5       52.6         18.5       519.0    56.5           19.8      22.5           4.2
1970       643.8       62.6         18.9       618.9    67.3           19.2      24.9           3.9
1971       741.9       72.1         1S.3       702.0    76.4           13.4      39.9           5.4
1972       838.8       81.5         13.0       787.2    85.6           12.1      51.6           6.2
1973       984.3       95.7         17.3       914.5    99.5           16.2      69.8           7.1
1974     1 028.8      100.0          4.5       919.2   100.0            0.5     109.6          10.7
1975       838.8       81.5        -18.S       768.6    83.6          -16.4      69.7           8.3
1976       S32.1       S1.?        -36.5       487.9   S531           -36.5      44.2           8.3
1977       558.8       54.3          4.9       511.9    55.7            4.9      46.3           8.3
1978       583.2       56.7          4.5       540.6    S8.8            5.6      42.6           7.3
1979       649.4       63.1         11.4       596.8    64.9           10.4      S3.S           8.3
1980       690.3       67.1          6.3       626.1    68.1            4.9      63.8           9.2
1981       716.5       69.6          3.8       644.0    70.1            2.9      72.5          10.1
1982       778.6       75.7          8.7       712.6    77.5           10.7      66.0           8.5
1983       763.8       74.2         *1.9       686.6    74.7           -3.6      77.2          10.1
1984       726.4       70.6         -4.9       634.3    69.0           -7.6      92.1          12.7
1985       704.8       68.5         -3.0       60S.0    6S.8           -4.6      99.8          14.2
1986       753.5       73.2          6.9       636.2    69.2            5.2     117.3          15.6
1987       614.9       59.8        -18.4       n.a.      n.m.          n.o.      n.s.         n.a.
1988       842.6       81.9         37.0       n.s.      n.s.          n.s.      n.s.         n.a.
1989       885.9       86.1          S.1       n.e.      n.s.          n.s.      n.s.         n.s.
1990       77.8        7S.6        -12.2       n.e.      n.s.          n.s.      n.a.         n.e.
1991       935.6       90.9         20.3       n.e.      n.a.          n.s.      n.s.         n.a.
a/ UDistributIonU figres aepperently fnclude los.. In WV (60 kV *nd lower) dIstributIon networks
Surce:  ESAP rports Moo 7408-MG and 142/91  nd SEEA



ANNEX 2.3
Page I of 2
THERMAL PLANTS
CURRENT SlTUAT AND AClOSI R9S
Nordthm Syste
1.                  Gas Turbines t Luanda. lb two gm tubies bdong to SONEFE. The fit
ga tubine (GTI) with an installed capacity of 25.6 MW and available capiy of 20 MW was Insled
in 1980. A second gas tubine (GT2) with an installed capacity of 31.2 MW  ad avalblo capacity of
30 MW was installed in 1985. Both were supplied undr trnkoy coneao. The protection system of
GTI needs to be replaced and the excitation system refiubished. 'Me ouput of the gs turbines i deratod
becuse of lack of maintenance. A sufficient supply of spare part should be madeo milablo to reduce
outage times. G02 is not equipped with a start-up system of its own and requires the asiance of GTI.
A modification to the LV busbar layout would be enough to circumvet this problem. lbe chan  of the
LV busbar of the two units allows the utilization of the auxilay diesl gneator of GII to start-up GT2
under conditon of total system blackout and unavailbility of OTI. Both units woe in reaomnably good
condition and had been nning for less than 3000 hours until 1989. Even after he Intallhaon of G12
In 1985 their use was rather limited. However, the 1990 more frquet ubotBg acton  led to the use
of both units for prolonged periods of time. Both OTI and 012 ar fie with jet-B fuel altdough both
could be fired with lower grade fuds. The fuel s radily avable nd tuckd from the refinery at
SONANGOL. Jet-B fud costs about 7 f more than soil. Puel store caty on site allows operation
of both units for about 130 hours.
Cetal SIem
2.                  Gms lrbin at Blpo. The un, which ws co sioned In 1974, is presently
unavaiable due to a coupling problem. The unit Is located at tho 150 kV Bioplo substtion which
InterConnet the two networks of CELD ad ENE.  he unt wu npird in Nombe 1989, replacing
the lubricaing ad oooling systems. At that time the unit h  been operatod for about 26,000 hours. The
unit should have ban rommisond aft replacing tho burin  and su   a the DNA 1/ had already
approved the finaci  of thi repair. Iht repair had not be  made at the tim of the mission. A report
on the situation at Bioplo is being prepared by the manufacur J. Brown, with a report to be available
in May 1992.
3.                    ir     Mnt  Dirn Plant at L_bito. The 4z5 MW  nims wor installed in
1986. They have n avragp opeat  tme rangn from 7,000-13,000 bou  V. At he time of the
1990 mission only one unit was avaiable, Its output rduced to 4.5 MW to avoid ovedhati  due In part
JV    Aol& Natnl flaL
21   'TheAndusqus        mnu&adbySMT PF *is 19W. lqwopuubat lOWpadum  dimolooL
Aho Adu_*s wa te mumuht  ofdth emasu. lb umud ont ofo Mab s S MW.



ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 2
to problems In the supercargers. The unit X operated to meet the peak demand, or base loaded if thre
is umfficiet capacity in the sylstm. Tbe unit is started many times a day for 1-3 hours of operation.
The efficiency of the units is about 36 %. Life expectancy for well-maintained similar units is about
80,000-120,000 hours.  Units 1,2, and 3 were probably damaged from overheating. Preventive
maieance of the plant was never undertaken and there is a lack of spare part.. All units require a
complee overhaul of the diesel engines, particularly of the turbochargers and valves. ENE contacted
(1989) the manufacturer and a quotation of about USS 600,000 was tentatively given to repair one unit.
A loan from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in the amount of UOS 13.8 million
for the rehabilitation of this plant and that at Nambe was approved already in 1991. The financing
packe also includes US$ 2 million for technical advisory services. The cost of this rehabilitation
project is expensive (about USS 400/kW), considering that the rehabilitation of just one unit only had
been esimated at USS 600,000 - 700,000 (about USS 140/kW). Without bmowing the details of this
finat icing package, it is not possible to comment on it any farither.
4.                  Gas Turbine Plant Huambo. The gas turbine at Huambo was Insalled in 1981
and itended for stand-by duty. The nameplate rating is 13.5 MW, but the unit is opeated at a derated
capity of 10 MW. The unit was overhauled between 1988 and 1989 and put back into service in
November 1989 under a five year maintenance contract.
Suhern Svs.
S.                  Diesd Plant at Namibe. The plant at Namibe belongs to ENE and has 2x5.7 MW
units which were installed in 1980. One unit is operating and the other one is currently out of service
with a faulty supercharger. The rehabilitation of this plant has been included in the rehabil itation package
of CCCE as mentioned above.



ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 8
HYDRO PLANTS CURRENT SITUATION
AND ACTIONS IN PROGRESS
Camkamba
1.           Cambambe is a run-of-river hydroelectric station, situated 180 kn east from Luanda, with
a daily regulating capability. It is the first hydroelectric development of the middle Kwanza river. The
dam is a double curvature arch dam 300 m long. The dam was originally built 19.5 m below its initial
design height, thus reducing the rated capacity of each geiierating unit by 20 MW. In the original design,
the power output of each unit was expected to be 65 MW. However, if required by demand growth, the
height of the dam could be increased to its final design height of 132 m, thus fully utilizing the capability
of each unit. In the original design, the construction of a second power house at Cambambe was also
foreseen. The underground power house is equipped with vertical axis Francis turbines each rated at 45
MW, operating at a maximum head of 86 m and a turbining flow of 65 cumsec for each turbine, with
generator from ASEA/SEPSA (Portugal). The construction of the power house began in 1958. The
dam's concrete shows signs of deterioration, the power house needs a general overhaul and the dam's
monitoring systenm needs to be replaced.
2.           Units 1 and 2 were commissioned in 1962 and 1963, and Units 3 and 4 were
commissioned 10 years later. Unit 1 underwent general overhaul and was recommissioned in 1986.
However, at that time, the repair of its excitation and cooling systems was not included in the general
overhaul. Unit 2 went for a general overhaul in 1988, according to a 1987 rehabilitation contract between
SONEFE and ABB Service and supposed to be on line by late 1991. The repair of Units I and 2 will
take about 5 year each compared to a scheduled repair time of 10 months for each unit. This delay is due
to the weak capacity of ABB Service and to the lack of trained personnel at SONEFE.
3.           Charactelization of the Current Situation.    The principal weak points at Cambambe
requiring urgent attention are: (a) dam monitoring system, (b) deterioration of the dam concrete
downstream face and (c) power house rehabilitation and remodelling.
(a)    Dam monitoring system:    A suitable monitoring system had been installed at
Cambambe since its commissioning. An analysis of the results collected after the first
filling of the reservoir shows a reasonable behavior of the dam and its foundation.
However, an inspection made by EDP-EP in 1983/1984 showed that the monitoring
equipment had deteriorated and lack of maintenance; it was completely overhauled at the
time. It has received no maintenance since 1984.
(b)    Deterioration of the dam's concrete downstream fce: Thedeteriorationoccursbecause
of the following circumstances: (i) permanent humidity and drizzle caused by continuous
discharges which penetrate by capillary action in the concrete of the dam, (ii) existence



ANNEX 2 L
Page 2 of 8
on the concrete of microorganisms, mainly of vegetable origin, t. igh concentration
of anhydrous carbonate in the water that penetrates the concrete by vapillary action, (iv)
chemical reaction in the aggregate feldspar leading to a compiete destruction of its
crystalline structure. The deterioration occurs in limited areas of the seven central blocks
of the dam where the spillways are located. In addition, the dam concrete base has
suffered from abnormal wear and tear due to water erosion.
(c)    Power house and substation:  Abnormally low U"lumination levels are present in the
power house and substation making it difficult to operate the plant and carry out proper
maintenance. In addition, the busbar tunnel elevator is out of order and the air-
conditioning system is not working. In relation to the control and supervisory equipment
of the generating units, power house and substation, the following situation is evident:
(i) the cooling system, still using manually washable filters, is in a bad state, taking into
account the quantity of suspended solids carried in the water as well as the lack of
periodic maintenance, (ii) the dewatering and drainage systems are highly corroded and
the corresponding electric controls have many components in need of replacement, (iii)
the 110 V batteries with 58 elements, as well as the 48 V battery need to be replaced,
(iv) the emergency diesel unit (600 kVA) for power station auxniliaries, is worn out and
operable only for one hour at a time, (v) the control mechanism of the substation circuit
breakers is obsolete, no longer being manufactured and spare parts are difficult and
expensive to obtain, (vi) the generating units' control and supervisory functions can only
be undertaken from the power house, (vii) the step-up power transformers need to be
replaced, and (vii) the gate control mechanism need to be overhauled.
4.           Actions in Progress.       The rehabilitation of units 1 and 2 has received special
attention by SONEFE taking into account the importance of Cambambe in meeting the demand of
Luanda.
Biopio
5.           The hydroelectric plant of Biopio, commissioned in 1957, is situated on the Catumbela
river near the village of Biopio. On the left side of the dam is the power house and hydraulic circuit.
The power house is equipped with four generating units, each rated at 3.6 MW, and 300 rpm vertical
shaft Francis turbines designed for a net flow of 14 cumsec per unit. The reservoir created by the dam
has a net capacity of 2.2 million cu.m. The average annual energy production is about 35 GWh. Thus
the plant has very little storage capability and is mainly used for peaking purposes.
6.           General lack of systematic maintenance of the hydromechanical equipment is evident;
there are structural problems with the dam and the generating units are in precarious condidon. Tbere
is work underway to detect the dam's structural anomalies and for substadon expansion that will increase
the reliability of the substadon (financing of USS 1.5 million has been secured). Consultadons are being
hed regarding the rehabilitation of the generating units.



ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 8
7.            Characterization of the Current Situation. The current situation is characterized by
structural and equipment-type irregularities, by lack of maintenance of the hydromechanical equipment,
and problems with the generator units and the substation as follows. The principal structural anomalies
are:
(a)    Excessive gap (about 50 mm) of the joints between the half-pillars of the dam's overflow
flood gates. The 50 mm gap does not yet hinder the normal operation of the gates.
(b)    Displacement of the left pillar of the bottom discharge block from the adjoining
abutment. Such displacement consists of longitudinal and rotational motions and it
prevents the bottom discharge stop-log from operating; it also causes malfunctions in the
operation of the two gates.
(c)    Relative displacement between the surge chamber and the penstocks' gate control
building.
(d)    Vertical misalignment of the generating units.
S.           The total lack of systematic maintenance of the hydromechanical equipment has caused
general corrosion and breakdown of all electrical and oil-hydraulic controls. All generating units have
problems with the turbines, due to (i) significant water leaks through the guide-vanes, (ii) oil leaks at the
bearings, (iii) cavitation and wear at the unner blades, guide-vane valves and other hydraulic circuit
components which only an inspection can determine, and (iv) corrosion signs at several points of the
mechanical installation. The extensive wear and tear on the equipment is due, in part, to the quantity of
solid matter carried by the Catumbela river. One generating unit is at present out of service and partially
dismantled as a consequence of short-circuits that occurred in the stator, shortly after being repaired and
placed in operation in early 1988 and fortunately still within the warranty period (contract amount FF 54
million; contractor: Alsthom Atlantique). The likely causes for this mishap were lack of competent
technical supervision and inappropriate specifications for the contract iepair work. The remaining 3
units, although in operation, are in a precarious condition with extensive wear of mechanical equipment.
Similarly with the unit auxiliaries. Equipment at the substation is outdated, even though the outward
appearance is acceptable. Difficulty in obtaining spare parts greatly diminishes the reliability of the
substation. In addition, the 6/60 kV and 60/150 kV transformers must be overhauled. The dam
observation devices for controlling structural movement are: (1) machanism for measuring the gap in the
joint or seam between the half-pillars, (ii) mechanism for measuring the relative movement between the
bottom discharge left pillar and the adjoining abutment, and (iii) mechanism for measuring the gap at the
joint between the structures of the gate control building and the surge chamber.
9.           Action in Progres. The following actions are in progress: (a) detection of structural
anomalies and analysis of their causes and expected evolution, (b) substation expansion and (c)
consultation with ABB Service regarding the rehabilitation of the generatng units. ITe following actions
undenway to detect the causes of structural anomalies: (i) analysis of the crack in the joints of the



ANNEXC u
Page 4 of 8
dam half-pilars (f" study of the displacement of the bottom discharge left pillar which is progressing at
an average rate of 0.5 mm/year, (iii) analysis of the relative displacement of the surge tank and the gate
control building and (iv) analysis of the vertical misalignment of the generating units whose cause is
presently unknown. As regards substation expansion, in February 1990 a contract was signed between
ENE and EFACEC (Portugal) for the supply of a new 60/150 kV transformer and panel, the refurbishing
of the panel of the existing transformer and 60 kV supply terminals for the auxiliary services. Financing
in the amount of US $ 1.5 million has been secured from a Portuguese Bank (Banco Portugues do
Atlantico). The purchase of a second transformer will increase the reliability of the station and is amply
justified since as it is, any outage of the single transformer will put the station out of service.
L&mM
10.          Lomaum is a run-of-river plant situated on the Catumbela river, about 120 km from the
city of Lobito upstream of Biopio. It was commissioned in 1962. The power house is located on the left
side of the river. In the first stage, which was concluded in 1962, two 10 MW units were installed and
equipped with vertical shaft 750 rpm Francis turbines with a head of 188 m and a design net flow of 2x7
cumsec; in the second stage, concluded in 1971, a 15 MW unit was installed, also equipped with a
vertical shaft 600 rpm Francis turbine for a rated flow of 10.5 cumsec. The current installed capacity
at the station is 35 MW. The plant was severely damaged by sabotage in 1983 and 1984. Financing of
USS 57 million is available for the rehabilitation and erection of two new 15 MW units and technical
asistance. The plant has not been included in the rehabilitation program because the Portuguese
Government is assisting with rehabilitation and expansion.
11.          After rehabilitation and the installation of Units 4 and 5, total installed capacity in
Lomaum will reach 65 MW. However, the lack of regulatory capabilities will keep the fim capacity at
about 15 MW and average capacity at about 30 MW. The full use of the capacity would require the
building of another dam, Cacombo, upstream of Lomaum. Without Cacombo, Lomaum will be over-
equipped 1/ and it is thus doubtfil whether the installation of additional capacity at this stage is
economic. In addition, the present scheme of penstocks does not allow the operation of three 15 MW
units at full output, due to limitation in the water flow (penstock - 21 cumsec; 3 units - 31.5 cumsec).
If the Cacombo dam is built, its regulating action would increase the guaranteed output (firm capacity)
at Lomaum to 50 MW and at Blopio to 10.8 MW, I.e. a total of 60.8 MW. Moreover, Cacombo can
be equipped with 3x12 MW units. According to the development plan of January 1989 (fIemag), the
cost of Cacombo is esimated to be US $ 154 million (in 1990 $) and, if equipped with a power station
(3xI2 MW units), it is estimated as $ US $ 186 million (in 1990 $). Thus, the cost per kW corresponding
to the increase in output is estimated to be US $ 2,320/kW, an acceptable cost. In addition, there will
be energy benefts due to the regulating capability downstream at Lomaum. The supply from Cacombo
will also increase the reliability of the Central System.
1     In aooordnewkh 30-yourhist.l flows Rocorded at the Ihixo Cuumbek hydromct station, thO rvr's miinmum
od averg  fow aw 10 and 20 ounueo respeivey; thus, dte guanteed output of Lomaum b 15 MW and the aovea output
30 MW.



ANNEX 2.4
Page 5 of 8
12.          Charaterization of the Current Situation.    The plant was severely damaged by
sabotage in January 1983 and again in July 1984. The penstocks were partially destroyed; the main
transformer and the control mechanism of the bottom discbarge gates suffered serious damage. At the
power house, all three units were seriously damaged. The power station building and equipment at large
were also affected by the flood and mud carried along the embankment caused by the rush of water which
followed the bursting of the penstocks. There is, moreover, no monitoring system set up for either the
weir bridge or the lateral dike.
13.          ActionsinE  gcsm. A program of rehabilitadon of the equipment, increasing installed
capacity, an the corresponding technical assistance has been established by ENE, as follows:
(a)    Rehabilitation and reinstallation of the steel-lined penstocks and the rehabilitation of the
bottom discharge hydromechanical equipment. Contract amount: US $ 12.5 million.
Contractors: Sorefame and Teixeira Duarte with supervision by Electricidade de
Portugal/EDP. SOREFAME will carry out the work of rehabilitation and reinstallation
of the steel-lined penstocks and rehabilitation of the hydromechanical equipment of the
bottom discharges. TEIXEIRA DUARTE is to perform infrastructure work at Lomaum
and Lobito related to site road access, earthwork and the concrete base for pipe support.
EDP will oversee contract management and provide technical supervision and it will also
carry out training and technical preparation of 14 Angolan workers (electricians, turbine
technicians and manpower for civil works). Infrastructure work is already undetway at
Lobito. At Lomaum, infrastructure work has been delayed until security at the plant can
be guaranteed. Portugal will finance 90 % of the US $ 12.5 million contract with a 10
year payback period at OECD consensus interest rates. The Angolan Government will
support 15 % of the total investment for meeting credit insurance costs, financial
guarantees and bank commissions.
(b)    Rehabilitadon of units 1, 2, and 3 and erection of two new 15 MW units: units 4 and
S. These units have been stored for a long time in Lobito. Contract amount: US S 41
million plus DM 5.3 million for the turbine. Contractors: SEPSA, ACTA and
SOFOMIL with global supervision by Electricidade de Portugal/EDP-ED.
(c)    Supply of equipment for the execution of the civil works. Contract amount: US S 9
million. Contractor: SPARE.
(d)    Technical assistance for the rehabilitation program underway, particularly for project
management and site supervision (EDP's RAHL tecm).
Mab
14.          Matala is the only hydroelectric fcility in the Southern System and it is esW   to
nsure the reliabilty of supply to Lubango and Namibe. Matala b located on the Cunene river, aw dt



ANNEX2.4
Page 6 of 8
village of Matala, 180 km east of the city of Lubango. It entered into service in 1959. The dam is
located in a rather open valley and the power station Is located on the right bank of the river. The dam
has 35 discharge openings, 29 provided with automatic gates and the remaining 6, placed on the left
bank, operated only when the water on the reservoir reaches levels above full storage. The dam has
structural safety problems and the 29 gates are not operational. The power station is equipped with two
13.6 MW generating units and a third unit of the same capacity is being erected. Kaplan turbines,
designed for a rated flow of 72.5 cumsec and rotating at 214.3 rpm, operate with an average head of
20.3 m and produce 13.6 MW at 10 kW. The generating units and auxiliaries are in precarious condition
due to lack of maintenance. The substation has a 10/150 kV transformer for each unit.  Two lines go
out of the station: one westward to Lubango, and the other, presently out of service, to the Cassinga
mines. Matala has been practically the single supply point of the entire Southern System.
15.          Financing is available from Belgium (US$ 28 million) for the erection of a third 13.6 MW
unit at the site, for general overhaul of Units I and 2, including station auxiliaries as we-I as technical
assistance for project management and manpower training.
16.          Characterization of the Current Situation.  Four main issues should be currently
addressed: (i) structural safety of the dam, (ii) structural behavior of the dam, (iii) hydromechanical
equipment and (iv) generating units and general installations at the power house. The safety of the dam
is impaired by the lack of a monitoring system. The dam is cracked in some places and there are
noticeable gaps in the joints between the half-walls that support the roadway. Anchors have been placed
in some of the gaps to slow-down the rate at which the gaps are opening. The 29 gates are not
operational because they are embedded between the dam's concrete pillars due to the deformation of the
half-walls of the dam. In addition, the control device of the first 3 gates of the bottom outlet is jammed
as a result of repeated attempts to close them; the fourth gate is broken. There is considerable water
leakage through all the gaps in the dam's wall. The generating units, auxiliaries and the 150 kV
equipment at the substation are in precarious condition due to lack of maintenance.
17.          Actions in Progress. At present, ENE is developing a rehabilitation and expansion
program of the power station. Tbis program is amply justified since Matala is the only hydroelectric
power plant in the Southern System. Moreover, with the regulating capability of the Gove dam, it
becomes indispensable to guarantee the operation of all the units at Matala in order to increase security
of supply. The third unit would serve as spinning reserve during normal operation of the plant and under
contingency conditions. The foiowing work is underway or being decided:
(a)    Supply and erection of a third generating unit, with characteristics similar to the oun
already installed (13.6 MW), of the control board and respective electrical installaion.
Contract amount: FB 260 million. Contractor: ACEC (Ateliers de Constructam
Electrique de Charleroi);



Page 7 of 8
(b)    Overhaul of the excitation system of units 1 and 2 and for repair and renewal of the
electrical equipment of the corresponding control and instrumentation systems. Coutract
amount: FB 134 million. Contractor ACEC; and
(c)    General overhaul of units I and 2 and station auxiliaries: Contract amount: FB 357
million. Contractor: ACEC. Civil works: Contract amount: US $ 1.3 million.
Contractor: Teixeira Duarte. Contract management and civil works supervision including
technical assistance and associated manpower training: Contract amount: US$ 870,000.
Contractor: EDP
Gove Dam
18.          The Gove dam is located on the Cunene river, about 200 km upstream from Matala. Civil
work was completed in 1975 comprising the dam, hydraulic circuit, spillway and bottom outlet. The dam
is of the eath-fill type; the maximum height over the foundation is 58 m; the crest of ;te dam is 1111
m long. The hydraulic circuit allows for control of the water flow and it was designed to feed the
turbines of a future power house. The reservoir created by the dam has a net volume of 2500 million
cu.m; thbis large storage capacity allows for the regulation of the Cunene river and of Matala. Without
Gove, the natural flow of Matala would not permit significant generation during 4-5 months of the year.
Gove has a guaranteed flow of 72.5 cumsec which provides benefits to all downstream power or
agricultural developments. Hydraulic conditions and characteristics of the reservoir would probably
justify a plant with 45 MW installed capacity.
19.          Tbe dam has been sabotaged twice and its structural condition is precarious. There is
much internal erosion and the bottom outlet gates are not operational. Financing in the amount of USS
6 million was available to repair the damage from the first sabotage. While this work was underway a
second sabotage occurred in February 1990 which caused considerable damage. The lack of security
conditions in the area had, until recendy, prevented a careful and detailed evaluation of all the
rehabilitation worsm required. The rehabilitation works at the Gove have been established from reports
on the damage; the peace agreement will certainly enable them to be more properly evaluated and carried
out.
20.           hud izaion of L  eCugML    Siuation.    Since 1985 the Cove dam has been
showing obvious signs of deterioration: internal erosion of the filling material of the embankament and
considerablo percolation. The consequence of this is that the inspection gallery, situated inside the water-
protection wall, Is flooded up to level (1550.0), and large deposiii of fine material are evident in the non-
flooded area. This situation arose from an inadequate operation of the filter system in the gallery and/or
from inadequate opeation of concrete joints on the water-protection wall ZI. The dam was sabotaged
21    11T r6ounandd s olution oonsuls of applying waw proofing salant to the watw-potcion wail; this work should
be oasnid out from td inide of the glly.



ANNEX 2.4
Page 8 of 8
In 1987 with considerable damage. Contracts in the amount of about US $ 6 million I/ have been
siped by the Minstry of Public Works to repair this damage. On February 1990 the dam was sabotaged
again. Heavy damage was incurred on the left bank of the dam, near the entrance to the inspection
gallery. Huja -ssures were created in the area about the crest of the dam which alarmed the rural
population living within 40 Ikm of the dam. An inspection made on March 8, 1990, after the mission
visit, detected a crater in the crest of the dam with a diameter of 5.5 m and 6 m deep. The inspection
also showed fissures in the dam and damage to the rock foundation itself.
21.           Actions in Progess.  In order to avoid the collapse of the dam, which would create a
20 m high wave along the river (the large storage level of the reservoir, about 2,000 million cu.m, would
give rise to a flow uf 20,000 to 40,000 cumsec), and would be catastrophic to riverside villages as well
as to Mala and Ruacana, the reservoir has been emptied. The crater on the crest has been filled with
sand and rockfdll removed from the upstream face of the dam. As an emergency solution, the downstream
face of the dam has been reinforced with sand-filled bags. However, completion of this last emergency
sta,e was hindered by a lack of fuel at the site to supply energy.
Coiactm Geaeoboa-UE on behoa of tbo Minity of PubLic worh, Teieima Duare heading a consortium of:
_*m  hr 1  _uwyhubid   of         equip ment, Hidroenica Portuguesa for deil design of the poir projec. and
ftrwgal Natlou Cvi Bagineerig Labortoy, for desig and implemention of the dam's monitoring sy;aem. Teuam
Duii   b Xs mspos  fr projc mongement ad excution.



ANNEX 2.S
Page 1 of 4
DISTRIBU ION SYSTEMd IN LUANDA PROVINCE
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE PESENT SITUATION AND ACTON  IN PROGRESS
emLt Situation
1.           The province of Luanda extends for over 380 sq. km, 80 sq. km of which are urban and
the rest suburban, as shown in Fig 1. Electricity in Luanda Province is distributed by both EDEL and
SONEFE. SONEFE directly feeds industrial HV and MV consumers, generally located in the suburban
areas, while EDEL is in charge of electricity distribution and public lighting in the urban center. The
electricity is purchased at 60 kV from SONEFE. The main distribution voltage is 15 kV and some
industrial subscribers purchase electricity at this level. An old 6.6 kV distribution network in the center
of the city is supplied from the 15 kV network. Household consumers and small industries are supplied
from EDEL at 380/220 V. EDEL is responsible for the planning and implementation of required
rehabilitation and extension. Presently, the electrical system in Luanda province relies on five voltage
levels, namely:
(a)    220 kV level - for primary supply of the Luanda and Viana substations, which practically
feed the entire province;
0')  .60 kV level - for supply of the distribution system through six substations: Luanda,
Viana, Cuca, Maianga, Quifangondo and Belas;
(c)    30 kY level - for supply of industrial consumers of SONEFE in the suburban area;
(d)    15 kV leve - for supply of secondary substations in the suburban area, for feeders
linking the 18 switching substations of the urban center, as well as for secondary MV/LV
transformer substations; and
(e)    6. kV level - for the secondary network in the old historical center of Luanda.
2.           The electricity distributed throughout the province of Luanda is almost entirely generated
by Cambatube and transmitted by two 220 kV lines which feed the Luanda substation, one directly and
the other pasing through the Viana substation. The unrestricted peak demand of the entire province in
1990 was esimated at 132 MW. The actual peak demand in June 1991 was about 90 MW. The Luanda
substation thus has ample capacity to cover the peak load in Luanda, with a reserve capacity margin of
as much as 100 MVA. All the consumers in the urban center are supplied by EDEL from the Cuca and
Malanga substations by the underground 15 kV network. Generally these cables are in good shape since
they hmve not been overloaded. In the event of an outage in the Maianga substation, the Cuca substation
wil cover the load by overloading its transformers. However, the load carrying capability of its outgoing



ANNEX1S
Page 2 of 4
feeders is not sufficient to carry the load. A similar situation exists when the Cuca substation is on
outage. A new substadon, the Mutamba substation, is required to increase reliability of service. 'The
LV network is in poor condidon. Very few fuse boxes have lockable or locked doors, many fuse boxes
are in poor condidon or have improperly sized fuses, many poles are broken, cable ditches are lefi open
waiting for material necessary for repairs and much of the repair work undertaken is of provisional
nature. The situation not only is a source of outages but is also unsafe.
Actions in Progress or Under Discussion.
3.           The power distribution system in Luanda is seriously degraded and inadequate to cope
with the needs of a greatly expanded population. The following projects, including rehabilitation and
extensions, have been proposed or are being considered:
(a)    The 6.6 kV network has been phased out as part of a conversion program to 15 kV
carried out by the Spanish engineering firm Montreal;
(b)   Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network in Luanda including all urgent
works in the 60 kV network, and expansion of the CUCA substation, construction of the
CUCA-MUTAMBA line and construction of the MUTAMBA substation. Tbe
rehabilitation works proposed also include expansion of the MV and LV networb which
center about Maianga in the 'bairros' of Samba and Calemba. The works are to be
carried out through a soft loan from the Italian Government in the amount of USS 20
million. A contract may have already been signed with SICOM from Italy. There were
some delays caused by the creditworthiness of Angola;
(c)    Rehabilitation of the underground LV (48 km of underground and 105 km of overhead)
and the street lighting networks in some of the main arteries and low income areas of the
city. Tbe works are being carried out through Swedish financing (project ASDI) of USS
4 million;
(d)   Rehabilitation and extension of the street lighting network of some of the main streets
which are not included in the project ASDI in (c) above. The works are to be carried
with Spanish financing (85 % FAD loan) in the amount of US$ 4 million;
(e)    Repair of the MV net.<ork in the industrial zone and a few LV sections. Financing in
the amount of USS 16 million has been obtained from the French Caisse Centrale de
Cooperaion Economique (CCCE);
(     Rehabilitation of the MV and LV network around the switching stations PS 01, 14, 10
ad O2. Ihe works are to be carried out through Spanish fiancing (85 % loan to FAD)
in the amount of USS 23.



ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 4
TABLE : PRINCIPAL FACILITIES OF THE ELECTIC SYSTEM IN LUANDA (1990)
FAC1llr                              OPERATOR                       DLSCRWION
*       220 kV lines on el pylons                         SONMEFE                          350 km
*       60 kV KV las on vais types of poles               SONEFE                           35 km
*       60 kV KV undegoun Une                        SONEFE AND EDEL                        2 km
*       Luanda substation                                 SONEFE            4x60 MVA 220/60/15 kV tmwfrms
*       Viswssubswion                                     SONEFE            220/60 kV and 60130 kV, Ix60 MVA
*       Cue& subation                                      EDEL             4x20 MVA 60/1S kV tmafovms
*       M     dMangp  bsdion                              SONEFE            3x20 MVA 60/15 kV tmnsfcsms
*       Quihngondo substation                             SONEFE            Ix7.5 MVA 60/30 kV tundbfoat
*       Bia subsation                                     SONEFE            2xl MVA 60/1S kV unsfoms
*       Refinsy substaion supplied by SONEB.                                Ix7.S MVA 60/15 kV btrome*
*       SSteswoeb sbsation upplied by SONEFE                                IxS MVA 60/15 kV trnsfofar 
*       CCia,gol sabdation supplied by SONEFE                              IxiS MVA 60/1S kV trnsforme 0
ftgg[ MV newerk
* 30 kV ovedwAd                                   0 SONEFE                         20 km
*        15 kV oaveed lins                                SONEFE                           200 km
i *      IS kV oved  aead ns                                EDEL                            25 km
3 .      IS kV undegund ables                             SONEFE                           2.5 km
| *      15 kV undegound cables                            EDEL                            22S km
*      trasforming substations                            EDEL                              53S
MV per upply subsations                          SONEFE                             373
-    ~  MV power mpply sbsao                               EDEL                              31
*       switching  bstatons                                EDEL                              18
LV ntwrk said nublic llehda_
*       Ovehead and undewnd lines                                                          850 km
LV consmer connection                                                             67,000
_  e                                         .aabtuo  s o                          4000w                 I
Mm lle   bdaion i owned by th co_or wbo hnles its opqtion od  iafw.



-D  - --s   --w-  - (   -fMUTAM
BELAS   >           ',    ______
MAIANGA   -
i.  ~~~~~% 
a                I~~~~~~% 
j          t                I   " _s ts           >  - x   ;_   _    7-   C   O    , 
I---..         CAZ  jNG
~~ *  *      -'a                 a!                          --
*                                                             -_ I  a,/                    UG
LUANDA PROVINCE                                          , 
E   URBAN AREA                              VI               t
SUBUBAN AMEA
I, 
i. ~



ANNEX 2.6
a'e Tl01o4
DISTRIBUTION SY&STEMS OF LOBrTrBENGUELA
Present Situlado
1.          The distribution of electicity in the province of Lobito-Benguela is the responsibility of
CELB and coordinated by ENE. The Lobito-Benguela area is located on the Atlantic coast, in the central
region of Angola, approximately 500 km south of Luanda. The distribution system of Lobito-Benguela
is supplied through 150 kV and 60 kV lines by the 22 MW gas turbine and 18 MVA hydro plant at
Blopio as well as by a 4x5 MW carriage-mounted diesel plant. Present available capacity from these
stations is limited to 15.8 MW. The maximum unrestricted demand in 1990 was estimated to be 24 MVA
(19.2 MW at 0.8 power factor). Table 1 oudines the main network faccilties in Lobito-Benguela.
Prosently, the electric system in the province of Lobito-Benguela relies on four voltage levels:
(a)   150 kV Ievel - for the supply of the Quileva substation, feeding part of the province.
(b)   60 kV level - for the supply of the remaining distribution network through the Catumbela
substation,
(c)   30 kV level - for the supply of the secondary 30/0.380 kV substations of the Catumbela
area, of the Lobito suburbs and of the Baia Farta area, as well as for the supply of the
30/20 kV substations of Lobito and Benguela,
(d)      kV level - for the supply of the remaining secondary 20/0.380 kV substations of the
province.
2.           The 150 kV line linking Biopio-Quileva and the 60 kV lines linking the Biopio and the
Catumbela substations, although old, are generally in good condition. The secondary MV network
operaton is quite clumsy. Generally, the performance of the overhead MV network, both at 20 kV and
30 kV, Is good. Conversely, the underground network is in very poor condition, with frequent outages.
The cause of these disruptions is the result of corrosion in the lead of the armored MV cables caused by
sltwater in the subsoil.
3.           Ihe secondary MV/LV transforming substations are generally in good condidon. The
entire LV network is extremely obsolete and subject to frequent and prolonged Iterruptions, due to both
agi  and high overloads. Lead corrosion was evident on both the MV and LV underground netwotk.
Geerally, there is no coordination between the protection relays settings aud the load carrying capability
of the LV cables, which worsens system operations. The supports of the public lighting network,
recoey repainted, show corrosion at their base. The underground network which fheds the lighdng
fixtures is aulted in many portions and is presently replaced by provisional overhead lines. Tbe ovll



ANNEX 2.6
Page 2 of 4
condition of the LV network and the public lighting system is such that it discouraged maintenance action
by CELB.
Actions in Progres or under Consideration.
4.            ENE is presently undertaking some retrofits and extensions to the distribudon network
in the province. The supervision of these works is performed by ELECNOR S.A., a Spanish enterprise,
almost entirely funded (USS 18 million) by the Spanish FAD. The proposed work has several
shortcomings, particularly since it involves the extension of the 30 kV level, rather than its elimination.
Tbe proposed 30 kV level is more expensive and more demanding in terms of procurement of materials.
The Spanish project includes the construction of new 30 kV systems, which might be easily built at 20
kV. Moreover, it also involves the laying of 20 kV underground cables, continuing the mix of voltage
levels. In fact the rehabilitation and upgrading program outlined in Chapter m is designed to freeze and
eventually eliminate the 30 kV level.
TABLE 1: Main network facilities in .obito-Benguela
DESCRIION OF FACILIrY
priryv 150 kV and 60 kV network
e      I8 km of l50 kV HV lines on teel tows
*      60 kV HV lines on steel towr
*      Quileva substation, 2x30 MVA 150/30 kV tamsformem
*      Catumbela substation, 5x4.S MVA 60130 V tuforme
*      Lobito substation, 2x7.S MVA 30/20 kV tansformer
*      Benguela substation, 2x7.S MVA 30/20 kV trnsfomer
Secondear MV ndtwo*c
*      30 kV overhead lines
*      20 kV underground and ovebhead linH
*      secondary MV/LV substations
LV newrk
*      about 600 km of LV overhead and underground line
Publc lihting aysut1
* zbout 1,100 Hti poa



ANNB-2-6
Page 3 of 4
S.           Work Underway by ELECNOR S.A. The project was planned by ENE under the
supervision of the Spanish firm ELECNOR S.A. The project consists of the following:
(a)   construction of a new substation at Cavaco, 60/30 kV, 2x15 MVA;
(b)   construction of a 150 kV line between the Biopio and Quileva substations, at a later
stage;
(c)   construction of two 60 kV lines for the supply of the new Cavaco substation from the
existing Catumbela substation, of which one is to be built at a later stage;
(d)   construction of a second 60 kV circuit between the Catumbela and the Biopio substations,
to be installed on the existing poles;
(e)   construction of a 30 kV line between the Catumbela and Benguela substation;
(f)   construction of a 30 kV double circuit line, on common poles, connecting the new
Cavaco substation with the Catumbela and Benguela substations;
(g)   various electrical work for retrofitting the Benguela substation;
O)   replacement of five 30/20 kV, 4.5 MVA transformers with two 60/30 kV, 7.5 MVA
ansformers;
(i)   construction of 55 km of 20 kV underground lines in the towns of Benguela, Lobito and
Catumbela; and
I1)    costruction of 70 km of 30 kV overhead lines for supplying new secondary transformer
substations in the Cavaco valley.
6.           Conmments on the above work:
(a)   ITe works indicated in items (a-h) are mainly aimed at makin the current 150/60/30 kV
primary network more efficient and reliable, since all substations could be closed in a
ring configuration. The above works will also serve the purpose of meeting the expeoed
load increase during the next decade.
(b)   The proposed solution, however, which is to be implemented in the near future, ha some
shortcomings which could be removed for a more correct and easier operation of the
network as a whole.



ANNEX 2.6
Page 4 of 4
(c)   In particular, the project involves the extension of the 30 kV level, rather than foreseeing
Its elimination. This voltage level is ill-suited, taking into account that the current MV
distribution network is based on the following levels:
*     Lobito       20 kV
*     Benguela     20 kV
*     Catumbela    30 kV
*     Quileva      30 kV
(d)   The 30 kV level should be frozen and eventually eliminated, since it is more expensive
and more demanding in terms of procurement of materials.
(e)    The project also envisages a network layout with the construction of double circuit lines.
This system may cause major difficulties in case of repair work on one of the circuits,
because, for safety reasons, both circuits should be de-energized when repair is being
done.



ANGOLA - POWER SECTOR REHABILIATION PROJECr
Organization Chart of the State Secretariat for Energy and Water
I          5S.c3uofSZmt          l
rl~ ~~~ijc Coinlz.lo.it              I
ofSoo   dis   S
T.dudcaiInormian Unit
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dum  offop                              ftr IMLst
[ 1                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C_biM ofW L_of& CabiW of Hauiv



Angola
Power Sector Rehabititation
Sum.ry Accounts Cost Sumuary
USS                            USS                         X Total
------------------------------   ---------------------------  X Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign    Total       Local Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
1. INESTNENT COSTS
A. Works for Northern System
1. Cambambe Substation Rehab    150.0    900.0   1050.0       150.0   900.0  1050.0          85.7      1.9
2. Ca ba be Luanda Lines       1720.0  14380.0  16100.0      1720.0  14380.0  16100.0        89.3     29.8
3. Luanda Substatlons          600.0   1600.0   2200.0        600.0  1600.0  2200.0          72.7      4.1
Sub-Total                        2470.0  16880.0  19350.0       2470.0  16880.0  19350.0        87.2     35.9
B. Works for Centrat Svstei
1. Transmiosion Lines Rehab    800.0  10200.0  11000.0        800.0  10200.0  11000.0        92.7     20.4
2. Suhstations Rehab           360.0   1440.0   1800.0        360.0  1440.0  1800.0          80.0      3.3
3. Huabo Distributioki         500.0    500.0   1000.0        500.0   500.0  1000.0          50.0      1.9
Sub-Totat                        1660.0  12140.0  13800.0       1660.0  12140.0  13800.0        88.0     25.6
C. Electrical Equipment
1. suhstation Equipment Mort     0.0   4285.0   4285.0          0.0  4285.0  4285.0         100.0      7.9
2. Substation Equipment Cent     0.0   2000.0   2000.0          0.0  2000.0  2000.0         100.0      3.7
3. Distribution Equipment        0.0   1400.0   1400.0          0.0  1400.0  1400.0         100.0      2.6
4. Prepay ent kWh Meters         0.0    750.0    750.0          0.0   750.0   750.0         100.0      1.4
Sub-Total                           0.0   8435.0   8435.0          0.0  8435.0  8435.0         100.0     15.6
D. General Plant
1. Tools I baint Equip North     0.0    150.0    150.0          0.0   150.0   150.0         100.0      0.3
2. Toots & Naint Equip Centr     0.0    150.0    150.0          0.0   150.0   150.0         100.0      0.3
3. Work Vehicles North Syst      0.0      40.0      40.0        0.0    40.0    40.0         100.0      0.1
4. Work Vehictes Central Sys     0.0    200.0    200.0          0.0   200.0   200.0         100.0      0.4
5. Werk Vehicles SEER            0.0      60.0     60.0         0.0    60.0    60.0         100.0      0.1
6. Data Proc Equipment North     0.0      80.0      80.0        0.0    80.0    80.0         100.0      0.1
7. Data Proc Equipment Centr     0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0     0.0          0.0      0.0
8. Data Proc Equipment SEEA      0.0      30.0      30.0        0.0    30.0    30.0         100.0      0.1
9. Office Supplies               0.0    105.0    105.0          0.0   105.0   105.0         100.0      0.2
Sub-Totat                           0.0    815.0    815.0          0.0   815.0   815.0         100.0      1.5
E. Preparation Korth System
1. Technicat Audits              0.0    180.0    180.0          0.0   180.0   180.0         100.0      0.3
2. Preparation Bidding DoCom     0.0    550.0    550.0          0.0   550.0   550.0         10W.0      1.0
Surt-Total                          0.0    730.0    730.0          0.0   730.0   730.0         100.0      1.4
F. Preparation Centr System
1. Technical Audits              0.0    230.0    230.0          0.0   230.0   230.0         100.0      0.4
2. Preparation Bidding Dotom     0.0    220.0    220.0          0.0   220.0   220.0         100.0      0.4                                            oQ
3. Hunabo Distrib Study          0.0    450.0    450.0          0.0   450.0   450.0         100.0      0.8                
Sub-Total                           0.0    900.0    90u.0          0.0   900.0   905.0         100.0      1.7                                               4S
G. Proj Nwst Ssp North Syst
1. Camba be Redab NSst L Sup     0.0    180.0    180.0          0.0   180.0   180.0         100.0      0.3
2. Lines Rehab Nht & Supmn       0.0   1000.0   1000.0          0.0  1000.0  1000.0         100.0      1.9                                            O
3. Luen Subs Rehab F  & Sup      0.0    200.0    200.0          0.0   200.0   200.0         100.0      0.4
SutbTotat                           0.0   1380.0   1380.0          0.0  1380.0  1380.0         100.0      2.6
N. Proj Nget SUpw Centr Syst



1. Lins Rehb Proj Not & Supv       0.0    800.0      800.0         0.0   800.0   800.0          100.0       1.5
2. Subst Rehb Proj Mm & Sup        0.0    300.0    300.0           0.0   300.0   300.0          100.0       0.6
3. Distrib Rehab Nnt & Supv        0.0    250.0    250.0           0.0   250.0   250.0          100.0       0.5
...................................................  --------------- ----------
Sub-Total                             0.0    1350.0    1350.0         0.0   1350.0   1350.0        100.0       2.5
1. Management Assistance
1. Uonitoring Prepay Program      24.0      96.0    120.0         24.0    96.0   120.0           80.0       0.2
2. Accounting Systems              0.0    425.0    425.0           0.0   425.0   425.0          100.0       0.8
3. Stock Management                0.0    425.0    425.0           0.0   425.0   425.0          100.0       0.8
4. Comercial Operations            0.0    1000.0   1000.0          0.0  1000.0   1000.0         100.0       1.9
5. Project Coordination SEEA       0.0   2890.0   2890.0           0.0  2890.0  2890.0          100.0       5.4
Sub-Total                            24.0   4836.0   4860.0          24.0  4836.0  4860.0           99.5       9.0
J. Operational Assistance
1. T.A. for Maintenance            0.0   2000.0   2000.0           0.0  2000.0  2000.0          100.0       3.7
K. Sector Restruct & Studies          0.0    325.0    325.0           0.0   325.0   325.0          100.0       0.6
Total BASELINE COSTS               4154.0  49791.0  53945.0        4154.0  49791.0 53945.0          92.3    100.0
Physical contingencies           501.4   5698.1    6199.5        501.4  5698.1  6199.5           91.9      11.5
Price Contingencies              768.6   5607.8   6376.4         768.6  5607.8  6376.4           87.9      11.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS               5424.0  61096.9  66520.9        5424.0 61096.9 66520.9           91.8    123.3
....,,,,,..............................   ,.,,,----------------------------------------------------------------------______________
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -  5/5/1992  17:39
I'd
OQ*
4'



Angole
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                               Totals Including Contingencies
USS                                                            ulS$
..................................................................-------------.--.............--------------------------S-......
1992    1993    1994    199f    1996    1997   Total        1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   Totat
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
...................
A. Works for Northern System
1. Ca dme Substation Rehab      0.0   173.9   639.9   320.3   137.2    10.2  1281.6          0.0   173.9   639.9   320.3   137.2    10.2  1281.6
2. Cad aire Luwnda Lines        0.0  3892.1  5060.7  7156.2  4156.4   454.7 20720.0          0.0  3892.1  5060.7  7156.2  4156.4   454.7 20720.0
3. Luanda Substations           0.0   325.0  1070.0  1041.4   257.1    19.1  2712.7          0.0   325.0  1070.0  1041.4   257.1    19.1  2712.7
Sub-Totat                          0.0  4391.0  6770.6  8517.9  4550.7   484.0 24714.3          0.0  4391.0  6770.6  8517.9  4550.7   484.0 24714.3
B. Works for Central System
1. Transmission Lines Rehab     0.0  2541.2  3303.0  4668.9  2710.6   296.4 13520.3          0.0  2541.2  3303.0  4668.9  2710.6   296.4 13520.3
2. Substations Rehab            0.0   417.3   673.4   768.8   329.4    24.5  2213.3          0.0   417.3  6h3.4   768.8   329.4    24.5  2Z13.3
3. Huambo Distribution          0.0   140.2   207.5   395.1   465.8    69.5  1278.1          0.0   140.2   207.5   395.1   465.8    69.5  1278.1
Sub-Total                          0.0  3098.7  4183.9  5832.8  3505.8   390.4  17011.6         0.0  3098.7  4183.9  5832.8  3505.8   390.4 17011.6
C. Electrical Equipment
1. Stustation Equipment Nort    0.0     0.0  5132.6      0.0     0.0     0.0  5132.6         0.0     0.0  5132.6     0.0      0.0     0.0  5132.6
2. Stbstation Equipment Cent    0.0     0.0  1796.7   622.0      0.0     0.0  2418.7         0.0     0.0  1796.7   622.0      0.0     0.0  2418.7
3. Distribution Equipment       0.0     0.0  1676.9      0.0     0.0     0.0  1676.9         0.0     0.0  1676.9      0.0     0.0     0.0  1676.9
4. Prepayment kWh Meters        0.0   432.3   449.2      0.0     0.0     0.0   881.5         0.0   432.3   449.2      0.0     0.0     0.0   881.5
Sub-Totat                          0.0   432.3  9055.5   622.0      0.0     0.0  10109.7        0.0   432.3  9055.5   622.0     0.0      0.0  10109.7
0. General Plant
1. Tools & Paint Equip North    0.0     0.0   179.7      0.0     0.0     0.0   179.7         0.0     0.0   179.7     0.0      0.0     0.0   179.7
2. Tools & Naint Equip Centr    0.0     0.0   179.7      0.0     0.0     0.0   179.7         0.0     0.0   179.7      0.0     0.0     0.0   179.7-
3. work Vehicles North Syst     0.0     0.0    47.9      0.0     0.0     0.0    47.9         0.0     0.0    47.9      0.0     0.0     0.0    47.9
4. Work Vehicles Central Sys    0.0    92.2   143.7      0.0     0.0     0.0   236.0         0.0    92.2   143.7      0.0     0.0     0.0   236.0
5. Work Vehicles SEEA           0.0    69.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    69.2         0.0    69.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    69.2
6. Data Proc Equipment North    0.0    92.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    92.2         0.0    92.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    92.2
7. Data Proc Equipment Centr    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
8. Data Proc Equipment SEEA    33.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    33.5        33.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    33.5
9. Office Syuppies              5.6    23.1    24.0    24.9    25.8    26.8   130.1          5.6    23.1    24.0    24.9    25.8    26.8   130.1
Sub-Total                         39.0   276.7   574.9    24.9    25.8    26.8   968.2         39.0. 276.7   574.9    24.9    25.8    26.8   968.2
E. Preparation North System
1. Technical Audits           200.8     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   200.8       200.8     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   200.8
2. Preparation Bidding Docum    613.5   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   613.5       613.5     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   613.5
Sub-Total                        814.2     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   814.2       814.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   814.2  lb
F. Preparation Centr System                                                                                                                           ° 
1. Technical Audits           256.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   256.5       256.5     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   256.5  w
2. Preparation Bidding Docur    245.4   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   245.4       245.4     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   245.4  o
3. Huaobo Distrib Study       111.5   403.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   515.0       111.5   403.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   515.0  -
Sub-Total                        613.5   403.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0  1017.0       613.5   403.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  1017.0  o



G. Proj Ngmt Supv North Syst
1. Camba*be Rehab Mgmt & Sup      0.0    27.0    43.1    82.8    65.1         4.8   222.8         0.0    27.0    43.1    82.8    65.1         4.8   222.8
2. Lines Rehab Mgmt & Supvn       0.0   230.6   299.5   422.9   245.3    26.8  1225.1             0.0   230.6   299.5   422.9   245.3    26.8  1225.1
3. Luan Subs Rehab Mgm & Sup      0.0    46.1    74.3    84.6    36.2         2.7   243.8         0.0    46.1    74.3    84.6    36.2         2.7   243.8
Sub-Total                            0.0   303.7   416.8   590.4   346.6    34.3  1691.7             0.0   303.7   416.8   590.4   346.6    34.3  1691.7
B. Proj Mgmt Supv Centr Syst
1. Lins Rehb Proj Kgt & Supv      0.0   184.5   239.6   338.3   196.3    21.4   980.1             0.0   184.5   239.6   338.3   196.3    21.4   980.1
2. Subst Rehb Proj Ngm & Sup      0.0    69.2   111.4   126.9    54.2         4.0   365.7         0.0    69.2   111.4   126.9    54.2         4.0   365.7
3. Distrib Rehab HMt & Supv       0.0    34.6    50.9    96.4    113.0    16.8   311.6            0.0    34.6    50.9    96.4   113.0    16.8   311.6
Stib-Total                           0.0   288.2   401.9   561.6   363.5    42.2  1657.4             0.0   288.2   401.9   561.6   363.5    42.2  1657.4
1. Management Assistance
1. Monitoring Prepay Program      0..     0.0    72.4    75.4        0.0      0.0   147.8         0.0      0.0    72.4    75.4       0.0      0.0   147.8
2. Accounting Systems            61.3   219.0   107.8   112.0        0.0      0.0   500.1        61.3   219.0   107.8   112.0        0.0      0.0   500.1
3. Stock Management               0.0   219.0   107.8   112.0    71.0         0.0   509.8         0.0   219.0   107.8   112.0    71.0         0.0   509.8
4. Comcercial Operations          0.0   634.1   539.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  1173.1         0.0   634.1   539.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  1173.1
5. Project Coordination SEEA    223.1   876.2   910.3   945.4   387.4   147.4  3489.7           223.1   876.2   910.3   945.4   387.4   147.4  3489.7
Sub-Total                          284.4  1948.3  1737.4  1244.7   458.4   147.4  5820.6           284.4  1948.3  1737.4  12I 4.7   458.4   147.4  5820.6
J. Operational Assistance
1. T.A. for Maintenance           0.0  1268.1  1078.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  2346.2         0.0  1268.1   1078.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2346.2
K. Sector Restruct & Studies       139.4   230.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   370.0       139.4   230.6       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   370.0
Total PROJECT COSTS               1890.6  i2541.1  24219.1  17394.2  9250.7  1125.2 66520.9       1890.6  12641.1  24219.1  17394.2  9250.7  1125.2 66520.9
Values Scaled by 1000.0  515/1992  17:40
0.
Ph
C



Angola                                                          Annex 4.I
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 1j. Rehabilitation of the Northern System
Cambambe Hydro Power Station
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Unit Cost           Base Costs          Totals Includisg Contirgencies                     USS
92-97 Total      1992-97      1992  93-97  Total           1992   1993-97     Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Consultants Services
Technical Audits              -      -           -       120.0    0.0  120.0         133.8       0.0      133.8      133.8      0.0     0.0   133.8
Prep of Bidding Documents    -       -           -       150.0    0.0  150.0         167.3       0.0      167.3      167.3      0.0     0.0   167.3
Sub-7Otal                                                 270.0  0.0  270.0           301.2       0.0      301- 2     301.2      0.0     0.0   301.2
Total INVESTuEoT COSTS                                           270.0    0.0  270.0         301.2        0.0     301.2       301.2     0.0     0.0   301.2
=2====    = -2= == ......  ....... =.... =...     .........  .......  322..3.  ......2   ....
Total                                                         270.0    0.0  270.0         301.2        0.0     301.2      301.2      0.0     0.0   301.2
=_=sSW= =-B  -: _C5====CC7 S=s=W====  C#=a= ======== :========-X ========= M=*==z===========C==5c==:==s= r=M=S===X_fCC
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:40
.
0



Angola                                          Annex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table U2. Rehabilitation of the Northern System
Cambambe Substation
Detailed Cost Table
Us#
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                              USS
1992   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997  Total         F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Equipnent
220 kV Circuit Breakers      0.0    0.0  1239.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  1239.7    1239.7    0.0    0.0  1239.7
Instrument Transformers      0.0    0.0  239.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  239.6           239.6    0.0    0.0  239.6
Protection Equipment         0.0    0.0  838.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  838.5            838.5    0.0    0.0  838.5
New Panel Meters             0.0    0.0  239.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  239.6            239.6    0.0    0.0  239.6
-------    -------.. -------    -------... -------    -------... -------  .......... .......    .......... ....... ..... ......
Sub-Total                     0.0    0.0 2557.3    0.0    0.0    0.0 2557.3    2557.3    0.0    0.0 2557.3
B. Spare Parts and Materials
Control Cable & Accessor.    0.0    0.0  119.8    0.0    0.0    0.0  119.8            119.8    0.0    0.0  119.8
Spares/ Suabstation Stock    0.0    0.0  239.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  239.6            239.6    0.0    0.0  239.6
...... ....... .......    .......... .......    .......... .......    ....... . .. -----. I-...... -------    -------... ...------.- ..  .  ..... .. .
Sub-Total                     0.0    0.0  359.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  359.3           359.3    0.0    0.0  359.3
C. Works
Overhauling Works            0.0  173.9  280.6  320.3  137.2   10.2  922.2            731.4  190.8    0.0  922.2
0. Consultants Services
Technical Audit             66.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   66.9            66.9    0.0    0.0   66.9
Prepar Bidding Documents    111.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  111.5           111.5    0.0    0.0   111.5
Proj Ngmt and Supervision    0.0   27.0   43.1    82.8   65.1    4.8  222.8           222.8    0.0    0.0  222.8
Sub-Total                   178.5   27.0   43.1    82.8   65.1    4.8  401.3          401.3    0.0    0.0  401.3
....... .......oNT O  . ...... .........4.0   ....... .......2 . . . . ...        4240.2 ....... -......
Total IWESTMENT COSTS              178.5  200.8 3240.4  403.2   202.3   15.0 4240.2    4049.4  190.8    0.0 4240.2
=== .== ==               ===== ======= ======= =======   ======= ======= ======= =======
Total                           178.5  200.8 3240.4  403.2  202.3   15.0 4240.2    4049.4  190.8    0.0 4240.2
-Values scated by 1000.0 5/5/1.°92 18:14
0D 



Angota                                                 Annex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 13. Rehabilitation of the Northern System
Cambseme-Luunda 220 kV Transmission Lines
Detailed Cost Table
Us#
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                                     USS
1 9      1993     1994     1995     1996      1997   Total       F.Exch    Local    Taxes    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Line Materials                   0.0   1807.9  2348.0  3316.2  1923.6   210.2   9605.8           9605.8       0.0      0.0   9605.8
B. Uorks                            0.0   2084.2  2712.7  3840.0   2232.8   244.6  11114.3          8811.7  2302.6        0.0  11114.3
C. Consultants Services
Prep of Bidding Documents    223.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    223.1       223.1       0.0      0.0    223.1
Proj Mgmt and Supervision      0.0    230.6    299.5    422.9    245.3      26.8   1225.1      1225.1       0.0      0.0   1225.1
..... ... .... .... .... .... ........ .. ........ ........ ..........  ...... ... .... .. I- -----------
Sub-Totat                     223.1    230.6    299.5    422.9    245.3      26.8   1448.2      1448.2       0.0      0.0   1448.2
D. Tools & Equip for Nainten
Tools & Other Maint Equip      0.0      0.0    179.7       0.0      0.0      0.0    179.7       179.7      0.0       0.0    179.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               223.1   4122.6   5539.8   7579.1   4401.7   481.5  22347.9       20045.3   2302.6       0.0 22347.9
Total                             223.1   4122.6   5539.8  7579.1   4401.7    481.5  22347.9       20045.3   2302.6       0.0  22347.9
C============-_====GG==== = ====================~= =========== ===== ===============- =====
- Values scaled by 100B.0 5/5/1992 18:06
4-
0.
N



Angola                                                                 Arnex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table V6. Rehabilitation of the Northern System
Cazenga Substation
Detailed Cost Table
Us$
Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                               USS                                  Parameters
1992    1993   1994    1995    1996   1997  Total        F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Total   Phy. Cant. For. Exch. Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.
. . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . .......... ..............    -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - ........               ........ . . . .. . . . ... ... . .
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Equipent
220 kV Circuit Breakers     0.0     0.0  299.5      0.0     0.0     0.0  299.5       299.5     0.0    0.0  299.5            0.10       1.00       0.00 SUBEQNOR
Controt Panels              0.0     0.0  359.3    0.0       0.0     0.0  359.3       359.3    0.0      0.0  359.3           0.10       1.00       0.00 SUBEQNOR
Instrunent Transformers     0.0     0.0  179.7    0.0       0.0     0.0  179.7       179.7    0.0      0.0  179.7           0.10       1.00       0.00 SUBEQNOR
....... ......... ....... ....... ....... .. ..... .......   ....... ......... ... .... .. ;;;..
Sub-Total                    0.0     0.0  838.5      0.0     0.0     0.0  838.5       838.5     0.0     0.0  838.5
B. Uorks
Overhauling Works           0.0   92.7  149.7  170.8   73.2    5.4  491.9            390.1  101.8    0.0  491.9             0.10       0.80       0.00 LWSUBREN
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              0.0   92.7  988.1   170.8   73.2    5.4  1330.3    1228.5  101.8    0.0  1330.3
=___=== C=====u= --=S= =~===== *====Z * Q===u =~==u==      ====== ====m= ====a= ====U=
Total                            0.0   92.7  988.1   170.8   73.2    5.4  1330.3    1228.5  101.8    0.0  1330.3
Values scaled by 1000.0 5/5/1992  18:06
0



Angola                                                 Annex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table t5. Rehabilitation of the Northern System
Viana Substation
Detailed Cost Table
US,
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                                       USS
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996          997   Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
.,............................................................. ..........  ...............   ................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment
Switchgear, Auxilrs, etc.         0.0      0.0  1437.4       0.0      0.0      0.0  1437.4        1437.4      0.0      0.0  1437.4
20 NVA Power Trarsformer          0.0      0.0   299.5       0.0      0.0       0.0   299.5        299.5      0.0      0.0   299.5
SubrTotal                          0.0      0.0  1736.8       0.0      0.0       0.0  1736.8       1736.8      0.0      0.0  1736.8
B. Construction Materials               0.0      0.0   545.1   441.8        0.0      0.0   986.9        682.1   304.9        0.0   986.9
C. Erection and Civil Works
Erection & Commissioning          0.0    46.4    74.8    85.4    36.6          2.7   245.9         195.0    50.9       0.0   245.9
Civil Works                       0.0   185.9   300.4   343.3   147.3    11.0   988.0              682.6   305.3       0.0   988.0
...... ...... .......    .......... .......    .......... .......    ....... . .. .......    .......... .......    ............ . ................... ..............
Sub-Total                          0.0   232.3   375.2   428.8   183.9    13.7  1233.9              877.7   356.2       0.0  1233.9
0. Tools and Work Equipment
Cars fr Maintenance Crews         0.0      0.0    47.9       0.0      0.0      0.0    47.9          47.9      0.0      0.0    47.9
E. Consultants Services
Prepar Letter of Invitati   111.5          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   111.5         111.5      0.0      0.0   111.5
ProJ Msmt and Supervision         0.0    46.1    74.3    84.6    36.2           2.7   243.8        243.8      0.0      0.0   243.8
.......    .....   .    .......   .......    ....    .    .. ...    . . ..  . . ..    .......    .. ...    .. . .
SukbTotal                        111.5    46.1    74.3    84.6    36.2           2.7   355.3        355.3      0.0      0.0   355.3
.......    ......... .......    .........._ .......... .......    ....... . .. .......    .......... .......    ......... ..... .....................................
Total INVESTMENT OOSTS                   111.5   278.4  2779.4   955.2   220.0    16.4  4360.9             3699.8   661.1       0.0  4360.9
----  ------- a==== = =            =a       ===   =====           =e=== ====== ======= ======
Total                                 111.5   278.4  2779.4   955.2   220.0    16.4  4360.9            3699.8   661.1        0.0  4360.9
Values scaled br 1000.0  5/5/1992  18:06
0
?1 ,_e
N



Angola                                                 Annex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 21. Rehabilitation of the Central System
Hua bo-Quileva 150 kV Transmission Lines
Detailed Cost Table
uss
Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                                    USS
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    Total       f.Exch    Local    Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Spare Parts and Naterials         0.0   1614.0  2096.2  2960.5  1717.3    187.6  8575.6           8575.6      0.0      0.0  8575.6
B. Erection                         0.0   927.2   1206.9   1708.4   993.4    108.8  4944.7          3920.3  1024.4        0.0  4944.7
C. Consultants Services
Prep of Bidding Documents    133.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    133.8        133.8      0.0      0.0    133.8
ProJ Ngt and Supervision       0.0    184.5   239.6   338.3    196.3        21.'   980.1        980.1      0.0       0.0   980.1
.................. ........  ........... ..... ........... ..... ............ ........  ........ ....  .. ........  .... ..... ........  ........... .
Sub-Total                     133.8   184.5   239.6   338.3   196.3    21.4   1113.9             1113.9      0.0      0.0   1113.9
D. Tools and Work Equipment
Cars for Naintenance           0.0    92.2    143.7        0.0      0.0      0.0   236.0        236.0      0.0       0.0    236.0
Tools & Other Maint Equip      0.0      0.0    179.7       0.0      0.0      0.0    179.7       179.7       0.0      0.0    179.7
.......  ...... ..   ........  ......     ..... .  ..... .  ......  ---------          --------
Sub-Total                       0.0     92.2    323.4       0.0      0.0      0.0    415.6       415.6      0.0       0.0    415.6
.......    ........    ........    .. . ..    ... . .  ... . .     ... . .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                133.8  2817.9  3866.0  5007.3  2906.9   317.9  15049.8    14025.4  1024.4              U.0  15049.8
===----- -------- -- -   ------     -------- z--r_--- ==-----=    r-----=  *---r=         =======
Total                             133.8  2817.9  3866.0  5007.3  2906.9   317.9  15049.8    14025.4   1024.4              0.0  15049.8
Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:40
O s
Fb
0



Antola                                           Anmex 4.
Poemr Sector Rehabitlitation
Tdble V. Rehabilitation of the Central System
substations of guflevam, flopf, Alto Catuelta and Nuambo
Detailed Cost Tabte
US.
Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Totals Including Contifgencies                               USS
1992    1993    1994   1995    1996   1997   Total       F.Exch  Local  Taxes   Total
_........................................................................................   ................................
1. INVESNMT COSTS
................
A: EquSpnt                         0.0     0.0  1796.7  622.0    0.0       0.0 2418.7    2418.7    0.0    0.0  2418.7
B. Cb1rntlrulfing Vorks            0.0   417.3  673.4  768.8  329.4   24.5  2213.3    175S.3  456.0    0.0 2213.3
C. Comsuttonts Serwvices
Technical Audit             256.5    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  256.5          256.5    0.0    0.0  256.5
Preparation of B1dd Ooes   M11.5    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0   111.5        111.5    0.0    0.0   111.5
ProJ NMt and Sugervision      0.0   69.2  111.4  126.9   54.2    4.0  365.?            365.7    0.0    0.0  365.7
Sub-Total                    368.1    69.2   111.4  126.9   54.2    4.0  733.8          733.8    0.0    0.0   733.8
Total IWESIISEET COSTS              368.1  486.4  2581.5 S1517.6  383.6   28.5  5365.8    4907.8  458.0    0.0  53S5.8
uauauu aumaau    am uauuuzu u_ ma mm. 'ZZ                  ---s--- ------ --ma
Total                            368.1  486.4  2581.5  1517.6  383.6   2B.5  5365.8    4907.8  458.0    0.0  5365.8
- Values scaled by 1000.0 5/S11992 t7:40
0



Angola                                                           Annex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Tabte 2 . Rehabilitation of the Central System
Huambo Distribution Study
Detailed Cost Table
US.
Sreakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity      Unit Cost             Base Costs              Totals Including Contingencies                   USS
_inmam __                       u _=5                                   m 
92-97 Total     1992-97      1992   1993 94-97 Total          1992    1993 1994-97   Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
t. INVESTIENT COSTS
................
A. Engineering Studs            -     --                 100.0  350.0    0.0  450.0       111.5  403.5      0.0   515.0      515.0     0.0     0.0  515.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                      100.0  350.0    0.0 450.0        111.5  403.5      0.0   515.0      515.0     0.0     0.0  515.0
_U3UU UU~   UU3 C3UZU           333Uz *Ua=U N        =  3X 3    02    su           2
Total                                                    100.0  350.0    0.0  450.0      111.5  403.5       0.0   515.0      515.0     0.0     0.0  515.0
- Values scaled by 1000.0 5/5/1998 17:40
o



Arigos                                           Amiex 4.1
Pouer Sector Rehabilitation
Table 24. Rehabilitation of the Central System
RehabIlltation of Huambo Distribution Network
Detalled Cost Teble
US,
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contir encles                               USS
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Totel
1. INVESTNET COSTS
................
A. Equipment and Materials         0.0      0.0  1676.9     0.0     0.0     0.0  1676.9      1676.9    0.0    0.0  1676.9
S. Works                           0.0   140.2  207.5  395.1  465.8   69.5  1278.1           623.3  654.8    0.0  1278.1
C. Consultants Services
Proj Ngmt and Supervision     0.0   34.6   50.9   96.4   113.0    16.8  311.6           311.6    0.0    0.0   311.6
. ....    .... .......    .......... .......    .......... .......    ....... . .. -------   -------    ------.    ...----....---.............. ......... ....
Total INVESTMENT C-uSTS               0.0   174.8  1935.3  491.5  578.8   86.2  3266.6    2611.8  654.8            0.0  3266.6
=======                         ===  ======= =====  =====   __=====   ======   ====== =Z:===   ====
Totat                              0.0   174.8  1935.3  491.5  578.8   86.2  3266.6    2611.8  654.8    0.0  3266.6
- values scaled by 1000.0 5U5/1992 17:40
w 
o.
N



Angola                                                                  Amex 4.
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 3.0. Prepaxment Meters Program for Luanda
Detailed Cost Table
us$
Ouantity              Unit Cost                    Base Costs                            Totals Inctuding Contingencies
.U2S2Uu3       U     UnU    3U3U3Z = "UC===                                             C =2  UZ ==3U2=2
199   93-94 95-97  Total      1992-97      1992   1993   1994  1995  96-97  Total        1992   1993   1994   1995 1996-97  Total
1. INVESThEUT COSTS
A. Prepoy ent Meters                0   2500      0   5000           0       0.0 375.0 375.0   0.0    0.0  750.0           0.0  432.3  449.2    0.0    0.0  881.5
B. Nonitori;.4 of the Program          -         -      -           -        0.0    0.0  60.0  60.0    0.0  120.0          0.0     0.0   72.4   75.4    0.0  147.8
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                          0.0 375.0 435.0  60.0   0.0 870.0             0.0  432.3  521.6   75.4    0.0  1029.3
======= ---- ---   o=z =====         ====     ___= ====== ==8=  _          _====         ==
Total                                                                        0.0 375.0 435.0  60.0    0.0 870.0            0.0  432.3  521.6   75.4    0.0  1029.3
Unft costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:41
o a



Angola                                                          Arnex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Tabte 4.. Capacity Building for Maintenance in ENE and SONEFE
Detailed Cost Table
US$
Quantity           Unit Cost                   Base Costs                       Totals Including Contingencies
ss ==s==-==a=r    3====  ======================                             =====r=== c -   -   C=s==-=
1992  1993 94-97 Total    1992-97       1992   1993   1994 1995-97  Total         1992   1993   1994 1995-97  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.     .......   .. .
A. Maintenance Know-Now           -    -      -    -                     0.0  200.0    0.0    0.0  200.0           0.0  230.6    0.0    0.0  230.6
B. Expert Assistance              -    -    -    -             -         0.0  900.0  900.0    0.0  1800.0          0.0  1037.6  107C.0    0.0 2115.6
C. Coputers £ Peripheric Eq       0    8    0    8             10        0.0   80.0    0.0    0.0   80.0           0.0   92.2    0.0    0.0   92.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      0.0  1180.0  900.0    0.0  2080.0         0.0  1360.4  1078.0    0.0 2438.4
Total                                                                    0.0  1180.0  900.0    0.0  2080.0         0.0  1360.4  1078.0    0.0 2438.4
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 55/11992  17:41
o



Angola                                                  Arnex 4.I
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 5,1. Technical Assistance for Accounting
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Quantity      Unit Cost                 Base Costs                     Totals Including Contingencies
====== ===== =========  === == == == == == === == == == ==-==== == == == == == === == == == == =     --=
92-97 Total     1992-97      1992   1993 94-95 96-97  Total        1992   1993  1994   1995 96-97 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Software for Accounting         -              -        0.0  100.0   0.0   0.0  100.0         0.0  115.3   0.0   0.0    0.0  115.3
B. Exp Asst for Accounting      -     -           -       55.0   90.0  90.0   0.0 325.0         61.3  103.8  107.8  112.0    0.0  384.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                       55.0  190.0  90.0   0.0 425.0         61.3  219.0  107.8  112.0    0.0  500.1
=-=== ====== ====,= ====== ======    ====== ====== ===Z=== ====== ====== ======
Total                                                     55.0  190.0  9C.O    0.0 425.0        61.3  219.0  107.8  112.0   0.0 500.1
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:41
I-
o



Angola                                                                            Aiviex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 52. Technical Assistance for Stock Management
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Quantity          Unit Cost                            Base Costs                                         Totals Including Contingencies
XC===_==     =====           =========================8===__=8=___8C-
92-97 Total          1992-97         1992    1993  94-95    1996    1997  Total                 1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997  Total
...............   ......  ---------  ..........................................              -------------------------------------------------............................. ..............................................._ 
1. INVESTMNT COSTS
A. Software for Stock Ngmt                      -                  -           0.0   100.0       0.0      0.0      0.0   100.0           0.0  115.3        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  115.3
B. Exp Assist for Stock Mgmt                -       -              -           0.0    90.0    90.0    55.0         0.0  325.0            0.0   103.8   107.8   112.0    71.0          0.0  394.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                             0.0   190.0    90.0    55.0         0.0  425.0            0.0  219.0   107.8   112.0    71.0           0.0  509.8
Total                                                                          0.0   190.0    90.0    55.0         0.0  425.0            0.0  219.0   107.8   112.0    71.0           0.0  509.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0    Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992   17:41



Angola                                                      Anrex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitntion
Table 5.3. Technical Assistance for Commercial Operations
Detailed Cost Table
uss
Quantity      Unit Cost                    Base Costs                       Totals Including Contingencies
92-97 Total     1992-97       1992    1993    1994 1995-97   Total        1992    1993    1994 1995-97   Total
. . ...........-----      ................. ....... ............  ......  ---------------------------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Software/Commercial Oper.       -     -           -         0.0   200.0     0.0      0.0   200.0        0.0   230.6     0.0     0.0   230.6
B. Exp Asst Comiercial Oper.      -      -           -         0.0   350.0   450.0     0.0  800.0          0.0  403.5   539.0      0.0   942.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            0.0  550.0  450.0        0.0  1000.0        0.0  634.1   539.0      0.0  1173.1
Total                                                          0.0  550.0  450.0       0.0  1000.0         0.0  634.1   539.0    0.0  1173.1
_ =5 ==============- ====S====-  = =5============================-======== _ ===========5=============_-============___----------=======_
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:41
0



Angola                                                          Amex 4.1
Power Sector Rehabilitation
Table 6j. Technical Assistance to the Secretaria de Estado de Energia
Studies. New Institutional Fraeuaork for the Sector
Detailed Cost Tabte
USS
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity     Unit Cost             Btse Costs             Totals Including Contingencies                  USS
92-97 Total     1992-97     1992   1993 94-97 Total         1992   1993 1994-97  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
1. INVESTEWT CosT
............ .........
A. Consultants Services        -    -           -      125 0  200.0   0.0 325.0        139.4  230.6    0.0  370.0        370.0    0.0    0.0  370.0
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                     12.0  200.0   0.0  325.0        139.4  230.6    0.0  370.0        370.0    0.0    0.0  370.0
Total                                                  125.0  200.0   0.0 325.0        139.4  230.6    0.0  370.0        370.0    0.0    0.0  370.0
Unit Costs Scaled by  1 00.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  5/5/1992  17:41
o
N



.riola                                           Annwx 4.1
Power Secte Rehabilitation
Table 6i2. Technical Assistance to the Secretaria de Estado de Energia
Project Coordination Team
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingenmies                               US$
1992    1993    199.   1995    1996    1997   Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
............................................ .....................................................   ........... ..................... ................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Uerk Equipuent
Cars                          0.0    69.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   69.2        69.2     0.0     0.0   69.2
Coapqters 4 Peripheric Eq    33.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    33.5       33.5     0.0     0.0    33.5
Suk-Tntal                     33.5   69.2       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   102.6      102.6     0.0     0.0   102.6
B. Office Supplies                 5.6   23.1    24.0   24.9   25.8   26.8  130.1            130.1     0.0      0.0   130.1
C. Consultants Services          223.1   876.?  910.3  945.4  387.4  147.4  3489.7    3489.7    0.0             0.0 3489.7
Total INESTMENT COSTS               262.1  968.4  934.3  970.3  413.2   174.2  3722.5    3722.5           0.0      0.0  3722.5
=8_u  uu=s===  ==    ==8 =8--        = -  ===-   ======     ===== ======   ===;   ==
Total                            262.1  968.4  934.3  970.3  413.2  174.2  3722.5    3722.5    0.0             0.0  3 72.5
Values scaled by 1000.0 5/5/1992 17:41
o



ANNEX 4.2
ANGOLA: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT                  g
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR MAINTENANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Bacgund-
1.    Following independence, in November 1975, Angola suffered an exodus of professionals,
technicians and middle managers that caused a breakdown of industrial activity. The situation
worsened with the civil war, which meant an increased demand of qualified personnel on the part
of the military, as well as destruction of infrastructure through sabotage actions, difficult
communications, reluctance of qualified personnel to reside in the field (in hydro power stations
for example), lack of spares, etc.. All of these factors had a negative impact on the power
installations: power stations, substations and transmission lines were sabotaged, and maintenance
was very deficient or even inexistent.
2.    With the onset of peace, a vast reconstruction effort has begun. Numerous donors are
involved in the rehabilitation of the power infrastructure. A power sector rehabilitation project
to be financed by IDA is centered on rebuilding the main transmission facilities in the Northern
and Central Power Systems, that were heavily damaged by sabotage, and includes also the
overhaul of the lar'. - hydro plant in the country, the Cambambe power station (4 x 45 MW)
in the Northern s)  m.
3.    But the physical rehabilitation must be accompanied by the introduction of adequate
operation and maintenance practices to guarantee a long useful life of the installations. For that
purpose the Angolan power utilities need a technological transfer that has to cover both, the
technical and the management/organizational aspects. Where necessary, this assistance has to be
complemented with training actions so as to guarantee that the level of qualification of the
Angolan personnel is adequate to make this technological transfer possible.
4.    The Angolan utilities SONEFE and ENE wish to retain consulting services to provide the
operational assistance that is needed in this domain. These services shall comprise two
components:
i) the supply of maintenance know-how, in the form of technical documents, and
possibly software, providing:
a)    general instructions concerning the monitoring and maintenance
requirements of the main components in generation and transmission
facilities, to be used as a guide, together with manufacturers instructions,
in the preparation of the specific instructions for the monitoring and
maintenance of the power plants, substations and lines in Angola;
b)    a description of all the elements that will constitute the maintenance
system once it is completed;
c)    a set of procedures for the management of monitoring and maintenance
activities and a system of reporting;



ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 4
ii) expert assistance in the process of adapting these systems to the particular installations
and conditions in Angola, as well as in the execu ion of the actual maintenance activities
for a transitional period of about three years. The experts shall also collaborate in the
identification of training needs and in the design of the corresponding programs.
Scoge of Suggly and Services
S.    Maintenance Know-How. The consultant shall supply the know-how of a maintenance
system that must have at least three years of actual application by at least one power utility, and
that has given satisfactory results. The first element in this category shall be a collection of
technical guides for the maintenance of the main elements to be found in power installations.
These documents shall constitute a sort of encyclopedia of accumulated maintenance experience.
6.    The system shall provide a comprehensive method for the maintenance of a complex
installation, and include the following elements:
i)     Complete inventory of the equipments and installations to be maintained, with
systematic collection of all their technical characteristics.
ii)    Classification of the equipments into functional groups, with a view to help in the
optimization of the planning and execution of the maintenance.
iii)    A system of coding for the identification of the equipment, documents, costs,
etc..
iv)    Complete list of all drawings, manuals, and other technical docunentation for
each functional group of equipment.
v)    Definition of the spare parts to be kept in stock for each piece of equipment in
the installation, in order to ensure the desired reliability level.
vi)    Preparation for each piece of equipment of inspection and maintenance
instructions, indicating, as a minimum, the following:
* frequency of intervention;
* items to be monitored (such as wear, backlash, vibration level,
temperature, oil composition, insulation resistance, etc.), as well as the
indication of the normal ranges for the values to be measured;
* indication of anomalies that might be found and their possible causes,
as well as suggested corrective measures or verification tests;
* for more important works, instructions for dismantling and erection.
* resources needed in terms of personnel, maintenance equipment and
special tools, and an estimation of the time required;
* account number to which the expense should be charged, etc..



ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 4
These instructions shall incorporate the manufacturer's recommendations, the
operator's experience with the equipments, and any other applicable information,
particularly that contained in the above mentioned maintenance guides.
vii)   Historical files, to keep a record of all important events and changes affecting the
life of each piece of equipment.
viii)   A set of forms for recording the results of inspections or measurements
performed on the equipment.
ix)    Organized technical files for all technical information: manuals, drawings, test
reports, maintenance records, etc..
x)    Procedures to ensure safety of personnel and equipment during maintenance
works.
7.    A system of procedures for scheduling of inspections, analysis of results, decision making
concerning maintenance interventions that might be warranted based on the results of inspections,
scheduling of maintenance interventions, follow up of scheduled activities, coordination with
Operations, and a system of reporting.
E xer Assistanc
8.    As a basis for the planning of the implementation stage, the Consultant shall carry out
a review and assessment of the present situation concerning maintenance of generation and
transmission facilities. This will include the following:
i) Detrmination of the present organizational structure of both ENE and SONEFE for
operation and maintenance of the electrical systems. Identification of the persons in each
position within that structure and of their formal education as well as experience. This
will include particularly the organizational units responsible for operation and
maintenance of power stations, substations and transmission lines.
ii) Assessment of presently available provision of tools and equipment for maintenance,
spare parts stocks, and workshop and office space.
iii) Assessment of the situation concerning technical information: (i) manuals and
drawings, their use, and the procedures for keeping them up to date; (ii) operations and
maintenance records; (iii) technical reports on faults, system modifications, etc..
iv) Evaluation of past and present operation and maintenance practices, in the purely
technical aspect as well as in the administrative and in the safety aspects. Any available
records (operation and maintenance, accounting) shall be reviewed for this purpose.
9.    Based on the above described assessment the Consultant will define the minimum level
of supplementary resources to be provided for operation and maintenance of existing generation
and transmission facilities in terms of organizational structure, personnel (quantity and
qualification), tools and equipment, workshop and office spa-e, and technical and administrative
know-how.



ANNEX 4.2
Page4 of 4
10.   The Consultant shall review the content of programs financed from other sources, already
decided or in execution, that will contribute to fill the gap. Particularly, those components of the
Capanda hydroelectric project that have to do with organization, recruitment and training of
personnel, and transfer of operation and maintenance know-how shall be examined. Also, all
available previous diagnostics and studies for improvement of the operation and maintenance
functions shall be reviewed.
11.   Together with the Angolan counterparts in the different installations the Consultant shall
prepare a program for the implementation of the new maintenance methods. Then, he will advise
and assist during the implementation period. The Consultant shall encourage the maximum
possible participation of the local engineers and technicians.



ANNEX 4.3
ANGOLA: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT                   Page 1 or 3
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR MANAGEMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Purpo
The purpose of this activity is to create conditions for efficient management of the power utiliky
and improve its commercial operations. Competent consultants will be hired to design and
implement new systems and procedures in the areas of accounting, finances and billing and
collection. These consultants will be given adequate authority within the company to make sure
that their recommendations are put in practice.
Scope of the work
A.    Financial and Accounting Systems.
i)    Review and propose modifications to the existing systems and procedures in the
areas of (a) Payroll; (b) Cash Management; (c) Assets Management; (d) Stocks
Management; (e) Project Costing (Cost Accounting); (t) Accounts Payable; and
(g) General Ledger.
ii)    Assist the utility in the classification, inventorization and valuation of assets;
determine criteria for depreciation and for future asset revaluation; and design
and implement computerized systems and procedures for management of assets.
iii)   assist the utility in the verification and valuation of its stocks and design; and
implement computerized systems and procedures for stock control.
B.    Budget Planning. Preparation and Control
i)    Develop system  and procedures for computerized planning, preparation,
monitoring and control of budgets in the ,egions and at headquarters. The
system has be compatible with the main financial and accounting system.
ii)    Prepare annual and periodic budgets for the the utility as a whole and for the
regions, and budgets for specific activities, such as project expenditures.
C.    Preparation of Financial Statements
i)    Assist the staff in the preparation of Financial Statements (Income Statement,
Funds Flow Statement and Balance Sheet) for FY1992 and 1993, and of
Financial Projections for 1994-1999.
ii)    Ensure that staff are fully trained to carry out the preparation of Financial
Statements and of Financial Projections in sulsequent years.



ANNEX 4.3
D.    Management Information System (MIS)                               Page 2 of 3
i)    Analyze the information needs of management in order to monitor and control
the utility's performance for the present and the future.
ii)    Determine the data processing requirements to meet those needs, and identify the
necessary hardware and software.
iii)   Integrate the management information system  into the main financial and
accounting systems.
iv)    Implement the system with full involvement of the utility's staff.
v)    Propose and conduct seminars for the utility's management and the staff on the
purpose of MIS.
E.    Organization and Staffing of Finance Department
i)    Propose modifications to the present organization structure of the Finance
Department.
ii)    Determine the staffing needs in terms of number and necessary skills.
iii)    Assist the utility in recruitment of additional skilled professional staff.
F.    Intemal Control/Audit System
i)    Develop an adequate Internal Control/Audit System
if,    Propose and conduct seminars for the utility's management and the staff on the
purpose and function of the above system.
G.    Billing and Collection
i)    Provide assistance to the utility in updating the list of customers, their
consumption/billing and payment records in all regions/areas.
ii)    Completely overhaul the systems and procedures for meter reading, billing, bill
delivery and collection of amounts due, including:
a)    recommendations on computerization of billing and collection in all
regions;
b)    development of routines ,or meter reading, with appropriate checks and
controls;
c)    analysis and recommendation on ways and means for improving bill
delivery to and collection from customers (e.g, the use of private
delivery and collection agencies, extending the opening hours of the
utility's offices, making arrangements :ith banks, etc.);



ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 3
d)    recommendations on measures to discourage delinquency in the payments
of bills and illegal consumption; and
e)    recommendations to: (i) improve coordination and information flow
between sections responsible for effecting connections/disconnections and
those responsible for meter reading and billing; (ii) ensure acquisition
and installation of accurate, reliable and temper-resistant meters; (iii)
develop routine testing and repair/re-calibration of meters.
iii)   Integrate the billing and collection system with the main accounting/financial
system.
iv)    Propose modification to the present organization structure of the Commercial
Department and assist in the selection of the required staff.
v)     Assist in the establishment and operation of customer service centers, and in the
development of appropriate public relations programs.
H.    Staff Training
i)     Prepare an appropriate staff training program in the areas of finance, accounting
and commercial operation.
ii)    Assist the utility in the selection of staff for training.
iii)    Supervise the implementation of the training program.



ANNE$X 4.4
Page 1 of 6
ANGOLA
Team of Exnt for the Coordination of Projes
of the Power Sector Rehablitation Program
Ierm  of leeec
Background
1.   E"lectricity supply and consumption in Angola comprises three separated integrated systems and
several isolated centers. The Northem nys-em is associated to the watershed area of the Kwanza river
and includes the population centers of Luanda, Malanje and Gabela. The Central Sym is associated
to the Cntumbela river and the population centers of Lobito, Benguela and Huambo. Ihe oSg1rn
System is associated with the Cunene river and includes the population center of Lubango and Namibe.
The main isolated centers are those of Cabinda, Uige and Bid. The province of Lunda Norte has a
separated system used for diamond mining activities that belongs to the mining company ENDIAMA.
2.    Hydropower has always been the main source of electric supply in Angola.  The main
hydroelectric plants are Cambambe, with an installed capacity of 180 MW, Lomaum with 35 MW,
Matala with 27.2 MW, Mabubas with 17.8 MW and Biopio with 14.4 MW. The Capanda Hydroelectric
project, with an initial capacity of 260 MW, is presently under construction. To overcome the disruptions
caused by the civil war and acts of sabotages to the hydroelectric plants and transmission lines, additional
thermal generation was installed in the main population centers. Luanda has several gas turbines with
a combined capacity of 96 MW, including a new gas turbine of 40 MW that will start operation in 1992.
The Lobito-Benguela area has a gas turbine rated at 22.8 MW and a number of diesel units with a
nominal rating of 28 MW. Huambo has a gas turbine with a nominal capacity of 13.5 MW and diesel
units with a total of 4.9 MW. The Southern system has about 25.3 MW of iktalled thermal generation.
3.    The production, transport and distribution of electricity is the responsibility of state owned
enterprises, which are supervised by the State Secretariat for Energy and Water. I"e Emsa Nacional
de Elericidade (ENE), which was created in 1980 with the objective of becoming the sole national
power company, presently operates the Central and Southern Systems, as well as some of the isolated
centers. The Sociedade Nacional de Estudos e Financiamento de Empreendimentos Ultrmarinos
(SONEFE) produces and transports electric power in the Northern System and provides direct supply to
medium and high voltage industrial users in the Luanda region. lhe Empresa de Distribucao de
Electricidade de Luanda (EDEL) is responsible for the distribution of the power bought from SONEFE
in Luanda. The Companhia Electrica do Lobito e Benguela (CELB) was responsible for the distribution
of electri:ity in the Lobito-Psguela area, but has recently bee integrated into ENE. Some provincial
governments and municipalities also produce and distribute electric energy.
4.    Although angolan elctric utilities are striving to maintain service, the power sector has suffered
from more than fifteen years of economic and political dislocations. Severe shortages of foreign exchange
have resulted in inadequate mainenance and the sabotages and ravages of the civil war have caused
extensive damages to the physical installations. Ihe country has been seriously depleted of managerial,
technical and other skilled staff. The Declaration of Peace signed in May 31, 1991, has focused
attention on the task of reconstruction, which wiUl include economic reforms and rehabilitation of the
physical infrastructure.



-2-                               ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 6
5.    A comprehensive rehabilitation of the infrastructure for the production, transmission and
distribution of electricity is urgently needed. The sector also requires a considerable volume of technical
assistance to support the investment program, the internal reorganization and the changes in management
and procedures in the power companies, the establishment of efficient operation and maintenance and the
training of the required personnel. The execution of the rehabilitation program is, and should continue
to be, the responsibility of the power utilities and the State Secretariat for Energy and Water, but major
involvement of specialized foreign firms and consultants is necessary.
6.    A number of infrastructure rehabilitation projects are already under way, normally including a
technical assistance component, while others are in the process of negotiations. These projects are being
financed by multilateral lending organizations, such as the World Bank, the African Development Bank
and the European Investment Bank, and by bilateral agencies from Portugal, France, Spain, Italy,
Sweden, Norway and others. The total number of projects is large and the sources of financing are very
diversified.
7.    Managing the rehabilitation program for the power sector is a complex and unprecedentedly large
task for Angola. The rough estimates provided by the joint UNDP-World Bank Energy Sector
Management Assistance Program (ESMAP Report 142/91 of October 1991) indicate an amount of the
order of US$350 million in equipment and services for physical rehabilitation, technical assistance and
institutional support. In most of the contracts been executed, financial considerations have taken
precedence over a coordinated approach or an integrated strategy. Some contracts have been awarded
without any assurance that all the phases of the project have been properly identified, planned and
financed. Many times there has been no allocation of resources for the supervision of project execution
and this task cannot be done efficiently by the local power companies because of their limited resources.
8.    The foregoing considerations indicate that it is essential for the State Secretariat for Energy and
Water (SEEA) to be provided with long-term technical assistance to support, coordinate and plan the
implementation of a comprehensive power sector rehabilitation program. This assistance should ensure
the coordination of all the activities presendy under way or planned, financed by all multilateral and
bilateral agencies, support the SEEA and the power companies in the supervision of individual projects,
assist in the preparation of a well defined power sector rehabiiitation program and help in the negotiations
with financial agencies and donors. The SEEA has created a Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) that wil!
have administrative and managerial responsibilities over the implementation of some of the projects and
the Team of Experts for Project Coordination will provide assistance to this Unit, as well as to other units
of the SEEA and to the project implementation units of the power companies.
bjectiyes
9.    The objectives of the assistance to be provided by the Team of Experts for Project Coordination
will be to:
(i)   Ensure the quality of the planning and the execution of all investment projects aimed at
the rehabilitation and expansion of electric power;
(ii)   Establish a management information and control system for all projects, so as to enpble
the SEEA, in conjunction with the power companies, to monitor their execution;



-3 -
ANNEX 4.4
Pae 3 of 6
(iii)   Ensure that all technical assistance programs in the power sector, whether free-standing
or components of investment projects, to the SEEA and the power companies, are
consistent with an overall view of needs and priorities of the sector and appropriate in
relation to the available human resources;
(iv)   Advise the SEEA in negotiations with multilateral financial agencies and bilateral donors
regarding the formulation, financing, execution and supervision of physical infrastructure
and technical assistance projects;
(v)   Transfer skills and know-how to Angolan specialists so that in the future they can
perform the above-mentioned tasks on their own.
10.   The activities of the Team of Experts will start with a detailed diagnosis of the present situation.
This diagnosis will lead to the definition and development of new systems and procedures of supervision
and control of individual projects, as well as actions to improve execution and coordination. The Team
of Experts will be responsible for the implementation of !he new systems and procedures and for the
training of the local staff in their use.
Iana
11.   To achieve the indicated objectives, the experts must undertake, among others, the
following tasks:
(i)   Assess all ongoing and already negotiated infrastructure rehabilitation projects; evaluate
their technical quality, financial conditions, execution and supervision, and the linkages
among different projects; assess the effectiveness of the power companies and SEEA in
supervising project execution, specifically as regards physical targets and costs; propose
viable and substantiated changes in the content, execution and supervision of projects;
support the SEEA in negotiations aimed at increasig project efficiency and coordination;
(ii) Assess the technical assistance activities incorporated into the rehabilitation projects and
the associated programs for personnel training and for the preparation of manuals and
procedures; evaluate the suitability of these program given the available personnel for
operations and maintenance; make recommendations to SEEA and the power companies
on justifiable alternatives, and support them in negotiations for adjustments with donors,
contractors or consultants;
(dii) Assess the free standini technical assistance programs being implemented or already
negotiated; evaluate their content, their suitability for the available personnel in the SEEA
and the power companies, their implementation and the results obtained; propose viable
and justifiable alterations in their content, organization or procedures; provide support
in negotiations for changes with donors or consultants;



-4-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 4 of 6
(iv)   Design a project management and control system and implement it, with the appropriate
adaptations, in the SEEA and in the power companies; describe in each case the
operational system and define the organizational structure and the information process;
establish recommendations and guidelines for specific projects: power plants (hydro,
diesel and gas turbines), transmission lines, substations and distribution networks;
(v)   Defin.e the ipformation to be collected for the monitoring of the rehabilitation projects
b-,.g  implemented; define the specific responsibilities of contractors, supervisory
agencies, the power companies and the SEEA in the collection and processing of this
information; implement the management information and control systems in each project.
(vi)   Assess the procedures for measuring performance and maintenance in the rehabilitated
installations; propose necessary alterations in cases where the specifications are
inadequate;
(vii)  Support the SEEA in identifying priorities and in developing a comprehensive power
sector rehabilitation program; assist the SEEA in discussions with multilateral and
bilateral financial agencies about new projects to rehabilitate or expand the power
systems;
(viii)  Support the SEEA in analyzing the investment programs of power companies,
emphasizing their economic justification and the financial, ti nical and human
contingencies governing their implementation; support the SEEA in preparing and
justifying investment programs to be submitted to other ministries;
(ix)   Assist the Project Coordination Unit (UCP) of the SEEA in the management and
administration of the projects financed by ti.- World Bank, the African Development
Bank (ADB) and other agencies;
(x)    Undertake on-the-job training activities to transfer skills and know-how to local
counterparts;
(xi)   Prepare periodic reports on the execution of the Power Sector Rehabilitation Program to
be presented to the World Bank and the ADB.
Human Resources
12.   Achieving the objectives set out above requires a multidisciplinary team, with a number of
resident consultants and the services of specialists for short-term missions. This Team of Experts will
work in conjunction with the angolan personnel in the SEEA and in the power companies. It will report
to the State Secretary for Energy and Water through the Chief of Planning and Development. Within this
office a Project Coordination Unit has been created and each power company will appoint a high-level
officer to serve as liaison with this unit. The Team of Experts will assist this Unit as well as other
Departments of the SEEA and the project impleLlentation units of the power companies.



-5-
ANNEX 4.4
Page S of 6-
13.   The Team of Experts for Project Coordination will include personnel with the following
qualifications:
- A coordinator, with basic training in engineering and additional training in economics,
finance or management, and having proven experience in project management in the areas
of production, transmission or distribution of electricity. Preference will be given to
candidates who have held a management position in a large electric power company and have
experience in negotiating contracts with international agencies and contractors.
- A senior specialist, with basic training in engineering, economics or finance and a minimum
experience of 15 years in the areas of organization, finances and budget control. A
substantial part of his experience must be in the power sector.
- A computer specialist, with experience in the utilization and adaptation of basic PC software
packages for project management and in the development of management information and
control systems.
14.   The coordinator and the senior specialist must stay in Angola for a minimum of two years, which
could be extended for a further year. The computer specialist must stay for a minimum of one year,
which could be extended for another six months.
15.   In addition to the resident consultants, assistance in the form of short-term missions will be
required from experts in various fields. This includes the following:
- A power engineer specialist in design and evaluation of technical assistance for the operation
and maintenance of electric systems;
- Several power engineers specialists in the operation of distribution networks, HV/MV
substations, protections, hydroelectric power plants, diesel groups and other areas;
- An economist specialist in the evaluation of investment projects and feasibility studies in the
power sector;
- A financial analyst specialist in implementing budget and accounting systems in power
companies.
Material Resources
16.   For the establishment and operation of the Team of Experts during its 3-year appointment, a
number of material and financial resources will be required. The SEEA will be responsible for providing
the necessary office space at its main premises. All other major material resources are to be provided,
on a reimbursable basis by the consultants.



-6-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 6 of 6
This includ,s, as a minimum the following:
-  2 light vehicles and spare parts
-  1 four wheel vehicle and spare parts
-  3 complete IBM/AT compatible personal computer with printer and accessories
-  2 laptop computers
-  software
-  1 photocopier
-  1 typewriter
-  Office fiurniture and supplies
-  Telephone and fax machines



Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 4
ANGOLA: POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
!DEHABILrTATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OF HUAMBO
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    BACKGROUND
1.1    Within the framework of the Power Rehabilitation Project for Angola, IDA intends
to finance the rehabilitation of priority sections of the distribution network of the city of Huambo,
namely the industrial and downtown areas.
There has been no substantial investment In this network since 1975, which has resulted in
a gradual deterioration of the quality of service through the years, due to overloads and to the ageing
of the installations. The number of customers increased in the same period almost threefold, from
5,000 to about 14,000, a growth mainly confined to the residential sector, since industrial activities
suffered considerabl, dom the war.
1.2   Four different medium voltage levels are presently used in Huambo: 3.15, 6, 22.5
and 30 kV, and there is consequently a need for normalization.
The industrial park, the third largest in the country and the fastest growing at the time of
independence, suffered from nationalization, the flight of qualified technicians and sabotage, and was
largely abandoned for a time. Now, the govermnent has begun conversations with previous owners
for a possible restitution of their former businesses and resumption of operations. The reestablishment
of a reliable power supply is a necessary precondition for this.
1.3    Maintenance of the network has been deficient due to lack of materials and to the
destruction of tools and equipment in sabotage actions.
1.4   Most of the existing distribution system is underground and three phase. It is desired
to take advantage of the rehabilitation project to examine the convenience of introducing new design
and construction standards, with the purpose of reducing costs, thereby making the service of
electricity more widely accessible to the population.
1.5   The Empresa Nacional de Electricidade (ENE) wishes to retain consulting services
for the engineering study for the partial rehabilitation of the Huambo distribution system. The study
is to be done in two stages. The first one shall resolve the question of medium voltage normalization,
defining the level or levels to be retained, and establishing a timetable for the gradual elimination of
all others, and it will also determine the extent of the rehabilitation works to be executed under the
project, and the materials and equipment to be purchased. Particular attention should be given in this
phase to the search for least cost solutions.
The second phase will consist in the preparation of all technical specifications and bidding
documents required for procuring said materials, equipment and services.



Annex 4.5
1iage 2 of 4
SCOPE OF SERVICES
2.1    Brief Demand Study
2.1.1 The present load condition in the electrical distribution network shall be
determined: geographical distribution of loads, peak values, form of load curves for the different
types of consumers, reactive demand, etc..
2.1.2 All information available on which projections of demand evolution in space
and time could be based shall be reviewed: historical records, land use regulations, urbanization
plans, housing projects, plans for industrial recovery, demographic projections, etc.. As much as
possible the effect on electricity demand of an increase in tariffs will be ascertained.
2.1.3 Based on all the above, a projection of demand evolution in time and space
up to the year 2000 shall be prepared.
2.2    Diagnostic of the State and Performance ct Existing Distribution Networks
2.2.1 An assessment and diagnostic of the existing installations, their present state
and characteristics, shall be carried out. All available technical information shall be reviewed:
drawings and manuals, operation and maintenance records, etc.. Physical inspections of the
installations must be done. Particularly, the HT/MT substations will be inspected, and the state and
adequacy of the switchgear, protection equipment, metering, etc., will be evaluated. Also, protection
and sectionalizing arrangements in the distribution feeders themselves will be examined and assessed
for adequacy. The condition of cables will be assessed: age and damages suffered, estimated
remaining useful life.
2 2.2 A limited campaign of measurements for sample sections of the distribution
networks shall be carried out in order to assess the present performance of the system concerning
voltage drops, energy losses, overloading of circuit elements, need for reactive compensation, etc.
2.3   Identification of Rehabilitation, Reinforcement and Extension Needs
2.3.1 A plan for system expansion in order to respond to the projected demand
growth will be prepared. This will include the eventual need for new HT/MT substations and any new
developments in the HT network. Finally, based on all this, the voltage level. or levels, to be
adopted for medium voltage distribution will be chosen and a plan drafted for the gradual elimination
of the others.
2.3.2 After that preparatory work is completed, the Consultant will concentrate on
the definition of the rehabilitation works that are required for the industrial zone a .J the downtown
area of the city. Using the information on the existing networks and demands, load . iow calculations
shall be carried out to detect overloads and violations of the voltage constraint, that reveal a need for
reinforcements.
2.4    Definition of Alternative Technical Solutions
2.4.1 Ihe Engineer will identify possible technical solutions to satisfy present and
future needs in the downtown and industrial zones. In this task he shall strive to xind the technological
options that are best adapted to the particular conditions of Huambo. This will require that the use



Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 4
of standards different from those traditionally applied in Angola be explored, if they offer possibilities
of cost reductions with equi-v.1ent levels of system performance.
2.4.2 With a purely indicative character, the following technical possibilities can
be mentioned, as illustrative of the options that the Consultant shall consider:
- Overhead primary and secondary lines, as opposed to underground lines;
- Use of Aerial Bundled Cable (ABC) as an alternative to underground feeders, for
congested urban areas where the classical aerial solution is not possible;
- Use of single phase distribution lines, both primary and secondary, and single phase
distribution transformers, in areas where there are no three phase loads;
-   Use of pole mounted distribution transformers and capacitors;
-   Use of stayed poles;
-   Use of aerial service connections;
-   Reduction in the size of secondary networks through a corresponding extension of primary
networks and installation of smaller size distribution transformers;
-   Simplified methods for supplying public lighting circuits, including the use of photoelectric
cells;
-   Increased use of locally produced materials, such as wood poles and crossarms, common
hardware, etc.;
2.4.3 The Consultant shall take advantage of the possibilities of feeder
interconnections permitting load transfers as a means to increase reliability of supply. He shall also
keep in mind the objective of a good reliability and flexibility of operation when deciding on
protection and switching schemes. The eventual needs for reactive compensation shall be identified,
and the necessary installations recommended when economically justified.
2.4.4 Technical analyses shall be carried out to ensure that the rehabilitated sections
of the distribution system perform satisfactorily under normal operating conditions, concerning
loading level of its different elements and respect of the voltage constraint, and tolerably well under
emergency conditions. The expected value of yearly energy losses shall be calculated for each one
of the alternative solutions.
2.5    Economic  Comparison of Alternatives
2.5.1 The Consultant shall carry out a comparison of alternative solutions based on
the present worth of total costs. Investment costs shall include the cost of any eventual dismantling
or modifications to be done on existing installations. Operation costs shall include the cost of energy
losses, which will be valued at the long run marginal cost.
2.5.2 The technical offer shall include a description of the analytical tools that the
Engineer proposes to use in these comparisons.



Annex 4.5
Page 4 of 4
A simple method shall be proposed to take into account the level of reliability in the
comparison of competing alternatives for which there is an appreciable difference in this aspect.
2.6    EMaration of Intermediate Reoort and of Bidding Document
2.6.1 After complet-. of the first part of the study, the Consulrant shall submit a
report to ENE and to the Bank, summarizitig their findings and recommending the preferred solutions
for the rehabilitation works, based on the results of the economic comparison. The rehabilitation
project will be limited to those works that are needed immediately, or within one year of the
estimated s' rting date. Other works that will be necessary within the study's time horizon will only
be indicated.
2.6.2 The repo.t will include bills of quantities and brief specifications for the
materials, equipment and services that will be required under the project. The portions of the works
to be carried out respectively by contractors and by force account shall be specified and justified. A
work and disbursement schedule (divided into local and foreign currency) shall also be prepared.
The Consultant shall specify any tools, equipment and training that will be
necessary for the maintenance of the rehabilitated distribution networks.
2.6.3 Once the report for the first stage has been approved, the Consultant shall
prepare bidding documents for international competitive bidding. Ths World Bank's sample bidding
documents shall be used, except when special circumstances dictate otherwise. The departures will
be fully justified.
For as much as possible one bidding document will be prepared which will
contain several homogeneous schedules. The Bidders will be allowed to participate in any one
schedule, but if they so desire, they will be able to bid several, or all schedules.
3.    INPUTS TO BE PROVIDED BY ENE
3.1   ENE will provide the Consultant with all the information it has on the distribution
system concerned, and will act as an intermediary to obtain all other relevant information that may
be available from official sources.
4.    TIMING OF WORKS
4.1   It is estimated that the total duration of the study will be of five months, and that
about fifteen man-months will be nec   'y. The first four months would correspond to the first
phase.



IN60L1: POWIER SECTOR REDROILffRTION
Million  Procurement     Start                     t992 ld9    | iii f
Task N =e            US$      Mediod         nOate          note
Comiife lobYitnimu Softs     1. 28  MBDF.4Jo-                       5*%
indIa  I? cantroacib       0.0                                                               _____ -JM  MM
fthoidach"  V    "0.00                        __" _ _____                                                     __I M
. IN   u                   0.00                    17___ r_      _0_9
garb s casou*uj            0. 00              2_____.
cnime PmJ l"Ft D Sks    0. 202  MBI.                 20-0ct-2        3-Zec- M6
Pnimso MUt cmtuactg        9. 00on   ____          20-Oc-92      2"W-M~r9
PIuuiwm of Scruices        0. 00  _____            2"W-0lr9       3-Dec-96
lrmnsibsuiu LMies R8 i*tt   20. 72  KUI.              1-ihm-9       10-jun-l9    MMI_MOMNNW
8d_D Dikathq               0. 00                   In    3_ u0-Hu-92            M      _ I_ _
lm.facttwblg U Shjig      O, 0.0 on-uk2                           34W-H_                       __
RUI.- l.1                  0. 00           _      11-fi-9        17-09  _
larks D comsim"u   0. 00                           17-Dec-93               _ i-a                 _44
Tran Ies Pmaj "got D s0u     1.35  Other             248pr-9   2      D Z-Oec-* 
hPrapods    C    _mct      0. 00                   2Wkt          24Se    __      *O2
Pefrfm.uem of Saruiws      0. 00                  24__ Sep__92 ________
LuT_I Sdstatki Rehab         2. 71  NB.D.        _     i_2_         12__t__
81b ID Cct00bg             0. 00                   4_J___9_                    _       ___    ___IMM
Mm £ctarg D 9h             0. 00              ___       _   ;29_ e    _"                     _        _        __ _ _
inEztkUn                   0. 00                  1       1____ 17                       _ _ 
lakss D cainisu            0. 00   ___    _ _     112-&t-   _ ___  _____
Luanda Slis ProJ lpt D S4qaU    0. 24 KOF.           28-ct-92       22-Mw-%96
PrDsI a  Connb             0. 00                  _-t_2          294-W-0         m m
Perloms    of Swes   O      . 00                   2941pr-2      2296 _                             __



RNiOLR: POWER SECTOR REHRDITATION
IWWIDIfN  IMi PICUHN  SCIWl   FMR TIE PROIM
Million  Proeuremeb       Strrt S.1992                         19r      199       1995 1   1909 
Task Nae               US$      Method          note           nOate
Prqawtm  os    e. 00                                     3-oFeb-92      31-e *-92     _
Tastmaion  Rehatiot          13. 52  2c 93                                   -96     _____
ii D Contractn               0. 00                      .k 4J-92     2-Jl-93 
tlafachxEin D Shipig        0. 0o                    21- 9           295-J-9                                        _
MarF  I'm                 0. 00                     18-Jn-9        1-Oct-9      _
Woks 0 Umbyf                B. on                      7-OctO       24 Nm
Lebs Rab Proj Mpt SuU          0. 37  Othwer             2-Oct-92      1     -96_
Praposuls and CMotracng      . 0o                    ZF_24t-92      209-ApR-
Perfmuwe of Servis          0. 00                     2-t2            410-9fi                      _
Ibsta  si Rehabitatio           . 201   D                4-on-93        2fpr_-gb:
Bdig  D   Contracting        0. 0o    1 __ ___                                     __    ___   _   _
tl.uzfactluing 17 Shipping  0.00 o1--9                               7-F-95               _       _       
otm                         0. 00                    172-Jr-94      I11Rp-A94
Mbrks D' C.issi      O        . D000                  181-pr-94      29-e-96
9bs PUb Proj Mgt D Supu        0. 37  Otte              28-0ct-92 _ 14R-fl       _      *                   _          _
PrpXand Contractmg      D. 00                    2M0t-92        29-fp-93*_
Perfornance of SeruaBs      0. 00                    294Rpr-93       196  _                  _      _
oM- Oistrbiution study         0. 52  Othr               1-mj92        20-Hag-93     
oPm        and Cotractkg   0. on                     1-1e92         290t-942_ _
Perfennane of Seruices    B_. 00                      29-Oct-92     28fq9             *  _
Huo Oislr RetuX                1. 28  I                 28-HMayM       29-feb -9f_i
l"bWg D Cmtracta            B. 00                    2-V0           311-ou93__
fawcg"   I?                 U. 00                    30NO0274eb-*                                                                        CD
Mdtin  O. on             12-JuPA        11        _                      *                             _       !0
waft 0 cmbaong              U. Du                      1 1-0 29-FebO  _                                            X9_6_
_ _ _ _    1L                      4  _ f                          o as~~~~~~~~~~~



RNGOLR: POWER SECTOR REHRBILITRTION
MTOJUIN  1   UEtNIT SEIIUE FR TIE iRU
million    Procurement         sm                 End
TaO KnE                   USS         Meiod             nte                a             19                   1 
&lNW fist proj Ngt ? Supu           0.31   ot                     3O-Hh-0          30-l  .
. ropam  cOntract                a. 0D                        30-Mar-            2=-Sep-93
Perfmuuu2 of SenUiS              0. DO  _                     24-Sep-93 3q- Mj-9                                     _
I?~~~ ~ ~ .wn  D. on                      iU                                                                                 .-e-9
I   -ip' -
mhkmg I   cantracthig              u. aa                         24-imu-9         12-Nnv-93              ___                    ______                _
mmdI b   mig 0     C Dnra O "n    0. on   ____4 _           ___    ___           __   _  _                _  _     _  _   _     _  _
l   uf c u   ig _ii~ig               O D    _     _  __   _  o. _    _ _               oo_                           I _       _  _ _     _  _ _      _ _
Instulatuin              o~~~. Oaa _ _  _  _ _        27-Jan-91         2e-amU-9J                _ _  _     __ _  _  _  _ _  _  __  _ _     _  _
IlautalnguD 0. is  ote                                           12- 9              31-ec-9        _ _ __
Proposals an  Contrctng"             0. 00                         1-JUm--92        31-Dec-92____
l~~ahiUzatian              a~~. a a                      3-Feb-93           741pr--93     ___ 
Perroi-mane of Senilce              0. 00                          7-Apr-93          A-Apr-%f
=       ~                                  .
Pr-Dposdis and Contractin           0. 00                          I-t-du-92          -M9
E. PI  Li                     We -*            ri Me  2-
E&ldh9tin    -                      0 . 00 21 _______2_____                                _       _~ _
._      _   _  _  _ _  _  _  _     _ _  _      _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _     _   _  _  _   _     _  _ _  .  __                               _   _ _  _  _



RNGOLR: POWER SECTOR REHRBIUTOTION
LDNMOD am PRDO Hr SOIU FMA 1 PTM R
.                 ~~~~~~Million  Ercrmn    Stan           EN         199Z      g  191  t9      19!f;    19 199    7
Task 1m              US$      neio            ote          Oate      __
r of serb                  D. oD                   0- w _       _   _ *
1nsf1111    Hefl m           0. 37  Other      1_j_       9 _1__ =                     _
PpmIa  Emi cOm.00 _D._on_                          -tlj-92       2-d-92 -
Pferimumw of Series       0. 00                      i-94  _     -_W-Wl
Project v_m                  3. 49 Other            I-e-92        22-zC-97 
s  ad Oactg               0.00 Go                 1-            fi--92    _  
HalUzatkl                  0. 00  _ __    _       Hkt-9Q__ OD_ _ __ _______- _t _
Perfmwaw of Seris         U. 00                  3Doct-92       72-      _ _-__
_  ._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ________
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _%
_                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



ANGOLA: POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Profile Comparison
Cumulated Disbursement in %
120
1 1 0   _................I.........................................................................................................................................................................   ...... .. .....................   ----- -x MM
100  =- .= 
90    2    4    6                                       0 1                  4 1                   8 2                  2 2
9 0   _  .......... ................................................  ..... .............................  .............      ..........
70   _.     ...................................................... .........I.. .......          ..     .. .........  .......................
40 _. ...         . .e.e..   g  R.        ................       .P                        Pi
30  ..                                         1                                                                 
0    2    4    6    8    10   12   14   16   18   20   22   24
Ouarters from Approval l)ate
i3  IDA Emerg Reconstruc                                             ProJect Prof ile
°  WB Powr Proje Africa
Std Profiles from OPN 3.11 c (II)                                                                                                                             m ,
4'-
0 .r
0'



ANNEX-46
Page 6 of 6
DMSBIIRSMIET SCIIVE
YEAR         IDA          AfDB         EIB     GOVERNMENT    TOTAL
1992            1.6          0.0         0.3           0.0            1.9
1993            7.8          3.5         0.5           0.9           12.6
1994            11.5         4.7    T   6.6             1.4          24.2
1995            8.0          6.3         1.2            1.9          17.4
1996            4.1          3.7         0.4            1.1           9.3
1997            0.5          0.4         0.3           0.1            1.1
TOTAL           33.5         18_6_9_0                   5.4          66.5



ANNE 4.7
Page 1 of 2
POWER SEC1Y)R REIUAIL=ATIN  IQlC
Supe-rvision Pla
1.    EDA Suservision Input intc Key Activities. The staff input indicated in the table below
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence, etc. This regular needs ame estimated to require ten staff-weeks during
the first year of project implementation and six staff-weeks thereafter.
2.    Borrower'. Contribution to Sunervision.
(a)    Progress reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)   at three-month inteivals, with content to be agreed upon during the first
IDA supervisicn mission.
(ii)   by the Project Coordination Unit (UCP) in the Secretaria de Estado da
Energia e Aguas (SEEA), which will consolidate the reports prepared by
the Implementation Units in ENE and SONEFE.
(b)    Audit reports within six months of the end of each fiscal year from ENE,
SONEFE and the UCP. External auditors, acceptable to IDA, will be selected,
using Bank's procedures.
(c)    Project review meeting with the participation of the various project agencies will
be held at least three times a year normally during IDA supervision mission.
The meetings will be chaired by the Chief, Cabinet of Studies and Planning,
SEEA.
(d)    The UCP will be responsible for coordinating arrangements with the utilities for
Bank supervision missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(e)    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will be chaired
normally by the State Secretary for Energy and Water or his representative, with
participati  of the Chiefs of the Cabinet of Studies and Planning and of the
UCP.



ANNEX 4.7
Page 2 of 2
MI}A SupffAu'ln Igut Into Ka Acivtties
Approximate          Activitv                             Expected Skill                      Staff
Dates                                                   Requirements                        Input
June 92               *Review of Bidding Documents for     Economist/Engineer                 2.0
Rehabilitation Works
June 92              *Mission to launch    attunal         Economist                          5.0
studies and legal reJ.-.            Engineer
*Donor coordination meeting         Institutional Exoert
Financial Analyst
Oct. 92              *Review of consultant reports on     Economist                           4.0
institutional studies               Engineer
*Awarding of contract for rehabilitation   Institutional Expert
works and capacity building management Financial Analyst
Nov. 92               Supervision Mission: progress in    Economist                           8.0
works, tariffs, improvements in     Engineer
accounting, institutional studies,  Financial Analyst
training                           lIstitutional Expert
Mar. 93               'Supervision Mission: review of     Economist                           8.0
institutional and legal proposals   Engineer
*Closing of financial accounts       Financial Analyst
Institutional Expsrt
June 93              *Supervision Mission: completion      Economist                          6.0
of legal reforms, progress in       Engineer
works and institution building      Institutional Expert
Nov. 93              *Supervision Mission: tariffs,       Economist                           8.0
institutional improvements, progress  Engineer
in works and institution building   Financial Analyst
Institutional Expert
19>.                 Three supervision missions           Economist                           3x4
including Mid-Tean Review            Engineer
Financial Analyst
Instiutional Expert
1995                 Three supervision missions                                               3x4
1996                 Three supervision missions                                               3x4



6NNEX S. I
Page I of 1
ENE - INCOME WATMNS
'In millions of KWANZA)
Generation (Hydro) - Gwh
Generation (Therm) -GAh
Total Genoration -GAh
Sales -Gsh
Av. RevKwsh - Kz
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales of Electricity                                                       196.0             448.0
Sales of Materfals                                                         344.0             204.0
Other Pwenues                                                                00              101.
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                                          610 0            753.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel                                                                       133.0             43.0
Materials                                                                  193.0             184.0
Salaries                                                                   254.0             299.0
Others                                                                     1                 232.0
TOTAL OPERATION EXPENSES                                          743.0           1158.0
Income Before Depreciation                                                -133.0            -405.0
Depreciation                                                               21                24
OPERATING INCOME                                                          -334.0            -650.0
Payments of Local Government                                               118.0             145.0
Other Income (Expense)                                                      -5.0             197.0
Operational Interest, etc.                                                   2.0               3.0
NET INCE                                                                  -223.0            -111.0
Ratfos and CounCrators:
Fuel Cost/Elec. Sale                                                         0.68              0.99
Working Ratio                                                                 1.22             1.54
Operating Ratio                                                               1.55             1.86



Page 1 of 1
ENE - BALANCE SHEM
(an millions of Kwanzas)
1989            1990
ASSETS
Fixed Assecs in Operation                                3,864            4,360
Less: AccLr. Depraciation                               2,387            2,592
Hle frixed Assets in Oper.                               1,297            1,768
Wor  in Progress                                         1,556            1,90
Total Fixed Assets:                            2,853            3,673
0th r Long-Term Assets:
Investments                                         0             505
Other                                             351              398
Subtotal                                          351              903
Q RHEIT ASSETS
Cash                                                       254              681
Accounts Receivable                                        490              725
Other Receivables                                           169             600
l.aterials                                                 798              975
Prepaid Expenses                                             0                11
Others                                                        0                0
Total Current Assets                            1,711           2,992
Other Assets                                                  0                0
TOTAL ASSETS                                   4,915            7,568
CAPITAL AUD LIABILITIES
C-pital                                                  2,463            3,180
Government Participation                                   871            2,499
Reserves                                                     0                0
Retained Earnings                                        (223)            (534)
Sub-Total (Equity)                             3.111            5,145
LONG TERi DEBT
Total Long Term Debt                                       844            1,145
Other Long Term Liabilities                                   0                0
Sub-TotaL                                         844            1,145
CURREUIT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                           292              556
Short-ter,., Borrowing                                     668              722
Other                                                         0                0
Sub-Total                                         960            1,278
TOTAL CAP. + LIAS.                             4,915             7,568
RATIOS AND COMPARATORS
Current Ratio                                                 1.8              2.3
Months Accounts Receivable                                  30                19
Debt/Equity Ratio                                             0.3



ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 1
SNQ E - I[COME  s r
(In millions of Kwanza)
1988
Generation (Hydro) - Gwh
Gemration (Them) - Gwh
Total Generation - Gwn                          655
Sales/Blled -Gwh                                          554
Av. Rev/Kwh - Kz                                            0.54
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales of ElectrIcity                                      350
Sales of Materials                                          0
Other Revenues                                             66
TOTAL Operating Rev.                            416
0 WER"T11in EXPENSE
FuelM                                                      74
Haterlats                                                   0
Salaries                                                   88
Admin. & General Exp.                                      51
Others                                                    101
Total Operating Exp.
Income Before Depreciation                                102
Depreciation                                              126
OPERATING INCOME                                          -24
other Income (Expense)                                     15
operational Interest, etc.                                -25
NET INCOME                                                -34
Ratios and Comparators:
Fuel Cost/Elec. Sale (23/15)                                0.21
Working Ratio (31/19)                                       0.75
Operating Ratio (31+34) /19                                 1.06



ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 1
SONEFE - BALANCE SHEEU
(in ndllions of Kwanza)
ASSETS
FixedAssets in Operation                                 3,810
Less: Accumu. Depreciation                                 909
Net Fixed Assets in Oper.                                2,901
Work in Progress                                         1,342
Total Fixed Assets                             4.243
Other Long-Term Assets:
Investments                                       120
Other                                             760
Subtotal                                          880
CtURRENT ASSET                                              2
Cash                                                        21
Accounts ReceivabLe                                        341
Other Receivables                                           115
Materials                                                   104
Prepaid Expenses                                             0
Others                                                        0
Total Current Assets                              581
Other Assets                                                  0
TOTAL ASSETS                                   5,704
CAPITAAND LABILITIES
Capital                                                    600
Govermnent Participation                                     0
Reserves                                                   832
Retained Earnings                                          715
Sub-total (Equity)                             2,147
LONG-TERM DEBT
Total Long Term Debt                                       649
Other Long Term Liabilities                              2,680
Sub-Total                                      3,329
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                            32
Short-term Borrowing                                       196
Other                                                         0
Sub-total                                         228
TOTAL CAP. + LIAB.                            5704
RATIOS AND COMPARATORS
Current Ratio                                       2.5
Months Accounts Receivable                         12
Debt/Equity Ratio                                   1.6



ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 2
ENE - PROJETE INCOME II
(in millions of Kwanza)
Energy Produced (Hydro) GWN
Energy Pro.c ed (Therm) GWH
Energy Purchased GUH
Total Energy (GUN)
Energy Bitted/Sold (GUN)               181          247          293          318          346
Sales to NT                   104         139          162          178           196
Sales to ST                    74         105          127          136           145
Sales to IP                     3           3            4            4             5
REVENUES
From NT                                   698          620          920          1024
From BT                                  1178         1530         1795          2034
From IP                                    L2          z?            A             Su
Subtotal                                 1885         2375         2742          3091
Other Revenues                            2U Za                     Z56           26
TOTAL REVENUES                                     2131         2626         2996         3352
EXPENSES
Salarles                                           1300         1430         1574         1731
Purchased Energy                                     22           31           46           51
Fuel for Energy Produced                           2771        3134          US            422
Naterfals                                          1087         1178         1226          1278
0 aK                                                 41           45           50            55
Adiinfstration, etc.                                in           3            379
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                          -5534         6163         3720         3954
INOMME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                      C3,403)     (3.537)        (722)         (602)
Depreciation                                        m8l         &WiZ         30           3
OPERATING INCOOE                                (5,284)      (5,979)     (4,024)       (4,465)



Page 2 of 2
am  a~m  am   m   am  am
InfLattan - loeal oC )                        20           40           40           20           20
Inflation (CC lativwo)             1            1.2         1.7          2.4          2.6          2.8
Fuel Corns tion (Lt/KWh)                        0.32        0.32         0.32         0.32         0.32
Fuel Cost CZ/Lt)                  11          33           48           48           48           48
Tariff for NT (KZ/kwh)                          1.57        5.5          5.5          5.5          5.5
Tariff for BT (1K/kwh)                          4.77       16.5         16.5         16.5         16.5
Tariff for IP CZ/kwh)                           1.37        7            7            7            7
Coltection Factor - NT (X)                                 90           92           94           95
Collection Factor - BT (X)                                 68           73           80           85
Collection Factor - IP (U)                                 90           92           94           95
Collection Factor - 0th. (X)                              100          100          100          100



Page 1 of 2
(in mrllions of Kwanza)
Enorgy Produced (N)dro) GUN
Energy Produced (Therm) GUH
Energy Purchased GON
Total Energy (GMM)                         S15        8w6          937        1021
Energy Billed/Sold (GWN)                   732.2       776.8       840.5       926.4
Sales to NT                       577.6       612.1       672.4       730
Sales to BT                         0           0           0           0
Sles to IP                          0           0           0           0
Sates to Other                    154.4       164.7       166.1       196.4
REVENUES
From NT                          3176        3367        3698        4015
From BT                             0           0           0           0
FromIP                              0           0           0           0
From Other                        S10         725         740         864
Subtotat                             3687        4091        4436        4879
Other Revenues                              10          10          10          10
TOTAL REVENUES                            3697        4101        4448        4889
EXPENSES
Salaries                                  1654        2410        2892        3471
Purchased Energy                            22          31          46          51
Fuel for Ergrsy Produced                  1100         8e1         778         766
Administration, etc.                       457         480         460         480
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                  3433        3802        4196        4768
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                 264         299         252         12
Depreclation                               259         351        1122        1223
OPERATING INCOME                             5        (52)       (870)      (1102)



ANNEX 5,6
Page 2 of 2
SONEFE - ASSUMPrIONS USED IN TJR FINONC"f 120,TIONS
Inflation - local CX)                          20           40           40           20           20
Inftation (Cummutetive)                         1.2          1.7          2.4          2.6          2.8
Fuet Consumption (Lt/IKh)                       0.32         0.32         0.32         0.32         0.32
Fuwt Cost CKz/Lt)                              33           48           48           43           48
Tariff for MT CKZ/kwh)                          1.57         5.5          5.5          5.5          5.5
Tariff for BT CKZ/kwh)                          4.77        16.5         16.S         16.5         16.5
Tariff for IP (C2/kwh)                          1.37         7            7            7            7
Tariff for Other (VK/kwh)                                    5.5          5.5          5.5          5.5
Collection Factor - NT (X)                                 100          100          100          100
Collection Factor - ST CX)                                  68           73           80           85
Collection Factor - IP (X)                                  90           92           94           95
Collection Factor - Other (X)                               60           80           80           80



ANNEX 6.1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                           Page 1 of 11
1.    Internal rates of return were calculated for: i) the rehabilitation of the Northern Power
System, and ii) the rehabilitation of the transmission lines and the substations in the Central
System. This latter analysis was done separately for the stretches Lomaum-Huambo and
Lomaum-Quileva. The period considered in the analyses goes from 1992 to 2015. The benefits
were estimated in terms of: i) the reduction of thermal generation that the project will bring
about, and ii) the reduction in power outages due to faults in the transmission line presently in
service. It was supposed that these benefits would be available beginning in 1995. Conservative
assumptions were made concerning the cost of both thermal and non supplied energy. The costs
of the project were taken as only the investment costs, including contingencies, disbursed along
the period 1992-1996. The details of the procedure followed and the assumptions made are
presented below. The basic data on which the analysis is founded are attached.
NorthernSyste
2.     Only the load of the Luanda region was considered in the case of the Northern System.
The estimation of the thermal generation and non supplied energy were based on the following:
a) Presently, all priority loads in Luanda are supplied from one of the gas turbines,
separated from the main system, in order to shield them from the frequent interruptions of the
supply from Cambambe. This is done during the heaviest part of the rainy season, when outages
due to rain, wind, and lightning are frequent, given the precarious conditions of the line, and also
in the dry season, during the period of the "queimadas", or burning of the fields, when the thick
smoke causes problems too. For the year 1992 the corresponding energy generation will be about
50 GWh, based on an estimated five months per year of such operation, and from the gas
turbine's records, which show an average load of 14 MW. It was assumed that this load would
grow at the same rate as the total load of the Luanda region.
b) In 1991, the total outage time due to faults for the transmission line that is in service
was 512 hours. From information on the present level of demand in Luanda,the average power
cut by each interruption in 1992 can be estimated at 53 MW, excluding the above mentioned
priority loads. Since the situation can not get better if nothing is done, it was supposed that total
outage time would remain at 512 hours per year for the alternative "without the project". The
product of the average power cut and the annual outage time results in a block of energy that will
be either non supplied, or that will have to be produced thermally. It was assumed that every
year half of this energy block will go to each one of those categories. Since this energy is
estimated from an average value of power demanded, it will also grow at the same rate as the
general demand. There are also interruptions caused by faults in the Cambambe plant itself, but
they were not taken into account for lack of sufficient information.
c) Although there will be a total of 3650 GWh per year of hydro energy available from
the Capanda and Cambambe power stations, the transport capacity of the line that is presently
in service between Cambambe and Luanda is limited to 200 MW (which would permit the
transfer of 1750 GWh per year, at most), therefore, after excluding the priority loads and the
small supply from the Mabubas hydro plant, the Luanda peak demand in excess of 200 MW will
have to be covered with thermal generation. This part of thermal generation was estimated by
assuming a simplified annual load duration curve for the corresponding demand, and calculating
the energy above the 200 MW level.
In conclusion, then, thermal generation was estimated as the sum of three components:
generation for the priority loads, half of the block of energy corresponding to the line outages,



ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 11
and generation to cover peak demand beyond the point where the line is loaded to its full capacity
of 200 MW. Non supplied energy was supposed to be equal to half the block of energy
corresponding to line outages.
3.    The energy demand of Luanda for 1992 was estimated from information collected during
the appraisal mission. The following ESMAP's assumptions concerning rate of growth in the
Northern System were adopted: 8.4 percent per year up to 1995, 10.4 percent from 1995 to the
year 2000, and 7 percent thereafter. As indicated above, this rates of growth were also applied
to the priority loads in Luanda and to the block of energy corresponding to the line outages.
4.    The annual cost of non supplied energy and thermal generation attributable to the
unreliability of the supply from Cambambe was calculated using a value of 0.06 US$/kWh for
the thermal, which corresponds only to the fuel cost of gas turbine generation, and of ten times
that value, or 0.60 US$/kWh, for non supplied energy.
Central System
5.    In the Central System the 150 kV lines are out of service, except for the 17.5 km long
stretch from the Biopio hydro plant to the Quileva substation, that supplies the Lobito-Benguela
area (62 percent of the system's load). The other important load center (28 percent of the load)
is the city of Huambo at the other end of the system. If no line rehabilitation was done, only the
Lobito-Benguela area would benefit from some hydro generation -- the 41 GWh average annual
production of Biopio. All the rest would have to be supplied by thermal generation, or be
rationed, as is presently the case. Subtransmission and rural distribution are fed from the 150
kV substations along the line. Their refurbishment is also necessary to guarantee a reliable
supply to all these other areas once the lines are back in good operating order.
6.    ESMAP's assumptions concerning demand growth were adopted for the analysis: 8.3
percent rate of growth up to 1995, 10.4 percent from 1995 to the year 2000, and 7 percent
thereafter. The level of demand for 1992 and its distribution among the load centers was
estimated from information provided to the pre-appraisal mission in November 1991.
7.    Since Lomaum, the main source of hydro generation in the Central System, is situated
approximately midway between Quileva and Huambo, it was decided to take it as a reference
point to divide the transmission line rehabilitation costs in two parts, those corresponding to the
stretch from Quileva to Lomaum and those corresponding to the stretch from Lomaum to
Huambo. Based on their respective lengths and number of damaged towers, the total cost was
allocated in the proportion 0.35/0.65 to the two stretches. The costs of substation rehabilitation
were allocated in the same proportion, in view of the greater needs of the Alto Catumbela
substation, in the Lomaum-Huambo stretch. Finally, the 10 percent of demand that comes from
areas other than Lobito-Benguela and Huambo, were allocated in equal shares to these two
stretches.
S.    It was supposed that the hydro production from Biopio and Lomaum would be
distributed between the load centers in proportion of their respective demands for the case when
the lines are rehabilitated. The avoided fuel costs, calculated on the basis of 0.06 US$/kWh,
grow up to the year 2005 and then remain constant, since the hydro capacity is completely
absorbed by the demand after that date. The seasonality of hydro production (both hydro plants
are run of river) was taken into account. The demand in the Central System does not show a
seasonal variation and was therefore supposed to be divided between the dry and the rainy
seasons in proportion of their respective durations.



ANNEX 6.1
Page 3 of 11
9.    The calculation of the internal rates of return, which was done using LOTUS, results in
the following values:
Northern System Rehabilitation   37 percent
Central System Rehabilitation
- Huambo - Lomaum stretch        30 percent
- Lomaum - Quileva str- tch      60 percent
The corresponding tabulations are shown in the following pages.
10.   A sensitivity analysis to the rate of growth of demand was carried out. The average rate
of growth of demand for the whole period of study is of 7.9 percent per year, with the ESMAP
assumptions adopted. The average rate of growth was made to vary between 4 and 12 percent
per year with the following results:
IRR, percent
Average Rate of Growth of Demand
4,           12%
Northern System                  30            47
Central System
Huambo-Lomaum stretch           26            34
Lomaum-Quileva stretch          52            69



ANNEX 6.1
Page 4 oT 11
ANGOLA: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOR THE REHABILITATION OF THE NoRTHr'RN SYSTEM
COST OF
LUANDA   THERMAL    NON    THERM +  THERM +
YEAR  DEMAND   GENERAT   SUPPL  NON SUPP NON SUPP   INVEST   BENEF        NET
GWh      GWh      GWh       GWh    Mn US$   Mn US$   Mn US$   Mn US$
1992    640.0     65.0      15.0     80.0      12.9      2.3       0.0     -2.3
1993    693.8     70.5      16.3     86.7      14.0     29.8       0.w    -29.8
1994    752.0     76.4      17.6     94.0      15.2     12.3       0.0    -12.3
1995    815.2     82.8      19.1    101.9      16.4      5.9      16.4     10.5
1996    900.0     91.4      21.1    112.5      18.1      1.1      18.1     17.0
1997    993.6    100.9      23.3    124.2      20.0      0.0      20.0     20.0
1998   1096.9    111.4      25.7    137.1      22.1      0.0      22.1     22.1
1999   1211.0    123.0      28.4    151.4      24.4      0.0      24.4     24.4
2000   1336.9    137.5      31.3    168.8      27.0      0.0      27.0     27.0
2001   1430.5    159.6      33.5    193.1      29.7      0.0      29.7     29.7
2002   1530.7    194.8      35.9    230.7      33.2      0.0      33.2     33.2
2003   1637.8    243.2      38.4    281.6      37.6      0.0      37.6     37.6
2004   1752.5    304.8      41.1    345.9      42.9      0.0      42.9     42.9
2005   1875.1    380.0      43.9    423.9      49.2      0.0      49.2     49.2
2006   2006.4    468.9      47.0    515.9      56.3      0.0      56.3     56.3
2007   2146.8    572.0      50.3    622.3      64.5      0.0      64.5     64.5
2008   2297.1    689.7      53.8    743.5      73.7      0.0      73.7     73.7
2009   2457.9    822.4      57.6    880.0      83.9      0.0      83.9     83.9
2010   2630.0    970.9      61.6   1032.5      95.2      0.0      95.2     95.2
2011   2814.1   1135.6      66.0   1201.6    107.7       0.0    107.7    107.7
2012   3011.1   1317.4      70.6   1388.0    121.4       0.0    121.4    121.4
2013   3221.8   1517.1      75.5   1592.6    136.3       0.0    136.3    136.3
2014   3447.4   1735.5      80.8   1816.3    152.6       0.0    152.6    152.6
2015   3688.7   1973.7      86.5   2060.2    170.3       0.0    170.3    170.3
Coat of thermal generation: 0.06 US$/kWh
Cost of non supplied energy: 0.60 US$/kWh
NPV=   244.0 Mn US$ (10 % Discount Rate)
IRR=    0.37



ANNEX 6.1
Page 5 of 11
ANGOLAs POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEMAND PROJECTION FOR THE CENTRAL SYSTEM
GWh
TOTAL               LOBITO    OTHER
YEAR   DEMAND    HUAMBO   BENGUELA   AREAS
1992     157.0      44.2       97.1      15.7
1993     170.0      47.9      105.2      17.0
1994     184.1      51.8      113.9      18.4
1995     199.4      56.1      123.3      19.9
1996     220.2      62.0      136.2      22.0
1997     243.1      68.4      150.3      24.3
1998     268.3      75.5      166.0      26.8
1999     296.3      83.4      183.2      29.6
2000     327.1      92.1      202.3      32.7
2001     350.0      98.5      216.4      35.0
2002     374.5     105.4      231.6      37.4
2003     400.7     112.8      247.8      40.1
2004     428.7     120.7      265.1      42.9
2005     458.7     129.1      283.7      45.9
2006     490.8     138.2      303.6      49.1
2007     525.2     147.9      324.8      52.5
2008     562.0     158.2      347.6      56.2
2009     601.3     169.3      371.9      60.1
2010     643.4     181.1      397.9      64.3
2011     688.4     193.8      425.8      68.8
2012     736.6     207.4      455.6      73.7
2013     788.2     221.9      487.5      78.8
2014     843.3     237.4      521.6      84.3
2015     902.4     254.0      558.1      90.2



ANNEX 6.1
Page 6 of 11
ANGOLA: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF TIHE REHABILITATION OF THE LINES AND SUBSTATIONS OF THE
CENTRAL SYSTEM
HUAMBO - LOMAUM STRETCH
THERMAL NEEDS, GWh      COST OF
DEMAND ------    -------------------   DIFF    INVEST   BENEFIT        NET
YEAR     CWh     NO REHAB      REHAB    DIFF    Mn US$    Mn USS    Mn USS    Mn USS
1992      52.0      52.0        6.6      45.4       2.7        0.6       0.0       -0.6
1993      SG.3      56.3        8.5      47.9       2.9        4.0       0.0       -4.0
1994      61.0      61.0       10.4      50.6       3.0        5.0       0.0       -5.0
1995      66.1      66.1       12.5      53.5       3.2        2.0       3.2        1.2
1996      72.9      72.9       15.4      57.5       3.4        1.0       3.4        2.4
1997      80.5      80.5       18.6      61.9        3.7       0.0       3.7        3.7
1998      88.9      88.9       22.1      66.7       4.0        0.0       4.0        4.0
1999      98.1      98.1       26.0      72.1       4.3        0.0       4.3        4.3
2000     108.3     108.3       30.3      78.0        4.7       0.0       4.7        4.7
2001     115.9     115.9       33.5      82.4        4.9       0.0       4.9        4.9
2002     124.0     124.0       36.9      87.1        5.2       0.0        5.2       5.2
2003     132.7     132.7       40.5      92.2        5.5       0.0       5.5        5.5
2004     142.0     142.0       44.4      97.6        5.9       0.0        5.9       5.9
2005     1S1.9     151.9       51.6     100.3        6.0       0.0       6.0        6.0
2006     162.6     162.6       62.3     100.3        6.0       0.0       6.0        6.0
2007     173.9     173.9       73.6     100.3        6.0       0.0       6.0        6.0
2008     186.1     186.1       85.8     100.3        6.0       0.0       6.0        6.0
2009     199.2     199.2       98.9     100.3        6.0       0.0        6.0       6.0
2010     213.1     213.1      112.8     100.3        6.0       0.0       6.0        6.0
2011     228.0     228.0      127.7     100.3        6.0       0.0        6.0       6.0
2012     244.0     244.0      143.7     100.3        6.0       0.0        6.0       6.0
2013     261.0     261.0      160.7     100.3        6.0       0.0        6.0       6.0
2014     279.3     279.3      179.0     100.3        6.0       3.0        6.0       6.0
2015     298e9     298.9      198.6     100.3        6.0       0.0        6.0       6.0
Assumed cost of thermal generation: 0.06 US$/kWh
NPV-      21.4 Mn US$ (Discount Rate of 10 %)
IRR       0.30



ANNEX 6.1
Page 7oF 11
ANGOLAs POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THI REHABILITATION OF THE LINES AND SUBSTATIONS OF
THE CENTRAL SYSTEM
LOMAUN - QUILEVA STRETCH
THERMAL NEEDS, OWh       COST OF
DEMAND ---------------------------   DIFF          INVEST   BENEFIT      NET
YEAR     GWh     NO REHAB      REHAB    DIFF    Mn US$    Mn U8$    Mn US$    Mn US$
1992     105.0      64.0       10.7      53.3        3.2       0.4        0.0      -0.4
1993     113.7      72.7       14.4      58.4        3.5       2.3        0.0      -2.3
1994     123.2      82.2       18.3      63.8        3.8       2.8        0.0      -2.8
1995     133.4      92.4       22.6      69.8        4.2       1.1        4.2       3.1
1996     147.2     106.2       28.4      77.8        4.7       0.5        4.7       4.2
1997     162.6     121.6       34.9      86.7        5.2       0.0        5.2       5.2
1998     179.5     138.5       42.0      96.5        5.8       0.0        5.8       5.8
1999     198.1     157.1       49.8     107.3        6.4       0.0        6.4       6.4
2000     218.7      177.7      58.5     119.3        7.2       0.0        7.2       7.2
2001     234.0      193.0      64.9     128.1        7.7       0.0        7.7       7.7
2002     250.4     209.4       71.8     137.6        8.3       0.0        8.3       8.3
2003     268.0     227.0       79.1     147.8        8.9       0.0        8.9       8.9
2004     286.7     245.7       87.0     158.7        9.5       0.0        9.5       9.5
2005     306.8     265.8      103.1     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2006     328.3     287.3      124.6     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2007     351.2     310.2      147.5     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.3       9.8
2008     375.8     334.8      172.1     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2009     402.1     361.1      198.4     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2010     430.3     389.3      226.6     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2011     460.4     419.4      256.7     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2012     492.6     451.6      288.9     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2013     527.1     486.1      323.4     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2014     564.0      523.0     360.3     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
2015     603.5      562.5     399.8     162.7        9.8       0.0        9.8       9.8
Assumed coat of thermal generation: 0.06 US$/kWh
NPV-      42.1 Mn US$ (Discount Rate of 10 %)
IRRe      0.°0



ANNEX 6.1
Page 8 of 11
BASIC DATA
1.           NORTHERN SYSTEM
1.1         Demand of Luanda:
Actual. 1991: 105 MW, 590 Gwh.
Assumed rates of growth: 1990 - 1995 : 8.4 percent
1995 - 2000 : 10.4 percent
2000 - ... : 7.0 percent
Taken from ESMAP's report No. 142/91 "Angola Power Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance'.
Estimated 1992: 1.084 (590) = 640 GWh
Estimated energy for priority loads, supplied separately from a gas turbine:
50 Gwh (14 MW average power during five months of the year).
1.2          SUDS
Hy"
Plant                Installed              Average
Capacity               Annual                 Remarks
MW                  Production
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _G W h_   _  _ _  _  _  _  _
Mabubas                       17.8                    55
Cambambe                     180.0                  1250
Capanda                      260.0                  2170
Capanda                     (520.0)                 (2400)          Second Stage
Plant                        Installed
Capacity                        Fuel
Luanda G.T.1                               26                            Jet B
Luanda G.T.2                               30                            Jet B
Luanda G.T. 3                              50                            Jet B
Assumed fuel costs: 0.06   US$ / kWh



ANNEX 6.1
Page  9 'i 11
1.3          Reliability
In 1991, the total outage time due to faults of the Cambambe-Luanda Line I1 (in service after
a provisional rehabilitation) was 512 hours.
2.           CENTRAL SYSTEM
2.1          Demand
,Huambo,
Actual 1991: 7.5 MW peak, 3.4 GWh per month. (Load factor of 0.62).
Lob ito-Btengu e 
Actual 1991: 16.5 MW peak
Same load factor as for Huambo was assumed.
Other Areas
Estimated by ENE to be about 10% of system's demand. Same load factor as for Huambo
was assumed.
SYj
System Peak (1991)       7.5 + 16.5   = 26.7 MW
0.9
Annual Energy (1991) = 0.62 x 8.76 x 26.7 = 145 GWh
Assumed Rates of Growth:   1990 - 1995 : 8.3 percent
1995 - 2000 : 10.4 percent
2000 - ...   : 7.0 percent
Estimated 1992: 1.083 x 145 = 157 GWh
Seasonal distribution of load: It was assumed that load would be distributed among the dry
and wet seasons in proportion of their duration:
Dry (June -October): 42%
Rainy           : 58%
2.2          Supl
Hyr
Plant                        Installed                      Average
Capacity                       Annual
MW                          Production
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   G W h
Biopio                                     14.4                            41
Lomaum                                     65                            263



ANNEX 6.1
Page 10 of 11
In 1991 the production from Biopio was as follows:
Dry Season (June - October)        : 6.7 GWh (16%)
Rainy Season (January-May, Nov-December) : 34.7 GWh (84%)
This proportion for dry season/rainy season production was used for both for Biopio and
Lomaum.
Also it was supposed that hydro production would be allocated among the areas in proportion;
of demand. The following coefficients result:
COEFFICIENT OF SYSTEM LOAD
DISTRIBUTION BY AREA AND SEASON
AREA                           TOTAL
SEASON        HUAMBO-LOMAUM    LOMAUM-QUILEVA
DRY                 0.14                  0.28                 0.42
WET                 0.19                  0.39                 0.58
TOTAL                0.33                  0.67                  1.00
COEFFICIENT OF HYDRO GENERATION
ALLOCATION BY AREA AND SEASON
AREA                              TOTAL
SEASON           HUAMBO-LOMAUM    LOMAUM-QUILEVA
DRY                    0.05                   0.11                    0.16
WET                    0.28                   0.56                    0.84
TOTAL                   0.33                    0.67                   1.00



ANNEX 6.1
Page 1lof I1
ALLOCATION OF TOTAL HYDRO PRODUCTION. GWh
SEASON                               AREA                                TOTAL
HUAMBO-LOMAUM   LOMAUM-QUILEVA
DRY                      15.2                    33.4                    48.6
WET                      85.1                   170.3                   255.4
TOTAL                    100.3                   203.7                   304.0
BIOPIO ALONE
DRY: 6.6 GWh               WET: 34.4 GWh
TOTAL: 41 GWh
Thermal
Both main areas have diesel and gas turbines. An uniform fuel cost for thermal generation of
.06 US$/KWh was assumed.
.3 Transmission
The characteristics and situation of the lines in the stretches Huambo-Lomaum and Lomaum-
Quileva are as follows:
Lent         Number of towers destroyed
Huambo-Lomaum        167 km (60%)              42 (70%)
Lomaum-Quileva       114 kn (40%)              18 (30%)
The two factors, length and number of towers to be rebuilt were supposed to have the same
weight in terms of their impact on the rehabilitation cost. Therefore, the total cost was allocated in the
proportion 0.65/0.35 to the two stretches.
a:Bsicdata.ab/4-16-92



ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
ANGOLA
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
(ESMAP), "Angola: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", Report No. 7408-
ANG, May 1989.
2.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/ Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
(ESMAP), "Angola Power Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance", Report No.
142/91, October 1991.
3.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Facilities: Capanda
Hydroelectric Proiect", Report prepared by Messrs. C.F. da Silva and C.A. da Cruz,
consultants (english and portuguese version), October 1991.
4.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Environmental Impacts of Power-Related and Energy Related
gerations", Report prepared by Ms. M. Kronen, consultant, October 1991.
5.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Thermoelectric Generation and Transmission Lines in the
Angolan Electric Systems", Report prepared by Mr. Antonio Corsini, consultant,
October 1991.
6.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Present Situation of the Electric System of Angola. Least-
Cost Expansion Plan of the Northern System, Expansion Plans of the Central and
Southern Sy    ", Report prepared by Mr. Carlos Madureira, consultant, October
1991.
7.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Economic and Financial Analysis of Angola's Electric Power
Sector", Report prepared by Mr. Lorenzo Rivera, consultant, October 1991.
8.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Administrative and Financial Activities of Angola's Major
Electric Power Utilities", Report prepared by Mr. Pietro Bernardin, consultant,
October 1991.
9.    Joint UNDP/World Bank/Bilateral Aid Energy Sector Management Assistance
Programme (ESMAP), "Distribution Sector Rehabilitation and Extension of the
Electric System in the Luanda-Lobito-Benguela Provinces", Report prepared by
Messrs. G. Branbilla and M. Scarfi, consultants, October 1991.
10.   INTERNEL, "Reestruturacao do Sector Electrico Angolano. Relatorio de
Diagnostico", July 1991.



ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 2
11.   Empresa Nacional de Electricidade, 'Esuto Organico, Decree NO. 28/90 of
December 8. 1990". Diario da Republica, la serie, No. 31, 26 de Julho de 1991.
12.   Secretaria de Estado da Energia e Aguas (SEEA), "Esatt Organico", June 1991.
13.   Secretario de Estado da Energia e Aguas (SEEA), "Programa de Reabilitacao de
Infrastucturas", Luanda, October 1991.
14.   Banque Africaine de Developpement, RaDDort d'Evaluation Proiet Electricitd 1, Report
ANG/PEEH/91/01, September 1991.
15.   Antonio Coimbra (consultant), Management and Financial Situation of SONEFE and
ENE", December 1991.



IERD 23770
GABON                                      EYA                                   ANGOLA=I
\tgCONGOJ '          BURLINDIt7    '     <HYDROELECTRIC  FACILITIES AND
CAIN8DW                                 TANZANIA             HIGH VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION NETWORK
Luond Ma LAWI                                                                     220kv & 150kV TRANSMISSION UNES
; | RJ1._ e  aFUTURE 220kV TRANSMISSION LINES
i, . ANGOLA                                                              I_}-< 2 Sj7 100kV & 60kV TRANSMISSION UNES
o .                       ZAMBIA               dy                              -      DAMS
NAMIBIA             ZIMBABWE0   SELECTED TOWNS                                   | @ -  RAILROADS
,   | BOISWANA                         ® /    < :]   (3   PROVINCE CAPITALS  +    AIRPORTS
CONGO                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL            i   PORTS
e.r                                                       -    MAIN ROADS                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CAIlI')A                                                          S |  AOS    0       100            200            300
C^BINQA t3 1 +   /   /           \        ~~                ~       ~      ~       ~     ~       ~~~~~~ I   I  I  I
KIL0mET1BS 0     100      200       100      400       500
*   CONGO (3   > ,/       ~~~~Quimbele    _
ZAIPr    +     1  ti;°  20                                                                 °                    ....24°
.. Toboc°fz ......4 uiG / \ZAIRE 
S.UAN                                                                                    )        This map ho been f.epomd 8-
M1        'DITBU       ''t} xOuno                                       ,                 by Thes Worldo Bnkl sm: staff
L U A        N        D         A     )     5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JD            0, .d5,   uhbondris orth
LUANDA        b UNOT                     MALN                           6    J 
OCEAiN \    EA4
12 4BB2->                                                                                                                       2°
*12                                 16                                     200                                   24IC   i 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1992 >d 4 _DX 
<~~~~~~~~AAAD                                                                                :% of Th Wod BNGUE  G °  p
>  X k JrJ m l E    \           1      > \          < N _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO  Nindo  'oAMI
ANANIIBE     Dl                A    CssniAM                           C) 
;    brlo                    SUL HUIL                                     DA~  L                      To Lubumbajshi
OC NAMIB         +>                   HUAM                                WENA( 
:12                                                     {      F9                      
1BIA                                                                                         < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
HUILA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~API Cu°a9l



