Page  1
September 27, 1994
Empresa Nacional de Electricidade
Predio Geominas 6o e 7o: Andares
P.O. Box 772
Luanda, Republic of Angola
CC:
H.E. Jose Pedro de Morais Jr. 
Ministro
Ministerio do Plano 
Largo Palacio do Povo 
P.O. Box 1205,
Luanda, Republic of Angola
H.E. Joao Moreira Pinto Saraiva
Secretaria de Estado da Energia e Aguas
Largo Palacio do Povo
P.O. Box 1205
Luanda, Republic of Angola
Dear Sir:
Re:
Credit No. 2385 ANG (Power Sector Rehabilitation Project)
Amendment to ENE Proiect Agreement
We refer to the ENE Project Agreement (the Agreement) in respect of the 
Power Sector Rehabilitation Project entered into between the Empresa Nacional de 
Electricidade and the International Development Association (the Association) on 
July 20, 1992.
The Association has considered the request to amend the Agreement contained 
in your letter to the Association dated September 20, 1994, and we are pleased to 
inform you that we agree that the Agreement should be amended in accordance with 
such request.
We hereby amend the Agreement in the following manner:
In the Schedule, Section I, Part C, a new paragraph 3 is inserted:
"Items or groups of items consisting mainly of proprietary spares, 
costing or e stimated to cost not more than $200,000 per contract, and up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured by 
direct contracting in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association."
If you agree with this amendment, please sign and date the enclosed 
duplicate original of this letter at the form of countersignature below, and 
return it to us for our records. The amendment shall become effective on that 
date of countersignature by you.
Because of their interest in this matter, we are copying this letter to the 
Borrower.
Yours sincerely,
Ulrich Thumm
Acting Director
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Confirmed:
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
Page  2
By: 
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 20, 1994
