Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2385 ANG
(Power Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDADE
Dated July 20, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2385 ANG
ENE PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDADE (ENE).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Angola (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,500,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that ENE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be transferred to ENE on a grant basis; and
      WHEREAS ENE, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. ENE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B and C of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts B and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. ENE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ENE Project Agreement and Parts B and C 
of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) ENE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts B and C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   ENE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and C of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ENE 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENE
      Section 3.01. ENE shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. ENE shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and power utility practices.
      Section 3.03. ENE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. ENE shall take all appropriate actions to collect electricity 
bills from all customers including public and private sector customers; such actions 
shall include systematic disconnection of said customers with over 60 days of arrears.
      Section 3.05. ENE shall carry out and submit to the Association not later than 
June 30, 1994, an inventory and valuation of its assets.
      Section 3.06. ENE shall implement Parts B and C of the Project through the 
project implementation unit established in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.07. (a) ENE shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later 
than 24 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project. This review shall cover, among other things: (i) the pricing 
of electricity; (ii) the improvements in management, accounting and commercial 
operations in ENE; (iii) the financial performance of ENE; (iv) the effectiveness of 
Page  3
the technical assistance provided to date; and (v) the overall implementation of ENE's 
rehabilitation program.
      (b)   Based on such review, ENE shall promptly prepare an action program, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and 
shall implement such action program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) ENE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)   ENE shall:
            (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than (9) nine months after the end of fiscal year 1992 
and 1993, and (6) six months after the end of each such year 
thereafter: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ENE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
           (ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
 
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ENE of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or fascimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      For ENE:
            Empresa Nacional de Electricidade - ENE
            Predio Geominas 6o e 7o: Andares
            C.P. 772 - Luanda
                                           Telex:
                                           3170 ENE AN
                                           Facsimile:
                                           323382, 322839,
                                           392764
                                           Telephone:
                                           323568, 323382,
                                           321499, 330161
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ENE, or by ENE 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the Director 
General shall designate in writing, and ENE shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
                         EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDADE
                         By /s/ Afonso van Dunem
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Page  5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$130,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,490,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 or of Schedule 5 
to the Development Credit Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
      In order to assist ENE in carrying out the Project, ENE shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  6
