Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
May 6, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6552 
(The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
GW-Economic Governance Reform Grant III (EGRG 3) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Country 
Guinea-Bissau 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Operation ID 
P123685 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
May 9, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 16, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Guinea-Bissau is one of the smallest and poorest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. 
With an 
estimated 1.54 million inhabitants, the population is young
—about 42 percent is under 14 years 
of age—and is now growing at an average rate of 2.2 percent per year.  Annual Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) per capita is estimated at US$550.  The economy is highly vulnerable to weather 
fluctuations: agriculture represented about 50 percent of GDP in 2009 and remains the main 
source of employment in rural areas.  Cashew is the main cash crop (representing 98 percent of 
exports) and is strongly linked to other sectors, such as labor-intensive cashew processing, trade 
and transportation. 
The proposed EGRG III focuses on two of the four pillars of the NPRSP.
 
The first of these 
pillars—strengthening governance, improving the efficiency of public administration and 
establishing macroeconomic stability—aims at consolidating the development and 
implementation of a modern legal and organizational framework for public financial 
management (PFM) that is consistent with West African Economic and Monetary Union 
(WAEMU) standards. The second pillar—promoting economic growth and job creation—
focuses on improving the business climate to foster more robust private sector development 
(PSD).  The authorities are finalizing the preparation of its successor, the NPRSP II, which they 
have tentatively scheduled to complete in the spring of 2011 and present at a donors’ roundtable 
later in the year.
 
The proposed grant is also grounded in the International Development Agency 
(IDA) assistance strategy described in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Guinea-Bissau 
discussed by the Board on June 15, 2009.   
Page  2
II. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The main development objectives of the proposed grant are: (i) to promote efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in the use of public resources through improved public financial 
management (PFM); and (ii) to improve specific aspects of the investment climate, including 
streamlined procedures for 
business
 registration and licensing, enhanced legal and taxation 
frameworks to foster private investment and new regulation to support environmental 
sustainability in public and private investment projects. The development objectives are 
consistent with pillars 1 (good governance, macroeconomic stability, public administration 
reform), and 2 (private sector-
led growth) of the government’s national development program 
outlined in its poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP). A more immediate objective is to protect 
basic service delivery, which is threatened by the budgetary support shortfall currently facing the 
government. 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Guinea-Bissau has made considerable progress in realigning its macroeconomic policy with its 
long-term development goals by implementing a focused agenda of complementary reforms 
supported by the two previous EGRGs. The government has considerably strengthened 
macroeconomic management in recent years, and in May 2010 the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) approved a 3-year arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF) for 2010-2013 
and has taken decisive steps in reforming its public financial management system and improving 
the country investment climate. Moreover, in spite of the difficult political climate the authorities 
have made progress in the PFM and PSD areas.  The implementation of reforms in these areas 
and the overall design of the reform program have built on analytical work and capacity-building 
activities supported by other IDA-funding instruments.  
The proposed operation is designed to assist the Government of Guinea-Bissau in completing the 
first steps in a long term process of financial and management reform that was initiated in 2009. 
Recognizing the challenges posed by a difficult economic and political context and a fragile 
institutional environment, the project will support the completion of significant reforms in key 
areas of public administration and private sector development. While modest in their 
development objectives, such improvements will be instrumental in enabling the government to 
meet the larger objectives of reducing poverty and achieving levels of economic growth 
comparable to those of other countries in the region. 
The proposed EGRG III is intended to serve as a bridge operation while the NPRSP II is 
finalized and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in support of the NPRSP II is 
developed. With recent cuts in budget assistance by several development partners, related to 
internal political developments, financial assistance for the 2011 budget under the proposed 
EGRG III would be critical, limiting the need for further downward fiscal adjustments, 
preventing an economically costly compression of the public investment program, and allowing 
policymakers to focus their attention on finalizing and launching their new medium-term agenda. 
 
Page  3
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
6.5 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total 6.5 
 
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the administration of credit. The existing 
institutional structure for the NPRSP process will be used to implement and monitor the policy 
reforms supported by the proposed development policy operation.  The Ministry of Finance and 
the Ministry of Economy will assume overall responsibility for coordinating the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the policy matrix.  They will be ultimately responsible for reporting 
progress and coordinating actions among other concerned Ministries and agencies.  The Council 
of Ministers will provide overall guidance for the budget support program.  Periodic stakeholder 
consultations included in the implementation of the ISN will serve to provide additional 
feedback on the impact of the proposed operation.  
VI. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
(a) Shortfalls in external budget support flows. The 2010 shortfall, about 3.2 percent of GDP, 
prompted a dramatic adjustment in government investment and purchases of goods and 
services. Further tightening would put the provision of key social services at risk and 
could potentially undermine progress in public financial management observed over the 
last two years. The proposed grant will partially fill the financing gap and obviate further 
budget cuts. 
(b) Other external shocks. The economy, being poorly diversified, is susceptible to external 
shocks. In particular, recent increases in food prices could have serious impacts on 
domestic inflation, government accounts and external balances. The scope for fiscal 
mitigation of external shocks from internal resources alone is sharply limited, and would 
require donor support. In addition, despite the significant improvement in the debt profile 
produced by Guinea-
Bissau’s achievement of the HIPC completion point, the risk of 
external debt distress is still considerable and shocks to exports or GDP could make debt 
to breach threshold levels.  The grant supports reforms in public financial management, 
debt management and related areas, that would help strengthen the country’s ability to 
attract external support to help cope with shocks. 
(c) Political risks.  Political instability remains a persistent risk, particularly if tangible 
benefits from the reform program do not swiftly become apparent to the population, or if 
the costs of reform to influential constituencies become too high. To mitigate these risks 
continued support from the international community to the government’s economic 
reform agenda will remain critical. 
Page  4
(d)  Implementation capacity.  Guinea-
Bissau’s technical and institutional capacity to 
implement the reforms supported by the EGRG III is low.  To address this risk in the 
short term the Bank and other partners have made available a combination of capacity 
building and technical support. 
 
VII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
From a qualitative perspective, the proposed operation is expected to have positive direct impacts 
on poverty and social indicators.  Given the shortfall in budget support flows, the proposed 
operation would obviate the need for spending cuts that could place the provision of basic social 
services at risk, and such cuts would disproportionately affect the poor, who frequently depend 
on these services to a disproportionate degree.   
The indirect poverty and social impact of the reforms supported by the operation are also 
expected to be positive.  To the extent that these initiatives will favor the broadening of the fiscal 
space for increasing public investment, as well as enhancing efficiency in the use of public 
resources, the operation should have a positive indirect impact on the government’s ability to 
increase the quality and accessibility of public infrastructure and social services.  Incidence 
analysis shows that low-income groups have lower rates of access to educational, health, energy, 
water and sanitation services, yet low-income groups are the primary users of these services. 
Improvements in the coverage and quality of public services would therefore disproportionately 
benefit the poor. 
Environment Aspects  
The specific actions supported under the proposed EGRG III are likely to have significant 
positive effects on the country's environment, forests, fisheries or other natural resources. The 
first plank of this operation, governance, is not expected to have a meaningful effect on Guinea-
Bissau’s environment due to the primarily administrative nature of the reform program, (public 
financial management, civil service reform and decentralization, monitoring and evaluation 
systems, improved health care and social protection). The reforms under the second plank, 
private sector development, specifically the adoption of the law of environmental impact law, are 
expected to have positive impacts on the environment. 
 
Page  5
VIII. Contact 
point: 
 
World Bank: 
 
Contact: Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5075 
Email: fblanco@worldbank.org 
 
 
Borrower: 
 
Contact:  
H. E. Madame 
Helena Nosoline Embaló 
Title:  
Minister of Economy, Planning and Regional Integration 
Address: 
Av. Amílcar Cabral, 37 
 
Caixa Postal No. 6 
 
Bissau, República da Guiné-Bissau 
Tel:  
+245-320-48-46 
 
IX. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
