Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
12/17/2010 
Report No.: 
AB6233 
 
Operation Name 
Guinea-Bissau 
–
Economic Governance Reform Grant 
(EGRG III) 
Region 
Africa 
Country 
Guinea-Bissau 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); General public 
administration sector (50%) 
Operation ID 
P123685 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Operation 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
December 16, 2010 
Estimated Date of Appraisal  
April 7, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 26, 2011 
Concept Review Decision 
Following the virtual concept review, the decision was taken 
to proceed with the preparation of the operation (tbc). 
 
Other Decision  
Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no 
other decisions are added
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Guinea-Bissau is one of the smallest and poorest African countries. With an estimated 
1.54 million inhabitants, the population is young—about 42 percent is under 14 years of 
age-and has been growing at an average rate of 2.2 percent in recent years. Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) per capita is estimated at US$550.  The economy is highly 
vulnerable to weather fluctuations; agriculture represented about 50 percent of GDP in 
2009 and remains the main source of employment in rural areas. Cashew is the main cash 
crop (representing 98 percent of exports), with linkages to other sectors, such as labor 
intensive cashew processing, trade and transportation. 
Guinea Bissau is a country with significant, but largely unfulfilled development potential. 
The country has good agricultural, mining and even tourism potential, but political 
instability, following the brief 1998 conflict, has proven to be a severe barrier to 
economic development.  Macroeconomic management over the last decade was highly 
uneven and growth was anemic. Attempts at stabilization in the early years of the 2000s 
faltered in the wake of ongoing political instability and severe structural weaknesses in 
fiscal management.  Average GDP growth over the period 1999-2007 stood at only about 
1
percent per year. 
Page  2
2
The proposed EGRG III supports the implementation of reform policies aligned with 
Guinea-Bissau first NPRSP.  The proposed EGRG III, like the previous DPOs, focuses 
on two of the four pillars of the NPRSP.  One of these pillars
—strengthening governance, 
public administration and establishing macroeconomic stability—aims at consolidating 
the development and operation of a modern legal and organizational framework for 
public financial management (PFM) that is consistent with WAEMU standards.  The 
second of these pillars—promoting economic growth and job creation—focuses on 
improving the business climate to foster more robust private sector development (PSD).  
The authorities are finalizing the preparation of the successor NPRSP, which they have 
tentatively scheduled to issue in the spring of 2011 and present at a donors roundtable 
later in the year.  The proposed grant is also grounded in the strategy for IDA’s assistance 
described in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Guinea-Bissau discussed by the Board 
on June 15, 2009.  As envisaged in the ISN, the two previous EGRG operations were 
stepping stones on the country’s path to the HIPC completion point in December 2010.  
The proposed EGRG III is intended to serve as a bridge operation as NPRSP II is 
finalized and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in support of NPRSP II is 
developed. 
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
 
The main development objectives of the proposed grant are to: (i) promote efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in the use of public resources through improved public 
financial management (PFM); and (ii) improve specific aspects of the investment climate, 
including streamlined procedures for business registration and targeted reforms of the 
legal framework for private investments. The development objectives are consistent with 
pillars 1 (good governance, macroeconomic stability, public administration reform), and 
2
(private sector-led growth) of the government’s national development program outlined 
in its PRSP. An immediate objective is to protect basic service delivery that is under risk 
due to the budget support shortfall faced by the government. 
III. Preliminary 
Description 
 
The proposed EGRG III supports follow up reform measures to consolidate the 
improvements in PFM and PSD that has been obtained since 2008 and that were 
supported by the first and second EGRGs.  In addition, the proposed DPO will support 
government actions in tax collection, control of personal expenditures and rationalization 
of government’s human resource management and debt management aimed at 
consolidating the fiscal adjustment that 9-10that are deemed essential for its successful 
implementation.   
 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
From a qualitative perspective, the proposed operation is expected to have positive direct 
impacts on poverty and social indicators.  Given the shortfall in budget support flows, the 
proposed operation would obviate the need for spending cuts that could place the 
provision of basic social services at risk, and such cuts would disproportionately affect 
the poor, who frequently depend on these services to a disproportionate degree.  The 
Page  3
3
measures supported by the proposed EGRG II are also expected to have a positive 
indirect impact on poverty reduction, mainly through increased overall growth and rising 
employment, though these growth effects may be strongly tempered by the worsening 
Euro Zone sovereign crisis. 
The indirect poverty and social impact of the reforms supported by the operation are also 
expected to be positive.  To the extent that these initiatives will favor the broadening of 
the fiscal space for increasing public investment, as well as enhancing efficiency in the 
use of public resources, the operation should have a positive indirect impact on the 
government’s ability to increase the quality and accessibility of public infrastructure and 
social services.  Incidence analysis shows that low-income groups have lower rates of 
access to educational, health, energy, water and sanitation services, yet low-income 
groups are the primary users of these services. Improvements in the coverage and quality 
of public services would therefore disproportionately benefit the poor. 
Environment Aspects  
The specific actions supported under the proposed EGRG III are not likely to have 
significant positive or negative effects on the country's environment, forests, fisheries or 
other natural resources.  The first plank of this operation, governance, is not expected to 
have a meaningful effect on Guinea-Bissau’s environment due to the primarily 
administrative nature of the reform program, (public financial management, civil service 
reform and decentralization, monitoring and evaluation systems, improved health care 
and social protection).  Additionally, the reforms under the second plank, private sector 
development, are not expected to have any appreciable negative effect on the 
environment. 
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
6 
Total 6 
 
VI. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5075 
Fax:  
Email: fblanco@worldbank.org 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Jose Carlos Casimiro 
 
Title: 
General Treasury Director at the Ministry of Finance 
 
Tel: 245 
666668  
 
Email: jocava@hotmail.gov   
Page  4
4
VII. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
