                                                                                                                     62816
                                                                                                   OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                       IDA/SD2011-0020
                                                                                                                   June 22, 2011




                                                                            Closing Date: Thursday, June 23, 2011

FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                      EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' MEETING - JUNE 21, 2011

                                                       Guinea-Bissau

                                 Third Economic Governance Reform Grant

                                                Summary of Discussion




1.     Attached is the Summary of Discussion on the Third Economic Governance Reform
Grant for Guinea-Bissau considered at the meeting held on June 21, 2011.

2.     Comments on the Summary of Discussion may be directed to the Vice President and
Corporate Secretary by the close of business, June 23, 2011, after which the Summary of
Discussion will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank's Policy on Access to
Information.



Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.
                         Republic of Guinea-Bissau (GW)
              Third Economic Governance Reform Grant (EGRG III)

                           SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION

                                     June 21, 2011


     Executive Directors approved the Third Economic Governance Reform Grant for
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau in the amount of SDR 4 million (US$6.4 million
equivalent) on the terms set out in the President’s Memorandum (IDA/R2011-0185). Mr.
Solomon wished to be recorded as abstaining.
       Directors commended the authorities for the recent progress made in economic
stabilization, which helped to consolidate recent policy achievements in the wake of
Guinea-Bissau reaching the HIPC Completion Point. Directors noted the remaining
challenges to more rapid growth and effective poverty reduction, including strengthening
economic infrastructure, improving the business environment, and promoting activity in
such sectors as agriculture that strongly impact income generation and poverty reduction.
Finally, Directors acknowledged that high risks remain and encouraged the authorities
and donors to draw from the lessons of the 2011 WDR to focus on poverty reduction,
access to services and effective judicial systems.





This summary is not an approved record.
