Report No. PID10532
Project Name                     Ghana-Third Economic Reform Support...
Operation Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomics
Project ID                       GHPE50619
Borrower                         Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date this PID prepared           July 12, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May, 2001
Board Date                       July 26, 2001
COUNTRY BACKGROUND:
1. Ghana's poverty trends were favorable in the 1990s, with the percentage
of the population defined as poor falling from 52 percent in 1991-92 to just
under 40 percent in 1998-99. Such an improvement was made possible by
sustained economic growth accompanied by a broad improvement in social
indicators. Economic growth averaged 4.5 percent per year compared with a
sub-Saharan African annual average of 2.9 percent during the 1983-2000 period.
Growth has been broad-based with services, mining, and construction taking the
lead. In agriculture, which remains Ghana's dominant economic sector (40
percent of GDP), export activities such as cocoa and forestry expanded rapidly
in the 1990s.   Life expectancy increased from 55 to 58 years; primary school
enrollment rate rose from 72 percent to 79 percent; and the infant mortality
rate fell from 85 to 57 per 1,000 live births.
2. Ghana made initial progress in implementing structural reforms, starting
with the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which was launched in 1983. By the
early 1990s, the trade regime had been largely liberalized, the exchange rate
was market-determined, macroeconomic imbalance had been narrowed, the majority
of price and distribution controls had been lifted and domestic inflation had
fallen to 10 percent.
3. In the 1990s, structural reform was uneven. During this period, several
policy reversals took place and progress on macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms were interrupted by episodes of weak budgetary management
associated with the electoral cycle. By mid-1999, Ghana had made significant
progress in restoring macroeconomic stability -inflation had fallen to below
10 percent and real interest rates were declining from high levels. However,
during the latter half of the year the economy was hit by a major terms of
trade shock that intensified in 2000. As cocoa prices plunged to 27-year lows
and oil prices tripled in 1999-2000, Ghana's suffered a terms of trade loss
amounting to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1999 and 6.9 percent of GDP in 2000.     The
terms of trade shock led to a sharp exchange rate depreciation in the latter
part of 1999, and inflation rose quickly from 14 percent in 1999 to 40.5
percent in 2000.
4. The Government responded in early 2000 by tightening budgetary policy,
but substantial expenditure overruns during the second half of the year and
delays in privatizing state enterprises led to increased government borrowing.
The overall result was a vicious circle of rising domestic debt and high
interest costs leading to larger fiscal deficits. In total, budgetary
interest payments are projected to reach in 2001 a level nearly equal to the



overall fiscal deficit (9.6 percent).
5. Financial imbalances were further aggravated by Government's decision to
delay the adjustment of petroleum products and electricity rates in response
to the exchange rate depreciation and the increase in world prices. Taken
together the operating losses of the four major public enterprises
(Electricity of Ghana, Volta River Authority, Ghana Water Corporation and Tema
Oil Refinery TOR amounted to 7 percent of GDP in 2000. These translated in an
accumulation of large debts, especially from the Tema Oil Refinery, to the
banking sector. Externally, the domestic financial imbalances and the terms
of trade losses were reflected in balance of payments difficulties. Capital
inflows were insufficient to cover the current account deficit, and external
reserves fell to 0.8 months of imports by end-2000.
OBJECTIVES:
6. When the new Government took office in early 2001, it brought with it a
new vision of Ghana. The economic philosophy of the new Government as set out
in the President's "State of the Nation" address to Parliament, emphasizes the
Party's commitment to democracy and the rule of law, "zero tolerance for
corruption" along with transparent and well-managed public expenditures. The
Government also pledged to "tackle the huge budget deficit with the aim of
balancing the budget by the end of its first term in office" and to create a
"golden age of business" noting that "the partnership of the private sector
with the public sector is at the heart of our national strategy" as well as
the Party's goal that "Ghana become a leading agro-industrial country in
Africa by the year 2010". A strong commitment to creating equal access to
education, tackling infectious diseases, especially HIV/AIDS, was also
underscored. Finally, the Party's long-held commitment to decentralization
and to strengthening democratic institutions at the local level was
reiterated.
7. The proposed credit is designed to support the substantial and
revitalized economic reform program that was launched by the new Government.
The main elements of the reform program include: (i) tightening fiscal policy
and expenditure management, including through better governance; (ii) reducing
the government domestic and foreign debt; (iii) eliminating losses in the
operations of key parastatals; (iv) restructuring government functions; (v)
promoting private sector development; and (vi) increasing human development
and poverty reduction, including strengthening the battle against endemic and
infectious diseases.
8. The proposed credit will also support the development of the
Government's emerging agenda of reforms for accelerated growth and poverty
reduction. The new Government has launched a participatory process of
consultations with civil society to define a medium-term reform program aimed
at accelerating growth and poverty reduction. This process underlies the on-
going preparation of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy.
FINANCING
9. In spite of the considerable fiscal and quasi-fiscal adjustment being
put forward, exceptional levels of external program assistance will be
required to finance the 2001 program. Financing requirements (grants and
medium- and long-term loans) would amount to US$1,160 million for 2001. Of
this total, some US$316 million would be provided by program assistance from
donors, including the proposed ERSO III. An additional US$241 million would
be needed to fill the residual fiscal financing gap. It is expected that it
would be covered by a non-concessional deferral of payments due in 2001 from
Paris Club creditors and comparable action from other non-multilateral
creditors.
-2-



IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
10. The credit will be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness.
Simplified disbursement procedures under adjustment credits will apply.
Disbursements will not be tied to any specific purchases. Once the Credit is
approved by the Board, the proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by IDA in
an account at Bank of Ghana at the request of the Borrower. The
administration of this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance.
SUSTAINABILITY AND POVERTY
11. The proposed Credit would allow the Government to: (i) restore
macroeconomic stability with less adverse impact on the poor than otherwise;
and (ii) reinforce the basis for growth and poverty reduction. In the short-
term, the proposed credit will help to phase over time the size of the
domestic adjustment that would otherwise be required to restore macroeconomic
stability, thereby minimizing the risk of a social backlash that may
compromise the continued implementation of the reform program under
formulation. Over the medium term, the targeted reduction in the stock of
domestic and foreign debt (including the potential debt relief from HIPC)
would result in a virtuous cycle of exchange rate stabilization, lower
inflation and lower interest rates. This would help stimulate private sector
growth and create the fiscal space needed for increasing expenditures for
poverty-reducing activities. Continued improvement in the share of producer
prices for cocoa farmers and the liberalization of export marketing will also
reduce poverty as cocoa earnings remain an important source of income for
about one million rural families.
12. By supporting the Government's efforts to arrest a further deterioration
in the macroeconomic environment, this credit will contribute to give the new
Government the room it needs to focus on the elaboration of its medium-term
reform agenda and to effectively engage in a meaningful consultative process
with stakeholders, including civil society and development partners.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS:
13. The proposed Credit is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impact. The environmental assessment category is C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
14. Contact Point
Task Manager
Rene Bonnel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 473 42 57
15. For information on other project related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Web:  http://www.Worldbank.org/infoshop
-3-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final operation.
The terms of trade loss due to cocoa is estimated by multiplying the GDP
share of cocoa exports by the decrease in the export price of cocoa and
similarly for the terms of trade loss due to oil.
- 4 -



