Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7471-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
OF SDR 87.7 MILLION (US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
June 29, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                Cedi (0)
US$1.00                       =7200 (May 31, 2001)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOG               Bank of Ghana
BPEMS             Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CG                Consultative Group
COCOBOD           Cocoa Board
DIC               Divestiture Implementation Committee
EC                Energy Commission
ECG               Electricity Company of Ghana
ERSO II           Second Economic Reform Support Operation
GCB               Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GLSS              Ghana Living Standard Survey
GPRS              Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
GWCL              Ghana Water Company Limited
HIPC              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA               International Development Association
IFC               International Finance Corporation
IMF               International Monetary Fund
LBC               Licensed Buying Company
LDP               Letter of Development Policy
MTEF              Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NIB               National Investment Bank
PRGF              Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PUFMARP           Public Financial Management Reform Program
PURC              Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
TOR               Tema Oil Refinery
VRA               Volta River Authority
Vice President                    Callisto Madavo
Country Director                  Peter Harrold
Technical Manager                 Charles P. Humphreys
Task Team Leaders                 Rene Bonnel/Rocio Castro
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Rocio Castro (Senior Economist, AFTM4),
Rene Bonnel (Lead Economist, AFTM4), Joel Maweni (Energy Specialist, AFTEG), Eka Vashakmadze
(Young Professional, AFTM4), Camille Nuamah (Economist, LAC) and K.G. Awunyo (Legal Counsel,
LEGAF). Afef Haddad (Research Analyst, AFTM4) provided operational support.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program   Summary ................................................................i
I. THE ECONOMY ................................................................1
A.   Background ................................................................                                          1
B.   Recent Economic Developments ................................................................3
II. GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ................................................................6
A.   Budgetary Policies ................................................................6
B.   Restructuring of Domestic and Foreign Debt .........................................................8
C.   Eliminating Losses of Public Energy and Utility Companies ..............                                ..................9
D.   Restructuring of Government Functions ............................................................... 10
E.   Promoting the Private Sector ...............................................................                       11
F.    Human Development and Poverty Reduction ....................................................... 15
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................................................                          16
III. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ............................................................... 16
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...............................................................                                    18
A.   Credit Rationale ............................................................... 18
B.   Specific Actions Supported by the Credit ............................................................. 19
C      Link to the CAS ............................................................... 21
D.  Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements ... 21
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH OTHER
DONORS ...............................................................                                              23
V. RECOMMENDATION ...............................................................                                           24
Annexes
A. Macroeconomic and structural adjustment policies, 2001-2002
B. Ghana at a Glance
C. Key Economic Indicators
D. Selected Social Indicators
E. External Financing Requirements
F. Status of Bank Operations
G. Impact Indicators
H. Timetable of Key Processing Events
I. Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Ghana
Amount:       SDR 87.7 million (US$110 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Description:   The proposed Credit would support the restoration of macroeconomic stability
and market confidence allowing the new Government to develop its agenda of
reform for accelerated growth and poverty reduction over the longer term
through a broad-based consultative process with the civil society and key
stakeholders. The policy reform program embraces:
* restoring macroeconomic stability and strict governance through the
following measures: (i) reducing the domestic and foreign debt burden by
curtailing the fiscal deficit and seeking debt relief under the enhanced
HIPC initiative; (ii) strengthening the management and control of public
expenditures; and (iii) eliminating the deficit of key public enterprises;
* reinvigorating the reform process in the area of budgetary management,
public enterprise divestiture, banking sector reform and cocoa export
marketing; and,
*  supporting the preparation and implementation of the Ghana Poverty
Reduction Strategy emerging in the context of a broad participatory
consultation process.
Benefits:     The proposed  Credit would  allow  the Government to: (i) restore
macroeconomic stability with less adverse impact on the poor than otherwise;
and (ii) reinforce the basis for growth and poverty reduction.  Market
confidence and growth would be restored by ensuring a sound macroeconomic
framework, improving governance and increasing efficiency in the allocation
of budgetary resources. At the same time, the credit would allow for phasing
of tough reforms and permitting consumption levels to be smoothed. Over the
medium term, the targeted reduction in the stock of domestic and foreign debt
(including the potential debt relief from HIPC) is expected to result in a
virtuous cycle of exchange rate stabilization, lower inflation and lower interest
rates. This would help stimulate private sector growth and create the fiscal
space needed for increasing expenditures for poverty-reducing activities.
Continued improvement in the share of producer prices for cocoa farmers and
the liberalization of export marketing will also reduce poverty as cocoa
earnings remain an important source of income for about one million rural
families.



ii
Risks:         The Government's reform program and this supporting credit are subject to
considerable risks and uncertainties. First, this is a new Government and the
political will to implement difficult decisions may dwindle, especially if visible
improvements are not rapidly achieved. In the first few months in office,
however, the Government has demonstrated its determination to reversing the
situation by taking decisive up front action; gathering public support by
making explicit its objectives to orient public expenditures to social priorities
and to target vulnerable groups; committing only to what it perceives as
politically " doable"; and launching a broad participatory process of dialogue
and consultations to prepare the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, which
would outline the agenda of reform over the medium-term. Second, capacity
constraints could delay implementation, especially given the staff turnover in
most public institutions resulting from the Government's emphasis to address
governance issues. To increase implementation capacity, the Government is
seeking to recruit new staff and attract Ghanaians living abroad and it is relying
on technical assistance in areas such as budgetary reform and privatization of
state enterprises where domestic capacity may be lacking. The third risk stems
from Ghana's vulnerability to terms of trade shocks that could create a balance
of payments crisis. This risk is substantially mitigated by the strong donor
support expressed in support of the program, the assistance that Ghana may
receive as part of the HIPC debt reduction, and the rebuilding of reserves over
the medium term.
Disbursement: The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche, upon effectiveness.
Map:           IBRD 23606



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Third Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO III) to the Republic of Ghana for
SDR 87.7 million, an amount equivalent to about US$110 million, on standard IDA
terms. The proposed Credit, to be disbursed in one-tranche, will assist in meeting
Ghana's exceptional financing requirements for the year 2001.
I. THE ECONOMY
A.  Background
2.   Adjustment Record in the 1990s. Ghana made initial progress in implementing
structural reforms, starting with the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which was
launched in 1983. By the early 1990s, the trade regime had been largely liberalized, the
exchange rate was market-determined', macroeconomic imbalance had been narrowed, the
majority of price and distribution controls had been lifted and domestic inflation had fallen to
10 percent.
3.  In the 1990s, structural reform was uneven. In 1992 the reform process was
interrupted by fiscal overspending and inflationary pressures. In 1995, the Government
launched a new fiscal program accompanied by important structural reforms, but large
fiscal slippage occurred again in 1996. During this period, several policy reversals took
place; in particular, the VAT was repealed amidst social unrest. In early 1998, the reform
program resumed. In the fiscal area, a VAT was successfully re-introduced and a
medium term expenditure framework was adopted with the preparation of the 1999
budget. Reforms were also advancing in the cocoa, energy and financial sectors, while a
program to overhaul the public sector was initiated (Box 1).
4.   Economic Outcome. Despite periodic lapses in structural adjustment, economic
growth averaged 4.5 percent per year compared with a sub-Saharan African annual
average of 2.9 percent during the 1983-2000 period. Growth has been broad-based with
services, mining, and construction taking the lead. In agriculture, which remains Ghana's
dominant economic sector (40 percent of GDP), export activities such as cocoa and
forestry expanded rapidly in the 1990s. On the demand side, growth has been led by a
strong export performance despite depressed international prices for Ghana's main
In April 1990, the spread between the bureau rate and the auction rate had narrowed to 8 percent.
At the time, the Bank of Ghana unified both rates and introduced a weekly wholesale auction
system.



2
commodities.2 Merchandise exports in dollar terms increased four times between 1985
and 1999 as a result of substantial volume increases in gold and timber while cocoa
exports began to gradually recover form a sharp downfall in the early 1980s.3 By 1992,
gold became Ghana's main export earner, taking the place historically held by cocoa.
While traditional primar comnmodities continue to dominate the export sector in Ghana,
non-traditional exports  have  increased  nearly  three-fold  since  1994  and  their
contribution to total merchandise exports earnings has gone up to nearly 20 percent from
just 1O percent in the early I 990s.
Box 1: Major Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms - 1983-2000
Exchange rate regime: Fully flexible exchange rate introduced (1992); liberalization of the current
account and capital inflows (1994).
Trade and investment policies. Tariff regime progressively lowered to current top rate of 20% and
simplified to 4 lines; majority of import and price controls relaxed (by 1986); trade in coffee and
domestic marketing of cocoa liberalized (1992); new investment code and free zone program enacted
(1995); and cocoa export trade partially opened to private firms (2001).
Privatization and reform of state-owned enterprises: Privatization of 255 SOEs (or parts of SOEs)
had been authorized by end-2000; state enterprise law enacted and performance contracting initiated
in 1992; accelerated divestiture program launched in 1995 targeting significant SOEs including Ghana
Ports and Harbours Authority, and Ashanti Goldfields.
Fiscal reforms: Civil service reforms (1987, 1995); Value Added Tax introduced; price subsidies on
agricultural inputs removed; independent utilities regulatory commission established (1998); Medium
Expenditure Framework introduced for budget (1999).
Decentralization: Creation of District Assemblies (local governments in 1988); District Assemblies
Common Fund established with statutory contribution of 5% of budgetary revenues.
Financial sector reforms: Private banks authorized to operate (1988); removal of credit controls and
liberalization of interest rates and bank charges (1990); sale of government shares in large state-
owned banks (1996); modern prudential regulations enacted (1992); and closure of three insolvent
banks.
5.   Poverty and Social Indicators.  In line with increases in real GDP per-capita
averaging 1.5 percent per year, the overall incidence of poverty has declined since the
mid-1980s. According to the fourth Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS4), the
incidence of poverty declined from 52 percent to just under 40 percent between 1992 and
1999. In the same period, extreme poverty declined from 36 to 27 percent. Poverty
reductions were, however, unevenly distributed reflecting the impact of both regional
growth patterns and government policies. The largest gains were concentrated in Greater
Accra (which accounts for the bulk of industrial and service activities) and the rural forest
2     Notably, world cocoa prices plummeted from $2,100 to $950 per ton between 1988 and 1993; after
a partial recovery they reached all time lows in 1999.
3     Ghana was the world's largest exporter of cocoa in the 1950s and 1960s with production levels
around 700,000 tons. Currently, production is around 400,000 tons.
Non-traditional exports include all exports except for cocoa beans, logs and lumber, and mining
products.



3
(where exports such as cocoa, gold and timber are produced), while poverty increased
marginally in the urban Savannah and remained basically unchanged in the rural
Savannah (which relies mostly on subsistence agriculture). Poverty decreased most for
export farmers and wage employees while food farmers experienced the least reduction.
About 84 percent of Ghana's poor live in the rural areas, the majority of whom are food
farmers. The reduction in poverty has been matched by broad improvements in social
indicators. Life expectancy increased from 55 to 58 years; primary school enrollment
rose from 75 to 79 percent; and infant mortality declined from 85 to 57 per 1,000 births
during the same period.
B.  Recent Economic Developments
6.   Macroeconomic developments.  Macroeconomic stability remained elusive in
recent years. Fiscal policy was tightened in 1997-98, but the improvement was short-
lived. Starting in 1999, the economy was affected by a major terms of trade shock that
intensified in 2000. As cocoa prices plunged to 27-year lows and oil prices tripled in
1999-2000, Ghana's suffered a terms of trade loss arnounting to 4.5 percent of GDP in
1999 and 6.9 percent of GDP in 2000.5 Real GDP growth gradually declined from 4.7
percent in 1998 to 3.7 percent in 2000, reflecting declining growth in agriculture and
industry. Inflation (end-of-period) rose from 14 percent in 1999 to 40.5 percent in 2000
and the real effective exchange rate (average) depreciated by 33 percent.
7.   The policy response to the terms of trade shock was weak. Fiscal measures were
taken during the first half of 2000 (such as raising the VAT and petroleum taxes), but
with some delay. Expenditure overruns in the latter half of the year prevented the fiscal
deficit from declining as planned. In addition, shortcomings in controlling expenditures
at the commitment stage and tracking payments led to an accumulation of arrears that
reached nearly 2 percent of GDP in 2000. In total, the fiscal deficit (cash basis and after
arrears clearance) rose from 8 percent of GDP in 1999 to 9.7 percent of GDP in 2000.
8.   Difficulties were experienced in financing the deficit as planned. The divestiture of
Ghana Telecom did not proceed as envisaged and privatization receipts were less than
expected. In turn, delays in policy implementation delayed some donor disbursements.
To finance the larger financing gap, the government resorted to domestic borrowing,
which increased the domestic debt to 29 percent of GDP.
9.   The overall result was to create a vicious circle of rising domestic debt and high
interest costs leading to larger fiscal deficits. While government domestic debt climbed
to 29 percent of GDP, external debt increased as a percentage of GDP due to the 45
percent exchange rate depreciation in 2000. The combination of high domestic interest
The terms of trade loss due to cocoa is estimated by multiplying the GDP share of cocoa exports by
the decrease in the export price of cocoa and similarly for the terms of trade loss due to oil.



4
rates and rising debt led to a rapid increase in budgetary interest payments.6  By 2001,
interest payments are projected to reach a level (9.4 percent of GDP) nearly equal to the
overall fiscal deficit (9.6 percent).
Table 1: Ghana - Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1996-2000
1996   1997   1998   1999    2000
Est.
(Annual percentage change)
Real GDP at market prices                               4.6    4.2    4.7    4.4    3.7
Consumer price index (end of period)                   32.7   20.8   15.8   13.8   40.5
(In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
Domestic primary fiscal balance                         0.3    3.2    3.6    1.4    2.4
Overall fiscal balance (cash basis, before arrears clearance)  -9.5  -10.3   -8.1   -8.2   -7.9
Overall fiscal balance (cash basis, after arrears clearance)  -9.6  -10.9   -8.7   -8.0   -9.7
Domestic debt of government                             23.2   24.8   26.0   28.2   28.9
External current account (excluding official grants)   -6.1  -16.7   -8.8  -13.4   -12.3
External current account (including official grants)    -3.1  -14.4   -5.0  -11.5   -9.2
Gross official reserves (months of imports of goods and  2.0    1.8    1.6    1.5    0.8
nonfactor services)
External debt outstanding (excluding short-term debt)  79.7   78.5   78.9   77.2   124.3
External debt service (percent of exports of goods and  21.7   23.7   22.1   21.0   23.3
nonfactor services)
Sources: Ghanaian authorities and staff estimates and projections
10.  Financial imbalances were further aggravated by government's decision not to
adjust the prices of petroleum products to reflect the exchange rate depreciation and the
increase in world prices.7 This translated into substantial operating losses for the four
major public enterprises, and especially the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR). Although
petroleum prices were increased by 30 percent in early 2000, further increases did not
take place until February 2001 despite the rise in the dollar cost of imported oil and the
substantial exchange rate devaluation. As a result, operating losses (excluding financial
charges) by TOR reached 5.2 percent of GDP in 2000. Similar factors lay behind the
losses of the main public utilities. Electricity and water tariffs, which are set by the
Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC), were kept fixed at 1998 levels as were
tariffs for the water company. Taken together the operating losses of Electricity of
Ghana (ECG), Volta River Authority (VRA) and Ghana Water Corporation (GWC)
amounted to 2 percent of GDP in 2000. Most of these losses were financed by the
accumulation of overdraft and bank loans with government guarantees.
6   While the GDP share of government domestic debt (29 percent) is less than the share of external debt
(129 percent), domestic interest rates have remained high in real terms (15 percent on average in
1997-99) and much higher than on foreign debt due to its concessionality. As a result, budgetary
interest payments on government domestic debt are much higher (7.0 percent of GDP) than on its
external debt (2.5 percent).
7   The nominal effective exchange rate depreciated by 9.4 percent in 1999 and 40.5 percent in 2000 in
foreign currency, and the dollar price of oil rose by 38 percent in 1999 and 66 percent in 2000.



5
11.  In total, the increase in domestic financial imbalances, the terms of trade losses and
shortcomings in policy responses led to balance of payments difficulties. Capital inflows
were insufficient to cover the current account deficit. This led to a fall in external
reserves to 0.8 months of imports by end-2000 and an accumulation of external payments
arrears (US$89 million).
12. Political Transition. On January 7, 2001, a new Government headed by President-
elect Mr. John A. Kufuor from the New Patriotic Party (NPP) took office in what
constituted the first democratic transfer of power since Independence in 1957. The NPP
won the presidential vote and parliamentary majority against the former ruling party, the
National Democratic Congress (NDC) in Ghana's third multiparty elections held last
December. The political transition has proceeded peacefully and is widely regarded as a
major achievement for Ghana and for the region.
13. The new Government inherited an extremely difficult situation. Domestically, it
faced the prospects of a debt trap with rising fiscal deficits caused by domestic debt
build-up and high interest rates. But it was also confronted with the risk of another
vicious circle of exchange rate depreciation and inflation. Given the low level of
international reserves, there was a risk of further exchange rate depreciation leading to
higher inflation and monetary expansion, which would fuel another round of depreciation
and inflation. The new Government therefore decided to take immediate measures to
restore macroeconomic stability. It invited the IMF and World Bank to send early
missions to discuss the economic situation and the possible outlines of a new program for
the year. This was followed by an "Enhanced Mini-Consultative Group" meeting in
Accra on May 23, where donors expressed their support to the Government's economic
program.
14. HIPC. In light of the deterioration in Government finances as well as the impact
on external debt service of the large depreciation of the exchange rate, the Governnent
announced in its budget speech that it had decided to avail itself of the debt relief possible
under the HIPC. A revised debt sustainability analysis was carried out in the staffs of the
Bank and the Fund in February and a Preliminary Document completed in May. The
preliminary HIPC document will be presented to the Executive Directors on July 3, 2001,
with a Decision Point expected to be reached by December 2001.
15. PRSP. While the immediate priority is to restore macroeconomic stability, the
Government also launched an intensive participatory process to prepare a full PRSP, the
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).  Working groups from  Government,
academia, civil society, the private sector and development partners, were set up to define
a reform agenda. A three-day National Economic Dialogue was then convened in May
2001 to review the recommendations of the working groups in six core areas: poverty
reduction strategy; financial sector; education, labor and human resource development;
economic policy; golden age of business; and resources for growth. This forum brought
together some 450 people from Government academia, civil society, the private sector,
the minority and think tanks, to debate about the economic situation. Based on the report
of the National Economic Dialogue, a revised GPRS was subsequently prepared for
further discussions at the regional level throughout the country in June/July 2001. The



6
Government's objective is to finalize the GPRS by September/October 2001 in time to
influence the budget for 2002 and the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) of
2002-4.
II. GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
16.   When the new Government took office in early 2001, it brought with it a new
vision of Ghana. The economic philosophy of the new Government as set out in the
President's "State of the Nation" address to Parliament, emphasizes the Party's
commitment to democracy and the rule of law, "zero tolerance for corruption" along with
transparent and well-managed public expenditures. The Government also pledged to
"tackle the huge budget deficit with the aim of balancing the budget by the end of its first
term in office" and to create a "golden age of business" noting that "the partnership of the
private sector with the public sector is at the heart of our national strategy" as well as the
Party's goal that "Ghana become a leading agro-industrial country in Africa by the year
2010". A strong commitment to creating equal access to education, tackling infectious
diseases, especially HIV/AIDS, was also underscored. Finally, the Party's long-held
commitment to decentralization and to strengthening democratic institutions at the local
level was reiterated.
A.  Budgetary Policies
17.   The Government's fiscal reform program is aimed at restoring macroeconomic
stability and accelerating growth and poverty reduction over the longer term. The main
elements of the reform program include: (i) tightening fiscal policy and expenditure
management, including through better governance; (ii) reducing the government domestic
and foreign debt; (iii) eliminating losses in the operations of key parastatals; (iv)
restructuring goverrnment functions; (v) promoting private sector development; and (vi)
increasing human development and poverty reduction, including strengthening the battle
against endemic and infectious diseases.
18.   Tightening fiscal policy is a critical challenge facing the new Government. The
objective is to increase the domestic primary fiscal surplus from 2.4 percent of GDP in
2000 to at least 4-5 percent of GDP in 2001-04 on average, while limiting domestic
borrowing to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2001 and eliminating it in 2002. Domestic payment
arrears amounting to over 1 percent of GDP will be repaid in 2001 and the remaining
stock (0.7 percent of GDP) will be eliminated by end-2002. These measures will ensure
that the government domestic debt decreases from 28.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to below
7 percent of GDP by 2004.
19.  In view of the acknowledged urgency of actions to reduce the fiscal deficit, taxes
were first raised as part of the March Interim budget approved by Parliament. To close
fully the fiscal gap projected for 2001, additional tax measures were submitted to
Parliament (Box 2). The proposed increase in petroleum taxation will be submitted to
Parliament by end-June 2001.  In total, these measures would increase budgetary
revenues by 2 percentage points in 2001 and 3.5 percentage points of GDP in latter years.



7
20.   Measures were also taken to strengthen revenue administration. They include the
appointment of new directors for all revenue collection agencies, the creation of a
National Tax Audit Team to assist the revenue collection agencies; the appointment of a
National Revenue Agencies (Governing Board) and the automation of customs systems.
Box 2: 2001 Main Tax Measures
* A two-year National Reconstruction Levy at rates of 7.5 or 10 percent on the income of financial
institutions and 2.5 percent on all other companies
* A 5 percent import duty on certain products for mining and timber
* A 10 percent tax on exports of lumber
*  A  percent customs processing fee on tariff-exempt imports
* An increase in the withholding tax on suppliers of goods and services from 5 to 7.5 percent
* Collection of arrears on company taxes, import duties and cocoa taxes
* Increases in a number of fees and charges
* A 15 percent excise duty and specific duties averaging 199 cedis per liter on petroleum products,
with effect from September 1, 2001.
21.   Budgetary expenditures. Firm limits are being set on budgetary expenditures.
Expenditures on goods and services will remain at their 2000 levels (with the exception
of utility bills to allow for the adjustment of utility prices), and expenditures on wages
will be maintained at 5.2 percent of GDP in 2001 as in 2000. To meet this target, the
Government will keep wage increases within the appropriation limit approved by
Government by tapering off salary increase for the highest salaries. Employment audits
are also on-going to remove "ghost workers" from the payroll and reduce undue wage
payments.
22.   To take stock of the current situation, comprehensive audits of the payment
arrears by ministries, departments and agencies have been launched. These audits are to
be completed by August 2001 at which time a schedule for the elimination of arrears over
time will be prepared by Government. The objective is to reduce domestic arrears from
1.8 percent of GDP in 2000 to 1.2 percent of GDP in 2001 and to eliminate them in 2002.
23.   Budgetary management. A critical component of the Government's program
for controlling budgetary expenditures is to improve public expenditure management. To
strengthen control at the commitment stage, a rolling cash flow forecast of receipts and
payments has been established in June 2001. Under that system, ceilings on expenditure
commitment have been set for the line ministries and monthly reports on expenditure
commitments and cash expenditures will be produced to help ensure that the fiscal
program remains on track. Key measures include:
*  The recently established Economic Policy Coordinating Committee (EPCC) will
oversee expenditure commitments and cash transactions month by month. Based
on the cash flow forecasts prepared for the EPCC, quarterly expenditure ceilings
will be set for each Ministry, Department and Agency (MDAs) and agreed by the
Cabinet starting from the second half of 2001.
* Monitoring will be done by the EPCC on the basis of two monthly reports
prepared by the Controller and Accountant General's Department (CAGD) with a



8
lag of four weeks after the end of the reporting period. The first report will
concern aggregate cash revenue and expenditure outcome and commitments by
economic classification. The second report will describe cash expenditure and
commitment by MDAs classified by functions.
24.  In parallel to the previous measures aimed at controlling expenditures, the
Government is implementing a comprehensive reform of budgetary management to
improve resource allocation. The reform includes three components: (i) an on-going
budget reforrn aimed at implementing a three-year rolling budget (Medium-Termn
Expenditure Framework); (ii) the introduction of a Budget and Public Expenditure
Management System (BPEMS), under which the three different functions of budget
preparation, budget implementation and budgetary accounting would be integrated into
one system; and (iii) decentralization of government functions. Technical assistance was
provided under an IDA project (FIMTAP). Additional assistance would be provided by
an IDA Public Financial Management Reform Program (PUFMARP II) under
preparation and by bilateral donor assistance. Over the long-term growth and poverty
reduction would be further stimulated by the implementation of the agenda of reforms
emerging from the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (paragraphs 53-58).
B.  Restructuring of Domestic and Foreign Debt
25.   Ghana's indebtedness has become a key constraint to the acceleration of
economic growth and poverty reduction in Ghana. The Government's strategy is to
reduce the stock of government domestic and foreign debt in order to create a virtuous
circle of declining debt payments and lower fiscal deficits. Such a strategy would on one
hand generate the fiscal space needed for financing poverty reducing activities and on the
other hand allow real interest rates to fall, which would stimulate private sector
development and long-term growth.8 The main elements of the government debt
reduction strategy include:
- Reducing and restructuring the debt of government. First, the Government has set
up a technical committee to provide recommendations on the restructuring of its
short-term debt. The objective is to convert at least 50 percent of its current short-
term debt into three-year bonds by end-2001. Second, the Government debt
would fall over time due to the reduction and elimination of net domestic
borrowing by Government and the increase in the domestic primary fiscal surplus
(paragraph 18). Third, Ghana's foreign debt would be reduced with assistance
provided under the enhanced HIPC initiative (paragraphs 63-64).
* Reducing the operating losses of the major public enterprises by about 7
percentage points of GDP in 2001 and eliminating them in 2002 (paragraphs 26-
30).
8  The high level of interest rates in real terms was identified as the main constraint in a survey of firms
done in 2000 as part of the joint Government/NGOs review of Ghana's experience with structural
adjustment (SAPRI).



9
*  Restructuring the debt of nine public enterprises (including the four major ones).
The Government has launched a thorough financial and management audit of nine
public enterprises in order to improve transparency, minimize corruption and
ensure accountability.9 After completion of the financial audits, the Government
will appoint a committee to restructure the debt of these public enterprises.
C.   Eliminating Losses of Public Energy and Utility Companies
26. Faced with the prospect of mounting losses, the Government took immediate
measures to restore the financial viability of the four major public enterprises that are
experiencing losses. These concern TOR (Tema Oil Refinery)--which accounts for most
of the losses, ECG (Electricity of Ghana), GWCL (Ghana Water Company Limited) and
VRA (Volta River Authority).
27.   Tema Oil Refinery.  In order to halt the operating losses (amounting to an
estimated 5.2 percent of GDP in 2000), the new administration raised ex-refinery prices
in early 2001 and an automatic price adjustment formula for subsequent adjustment was
adopted in June 2001. The 91 percent increase in TOR's ex refinery prices, effective
from February 2001, covers the firm's operating costs, but not the finance charges on its
large domestic debt. The Government plans to assume the amount which is attributable
to the non-adjustment of prices during 2000 (about p1.9 trillion out of ¢2.5 trillion of
TOR's short-term debt), including the financial charges incurred by TOR in 2001.10 The
remaining amounts would be restructured, most likely through an extension of maturities,
but financed by TOR.
28.   Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG). The new Government has begun to take
important steps to restore ECG's financial viability. The retail electricity tariff rates were
increased by 96 percent on average with effect from May 1, 2001 so as to enable ECG to
cover its operating costs. II
29. Other public utilities (VRA and GWCL). In April 2001, the wholesale electricity
tariff rate was raised by 100 percent and the water tariff rate by 95 percent, effective May
1, 2001. These increases have sharply reduced the operating losses of both enterprises,
but tariffs remained well below full economic prices.
30.   A  transitional plan has been prepared by the Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (PURC) to restore the long-term financial viability of the electricity sector
9    Audits are being conducted for the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, Tema Oil Refinery,
Bulk Oil Storage and Transport, Electricity Company of Ghana, Ghana Water Company Limited,
Timber Export Development Board. Social Security and National Insurance Trust, State Insurance
Company and Vanef/STC.
10   The finance charges on TOR's debt would be capitalized and included in the debt taken over by
Government. This debt would be restructured in 2001 with the first payments starting in 2002.
The average tariff rate had declined from US$0.082/kWh to US$0.025/kWh by April 2001.



10
(ECG and VRA).'2  On June 21, 2001 the Plan was reviewed during a workshop
comprising all the key stakeholders on the energy sector, with the objective of speeding
up the pace of tariff adjustments in order to reduce the impact of the utilities' projected
deficits on the Government's budget. Agreement was reached on advancing the date for
reaching economic levels to December 31, 2002. Tariffs for some categories, including
financial institutions and other large consumers, would reach full economic rates by
October 2001. This plan would allow VRA and ECG to fully cover all their costs,
including debt service by end-2002.
D.  Restructuring of Government Functions
31.   Rationalization of government functions.  A long-term  program to reform
governrnent ft-n_tions is ongoing as part of the National Institutional Renewal Program
(NIRP), initially launched in the mid- 1990s. Key components of the program include the
rationalization of about 180 subvented agencies, which comprise about 400,000 staff, and
the restructuring of all central management agencies.
32.   The objectives of the reform of the eight central management agencies (CMAs),
including the Ministry of Finance, are to avoid duplication of functions, institute uniform
standards and guidelines, and improve performance and accountability.'3 Studies have
been completed on seven of the eight CMAs and the study of the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development is to be completed by September 2001.
Implementation of reforms will begin afterwards. In parallel, out-placement and re-
deployment initiatives are being developed to assist redundant employees.
33.   Decentralization.  Over the medium-term, the Government's objective is to
strengthen the role of District Assemblies (DAs) in the development process, including
basic education, primary health, roads maintenance, rural housing, social welfare and
community development. To increase the capacity of local governments, a Bill to
establish a Local Government Service would be submitted to Cabinet in September 2001
and Parliament in October 2001. The Bill would initiate the greater involvement of local
governments in the management of staff as well as special incentives for staff relocation
in poor areas.
34.   The decentralization of human resources would be attained through several
measures, and especially: (i) the establishment of District Education Authorities and the
transfer of responsibilities from the Ghana Education Service to these institutions for
basic education; (ii) the formation of Regional Health Authorities and the greater
involvement of DAs and NGOs at the local level as concerns health service delivery; and
(iii) increasing the role of DAs and local communities in the feeder road programs. By
2004, District Assemblies would be empowered to select projects within sectoral and
locational investment allocations for implementation as District level projects.
12  The PURC is a statutorily independent body.
13  They include the Ministry of Finance, the National Development Planning Commission, the Public
Service Commission, the Head of the Civil Service, and the Ministry of Local Government.



I1
35.   Governance. Building on the results of an anticorruption survey completed in
late 2000, the Ghana Anti-Corruption Coalition formulated an Anti-Corruption Action
Plan, which was reviewed during a June 2001 National Governance Workshop. The
objectives of the Government are outlined in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy.
They are to ensure an efficient government administration, increase transparency, and
empower people to participate and influence the process of wealth creation and poverty
reduction. Key measures are as follows:
*  Efficient public administration. A professional and high quality public service
would be attained by reforming the civil service, rationalizing government
subvented agencies, which are the objectives of the National Institutional
Renewal Program (paragraphs 31-32), the Civil Service Performance
Improvement Plan and decentralization measures (paragraphs 33-34).
* Transparent rules and procedures. The Government's policy stance is one of
"zero tolerance for corruption". This is being achieved through the following:
a) Implementation of a code of conduct for civil servants is targeted for 2002.
A Code of Ethics for Ministers is being refined and will be completed by
October 200 1.
b) The Serious Fraud Office has stepped up its investigative operations and a
number of senior and mid-level officials are being prosecuted for improper
conduct. In addition, an Office of Accountability is currently being set up
in the Office of the President.
c) New procurement law. The revised procurement law would provide a
unified set of standards for open procurement to be applied to all public
expenditures. It would be presented to Parliament this year.
d) Restructuring the procedures for auditing. Consultants were appointed in
April 2001 to advise Government on the establishment of an entirely
independent Internal Audit Agency. A decision is expected to take place by
end-June 2001.
* Empowering civil society and Parliament by:
a) Enhancing the oversight functions of Parliament, especially as concerns
financing and poverty reduction. A Parliamentary Committee on Corruption
is being formned and a Research Secretariat will become functional in 2002.
b) Increasing the role of civil society by decentralizing government functions
and facilitating the participation in public affairs by civil society and private
sector, especially as concerns monitoring and evaluation (paragraph 59).
E.  Promoting the Private Sector
36.   The creation of a "golden era for business" is at the heart of the Government's
development agenda. A key component is the restoration of macroeconomic stability and
ensuing reduction in inflation and interest rates. To accelerate growth and poverty
reduction, a reform of marketing for cocoa exports will be deepened. Efforts will also be



12
directed at improving public utility services, developing an efficient financial sector with
proper supervision rules, and revamping the divestiture program, through the
establishment of more transparent rules. The Government's ultimate goals are to make
Ghana attractive as a trade and investment gateway to West Africa as well as a major
regional financial center.
37.   Agriculture Reform. Cocoa is one of Ghana's most important crops, amounting
to some 23 percent of exports. Since the mid-1980s, production has increased by 5
percent per year. Most of the increase resulted from the planting of new trees and a
doubling of yields. This has generated a substantial improvement in the standards of
living for some one million smallholders. In total, the percentage of poor export farmers
fell from 62.2 percent in 1991/92 to 39 percent in 1998/99.
38.   To increase further income at the farm level and ensure sustained production
increases, the new Government has reaffirmed its commitment to continuing the
implementation of the medium-term strategy that was developed in 1999 through broad
consultations in the cocoa sector. The key objectives of the strategy are to: (i) increase
the producer price from 65 percent of the FOB price in 2000/2001 to 70 percent by 2004;
(ii) reduce the government's share from about 25 percent of the f.o.b. price to 15 percent
by 2004/5;14 (iii) liberalize partially external marketing; and (iv) discontinue price
discounts given to local cocoa processors.
39.   At the beginning of the October 2000 crop season, the farmers' price was set at 65
percent of the projected f.o.b. price, but the share subsequently fell to 57 percent
reflecting higher than projected export prices. In order to compensate farmers for the loss
incurred during the 2000 crop season, the Government has raised the farmer's price in the
mid-season by just over 11 percent and it has begun the payment of compensation to
farmers. This action will maintain the farmers' share of the f.o.b. price at 65 percent for
the 2001 crop season, the level achieved in the preceding season. For the following crop
season, the producer price will be adjusted further in line with the objective of raising its
share to 70 percent of the f.o.b. price by 2004/5. The cocoa tax will then be set at a
specific level (flat or an ad valorem rate) to be paid on all exports and on sales to local
processors.
40.   As concerns export marketing, the  Cocoa  Sector Marketing  Committee
(COSMARC) has been reconstituted on June 17, 2001 with the responsibility of
reviewing the applications for export licenses that would allow licensed buying
companies (LBCs) to export up to 30 percent of their domestic purchases.'5 Following
the receipt of applications from seven licensed buying companies (LBCs), COSMARC
14  The Government gets the residual value that remains after the expenses of the Cocoa Board are met
and the producers have received their share.
5  The requirements are regulatory (to have a license), technical (staff must possess the relevant
technical and marketing experience), financial (firm must show that it has access to adequate
resources), and commercial (firm must have purchased a minimum of 10,000 tonnes of cocoa per year
during two years).



13
has issued provisional export licenses to three LBCs. 16  Regarding the processing
subsector, f.o.b. prices would apply to local processors. To this effect, Cocoa Board will
provide regular reports on terms of its sales to processors (including invoices/receipts) to
the Ministry of Finance which will verify the payment of world f.o.b. prices.
41.   Other agricultural sectors.  To realize the Govermnent's goal of increasing
agricultural growth, an Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Development Strategy
(AAGDS) has been formulated. It is based on private sector led investments in
agriculture, devolution of significant responsibilities to district assemblies and the
implementation of a supportive macroeconomic framework. Implementation of the
strategy is being carried out mainly through the Agricultural Service Sector Investment
Program (AgSSIP), which is expected to provide improved service delivery, mechanisms
for the sustainable use of land, and off-farm employment. To ensure adequate access to
land, especially for agro-processing, as well as increased financial resources for
agriculture, an Agricultural Commission would be established by December 2001, as
recommended by the National Economic Dialogue.
42.   Energy Reform.  Progress was initially achieved in establishing the Public
Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) and the Energy Commission (EC), increasing
electricity tariffs in 1998 and initiating the restructuring of the utilities. However, despite
substantial exchange rate depreciation, the PURC did not authorize power tariff increases
in 1999 and 2000 with the result that the non-adjustment of tariffs has led to a substantial
increase in debt arrears and contributed to frequent power outages in the absence of
investments required to cope with increasing demand. To restore financial viability,
PURC has prepared an Action Plan that would allow tariff rates to reach economic levels
by end-2002 (paragraph 30).
43.   Divestiture of ECG was initiated in 1999, but slowed down subsequently, partly
because of the standstill caused by the 2000 political transition. The Government has
now decided to proceed with the selection of the transactions adviser. Request for
proposals will be issued by end-June 2001 with the objective of selecting a transaction
adviser by October 2001 and completing the divestiture of ECG by 2003.
44.   Volta River Authority (VRA). The restructuring plan for VRA includes the
unbundling of transmission and generation activities and placing them into an
autonomous company. The goal is to complete this process by October 2002. The
selection of a consultant to assist with the valuation of transmission assets is in progress.
The electricity regulations for the interconnected grid are under review by the Attorney
General and will be resubmitted to Parliament by end-2001.
45.   Financial Sector Reform. Financial sector policy is aimed at strengthening the
financial soundness of banks and providing opportunities for increasing domestic
savings. The banking sector comprises seventeen banks, of which fourteen are private
and account for 70 percent of deposits following the closure of three insolvent banks in
16  The three companies did not meet all the criteria and were given three months to meet the remaining
criteria (adequate staff, financial information, and establishment of trading room).



14
2000. Although the quality of bank assets deteriorated in 2000, all banks reportedly met
the capital adequacy requirements and their non-performing loans averaged about 16
percent of their portfolios. Currently, most of the financial risk comes from the debt
extended to TOR. To reduce that risk, the Government will take over or restructure the
debt of TOR that is attributable to the lack of adjustment in government-controlled prices.
To improve financial markets, the Government intends to enhance the efficiency of the
banking sector through a program of divestiture and enhanced regulation and supervision.
46.   GCB. The divestiture of the Ghana Commnercial Bank (GCB) has been re-
launched, following a Cabinet decision in April 2001. The objective is to select a
preferred bidder by December 2001. The Government has also re-advertised the sale of
National Investment Bank, in view of the fact that the bidder selected to buy the bank in
late 1999 did not comply with the purchase agreement.
47.   To improve further supervision and regulation, the independence and the
supervisory functions of the Bank of Ghana (BOG) are being strengthened. A new
banking law has been submitted to Parliament and the central bank law has been
amended to ensure BOG's independence and its powers to intervene in troubled banks.
Both laws will be presented to Parliament by end-August 2001. To eliminate potential
conflicts of interest in its capacity as prudential regulator, BOG will also divest its
shareholding in two financial institutions by end-200 1.
48.   As recommended by the National Economic Dialogue, the Government is now
exploring options for providing pension instruments in addition to the current Social
Security and National Investment Trust (SSNIT) scheme. The Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Ghana Stock Exchange will also be encouraged to facilitate the
introduction of mutual trust funds and unit trust schemes by end-2002.
49.   Divestiture Program. The objective of the divestiture program is to ensure
greater efficiency in service delivery and to mobilize funds that would be used for
reducing the domestic debt. In the past two years, however, only the non-core assets of
Ghana National Petroleum Corporation have been divested while two state-owned banks
have been closed down.
50.  In view of the poor results of the past divestiture process, the Government has
decided to revitalize the process. Following the appointment of a new Board for the
Divestiture Implementation Committee's (DIC) in July 2001 and the completion of an
audit of DIC's recent asset sales by August 2001, a new divestiture strategy would be re-
launched in September 2001 for implementation over the following 12 to 18 months.
During 2001, the divestiture of shares in a number of commercial firms is expected to
yield about US$50 million.'7 Further review of the companies to be divested in 2001-
2004 will be undertaken. The Government has requested IFC to assist in the privatization
strategy. Particular attention is being given to ensuring transparency.
17 Ghana Telecom, Coca-Cola, Guinness Ghana Limited, Westel, Aluworks, Ghana Consolidated
Diamonds, Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation, Benso Oil Palm Plantation, Twifo Oil Palm
Plantation and Tema Steel Company Ltd.



15
51.   Trade and Investment Facilitation -- the Ghana Gateway Program. Launched
in 1998, the Gateway Program is aimed at turning Ghana into a Gateway for foreign
investment and trade in the region. It represents a deepening of Ghana's efforts to
increase non-traditional exports and attract direct foreign investment, which started with
the enactment of the Ghana Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) Act in 1994 and the
Free Zone Act in 1995. The Gateway Program seeks to achieve these goals by:
(i) upgrading the physical infrastructure available to investors, including the rapid
development of new export processing zones at Tema, Sekondi and Fumesua (Kumasi)
Inland Free Zone; and (ii) improving administrative service quality by transforming
institutional arrangements of the front-line public agencies, including Customs, Ports and
Harbors and Civil Aviation. Initial results of these efforts have been encouraging, with
the new enterprises registered under the Free Zone Act now accounting for 40 percent to
60 percent of Ghana's non-traditional exports.
52.   The new administration has endorsed the goals and direction of the Gateway
Program. A new Gateway inter-Ministerial Oversight Committee has been established.
Preliminary work is also underway to review the feasibility of broadening the trade and
investment facilitation measures beyond the capital city and implementing them in
secondary towns such as Takoradi and Kumasi. To promote exports and stimulate
growth, the Govermment intends to formulate an export-led strategy with the aim of
accelerating the growth of non-traditional exports.
F.  Human Development and Poverty Reduction
53.   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The Ghana Poverty Reduction
Strategy (GPRS) as the PRSP is referred to in Ghana, builds upon the I-PRSP that was
completed in mid-2000 and Ghana's Vision 2020. The preparation of the GPRS was
launched by the new Government in early 2001 with the objective of setting out the
development agenda for 2002-4, including the use of debt relief and other donor
resources, in order to accelerate growth and poverty reduction. The emerging policy
agenda is described in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex I).
54.   A key element of the new government's poverty reduction strategy is to increase
the efficiency of resources in the social sectors and to better targets resources towards the
regions where poverty was found to be most severe, based on the results of the 1998/99
Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS). To that effect, social spending would be
increased in order to increase the developmental impact of education and health and
reduce the regional disparities concerning basic and technical education, and primary
health care.
55.   The health sector would undergo substantial reform over the medium term. Key
targets include reducing mortality (infant mortality, maternal mortality and child
mortality) and the prevalence of major diseases (guinea worm, malaria, tuberculosis and
HIV/AIDS). Improved delivery of services would be attained in the context of further
decentralization of the Ghana Education Service and the Ghana Health Service by
increasing the responsibilities of District Assemblies. Intersectoral collaboration and
partnerhips with private providers will be enhanced to improve service delivery. In



16
addition, implementation of the user fee exemption policy will be improved through
regular transfers of resources at the local level.
56.   To address the developmental challenge of HIV/AIDS, a Ghana National AIDS
Commission (GAC) has been established. The GAC includes high level representatives
of line Ministries, religious, occupational, NGO affiliations, women's and student
organizations and other interest groups. It is located in the Presidency under the
chairmanship of the President.  The Government has also published a National
Framework for Addressing HIV/AIDS. The objectives include a 30 percent reduction in
new HIV infections by 2005 and improvements in service delivery. The Ghana AIDS
Response Fund (Garfund) -under the authority of the Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC)
would finance governmental and civil society entities and communities to provide a
broad spectrum of preventive and care activities at national, regional and local levels.
57.   The main objectives of the education sector are to increase the gross enrolment
ratio in primary schools from 78 percent to 82 percent by 2004 and in secondary schools
from 58 percent to 62 percent over the same period. This would include increased
enrolment for girls, rehabilitation of infrastructure and provision of teaching materials.
Over the medium-term, the Government intends to promote private involvement in the
provision of tertiary education.
58.   Emergency Social Relief,  The Government is committed to providing
Emergency Social Relief to the regions and groups where poverty was found to be the
highest. These include five regions, the food crop growing areas (subsistence farmers),
and vulnerable groups. A key objective of this program is to narrow the regional and
income equalities that were revealed by the 1998/99 GLSS. An Emergency Relief Social
Committee is to be established to finalize the relief program by regions by July 2001.
Implementation will begin during the second half of 2001 and continue in 2002-2004.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
59. Regular monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the program will be
carried out by key stakeholders, including civil society. A comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation system is being established at the National Development Planning
Commission and it will become operational in August 2001. In order to enhance the
participation of civil society organizations (CSOs) into national policy formulation,
delivery and monitoring, the Government is taking steps to facilitate a permanent
dialogue between Government and CSOs. A Secretariat will be set up by August 2001 to
ensure effective follow-up and monitoring of the recommendations from the National
Economic Dialogue. Districts will be required to establish mechanisms for policy
dialogues on development and budget issues as a permanent feature of governance by
2003.
III. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
60.   The main macroeconomic objectives of the program are to: (i) accelerate real
GDP growth to about 5 percent over the medium term; (ii) bring down inflation from



17
40.5 percent (end of period) in 2000 to single digits by the year 2003; and (iii) rebuild the
stock of gross international reserves to 2-3 months of imports. Fiscal and monetary
policies will aim at substantially reducing the government's net domestic borrowing
requirement, thereby reducing pressures on interest rates and freeing resources in the
banking system for private sector credit; and containing money growth by limiting net
domestic assets.
61.    Reducing inflation.  Monetary policy will be geared to reducing inflation to
single digits. The reduction in the borrowing requirements of the public sector will help
contain monetary growth while freeing some resources for private sector credit. In the
short-term, monetary policy will be tightened and nominal interest rates may rise to help
to halt the inflationary spiral of the last year and signal the Governrnent's desire to fight
inflation. The end-of-period inflation is projected to fall from 40.5 percent in 2000 to 25
percent in 2001 and below 10 percent by 2003.
Table 2. Ghana: Selected Economic Indicators, 2000-2004
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Est.
(Annual percentage change)
Real GDP                                      3.7    4.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumer prices (end-period)                 40.5   25.0   13.0    8.0    5.0
(In percent of GDP unless otherwise indicated)
Budgetary revenue (excluding grants)          17.7   17.4   19.6   19.5   19.9
Budgetary revenues (including grants)         19.8   22.4   24.1   23.2   23.2
Total expenditure                            27.7   30.6   28.8   27.1   25.7
Overall balance (cash basis; after arrears    -9.7   -9.6   -5.7   -4.0   -2.8
clearance)
Domestic primary balance                      2.4    4.0    5.3    4.4    3.8
External current account balance a/           -9.2   -6.5   -4.3   -4.9   -4.9
Gross international reserves b/               0.8    1.4    2.1    2.6    2.9
External debt service ratio (%) c/           23.3   20.6   15.3   14.5   14.5
Source: Government of Ghana and staff projections.
a/ Including extemal grants.
b/ In months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
c/ In percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services.
62.    Reducing the current account deficit and rebuilding reserves.  The recent
substantial real depreciation of the local currency, triggered by the severe terms of trade
shock suffered in 1999-2000, is expected to support a rapid recovery in the trade sector in
the coming years. Exports are projected to increase by 5.9 percent per year in current US
dollars in 2000-2004, while import volumes would grow in tandem with real GDP. This
would result in a decline in the current external account deficit, including official
transfers, from 9.2 percent of GDP in 2000 to 4.9 percent of GDP in 2003 and 2004.
63.    Potential Impact of HIPC Relief Ghana's external debt burden is an obstacle to
economic and social development. Its public external debt at end-2000 amounted to
US$5.9 billion in nominal terms, and its total debt is estimated in Net Present Value
(NPV) tenns at US$3.8 billion. Of the total debt in NPV terms, US$2 billion (52.1



18
percent) is owed to multilateral creditors and US$1.8 billion (47.9 percent) to bilateral
and commercial creditors. Commercial debt amounts to US$360 million.
64.   Ghana's external debt burden would be reduced significantly with assistance
under the enhanced HIPC initiative. Currently, traditional debt mechanisms offer limited
relief in Ghana's case. Ghana has already repaid all its obligation on pre cut-off loans,
and only 6 percent of the other non-Paris Club official debt would be eligible for
rescheduling under the current cut-off date.'8 However, if a new cut-off date of end-
December 2000 were to be assumed, Ghana would be eligible under the fiscal criterion as
its NPV of debt to government revenues of 462 percent exceeds the enhanced HIPC
Initiative threshold of 250 percent.'9 The delivery of that assistance would represent a
potential relief of US$2.1 billion in NPV terms, which would translate into savings
averaging US$175 million per year during 2002-2004. Debt service payments would be
reduced by about US$170 million per year over the 2002 to 2020 period, which would
allow Ghana's debt service ratio to decline from 23 percent in 2000 to 11 percent in 2003
and 11 percent afterwards.
65.   Financing requirements. Financing requirements (grants and medium- and long-
terTn loans) period would amount to US$1,160 million for 2001. Of this total, some
US$316 million would be provided by program assistance from donors, including the
proposed ERSO III. An additional US$241 million would be needed to fill the residual
fiscal financing gap. It is expected that it would be covered by a non-concessional
deferral of payments due in 2001 from Paris Club creditors and comparable action from
other non-multilateral creditors.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  Credit Rationale
66.   The proposed credit is designed to support a substantial and revitalized economic
reform program launched by the new Government that took office in January 2001,
following the first democratic transfer of power since 1957. While much remains to be
done to refine the emerging agenda of reforms, the first signs are extremely encouraging
and provide the basis for providing early IDA support. Within a short period of time, the
Government has put in place a macroeconomic program aimed at getting Ghana out of its
debt trap by drastically reducing government's borrowing, cutting public enterprises'
deficit, and restructuring the domestic debt. In spite of the considerable domestic fiscal
adjustment being put forward, exceptional levels of external program assistance will be
required to finance the 2001 program. Against this background, the proposed credit will
provide needed assistance to meet Ghana's exceptional financing requirements for this
year.
i 8  The current cut-off date for Paris Club rescheduling is January 1, 1983.
19  Ghana also satisfies the revenue effort and openness criteria with a three-year average revenue to
GDP ratio of 17 percent and a three-year average exports to GDP ratio of 37 percent at end-2000.



19
67.   The proposed credit will support the continuation of reforms in those areas which
have been the focus of the Bank's policy dialogue with Ghana in the past two years.
Specifically, the new Government has stated its intention to proceed with ongoing
reforms in the cocoa, energy and banking sectors and has taken important steps to restore
the reform momentum in these areas, following a period of relative standstill during the
electoral transition.
68.   The proposed credit will also support the development of the Government's
emerging agenda of reforms for accelerated growth and poverty reduction. The new
Government has taken steps to take stock of the current situation; it has launched a
participatory process of consultations with civil society to define a medium-term reform
program aimed at accelerating growth and poverty reduction; and it has stated its
intention to reallocate budgetary expenditures to reduce the income and regional
inequalities revealed by the recent poverty survey. This process underlies the on-going
preparation of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, which would set out the policy
agenda of reforms for 2002-2004.
69.   While progress has been made in defining the directions of future reform, as
outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) attached to this President's Report,
and as will be developed further in the PRSP, it is too soon to finalize specific reform
steps that can be expected to be taken in the next 12-18 months. Therefore, it was
considered, prudent to proceed with a one-tranche operation, while identifying explicitly
the areas of reform where policy development is expected over the coming year. Thus,
the development of reforn action programs in these areas becomes the trigger for the
processing of further credit from the Bank that would support the macroeconomic
program in the following years. These triggers, therefore, have the same impact as would
have derived from second tranche conditions.
B.  Specific Actions Underpinning the Credit
70.   Prior Actions. In line with the approach described above, the Government has
taken a number of specific actions to restore macroeconomic stability, revamp the
program of on-going reforms, and launch a process of growth reduction and poverty
reduction. On the macroeconomic front, the Government has reached agreement on a
Fund-supported program for 2001 under the PRGF and has begun implementation of a
strong fiscal package of revenue mobilization and expenditure control (paragraphs 19-
24).
71.   Other key recent actions include:
*  increasing the ex-refinery price for petroleum by 91 percent to cover import costs
effective February 2001;
*  increasing electricity and water tariffs by 96 percent and 95 percent, respectively,
to cover operating costs, effective May 2001;
* obtaining Cabinet approval to re-launch the divestiture process for GCB, and
placing public notice in local and international media to request expressions of
interest from potential buyers for the remaining governrent shares in GCB.



20
* sending out Request for Proposals (RFP) to agreed short list of potential
transactions advisors for ECG;
* starting to compensate cocoa farmers for the losses incurred this season in order
to maintain the share of the producer price for cocoa farrners at least at 65 percent
of the f.o.b. price.
72.   In addition,
* the Cocoa Sector Marketing Committee issued provisional export licenses to three
qualifying LBCs on June 27, 2001. Provisional export licenses were granted
pending the submission by these companies within three months of financial
information, the recruitment of adequate personnel and the establishment of a
trading room.
* PURC has submitted to Government: (i) a transitional plan to adjust electricity
tariff rates to reach economic levels by end-2002; and (ii) an automatic price
adjustment mechanism for electricity tariff rates to adjust for exchange rate and
oil import price movements.
73.   Triggers for future adjustment credits. The Letter of Development Policy
outlines the main directions for the development of future policy reform. From this, we
can identify six areas that we would consider critical. For each of these areas, progress
on specific programs would be a trigger for future program support from IDA. These
would be:
* Poverty reduction. Key areas include: (i) preparation of an Action Plan for
implementing the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, including the reduction of
regional disparities concerming access to education and health; and (ii)
integration of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy with the government annual
budget, beginning with the 2002 budget.
* Decentralization offunctions to District Assemblies, including the strengthening
of the capacity of local governments.
* Continued implementation of restructuring plan concerning the energy sector.
Key areas include: (i) the adjustment of tariffs to reach economic levels; and (ii)
progress in implementing a restructuring plan (unbundling of transmission and
generation functions) for VRA and ECG (involving divestiture).
* Enhanced governance, including the implementation of a National Anti-
Corruption Plan.
* Strengthened monitoring and evaluation by key stakeholders and civil society.
* Promotion of non-traditional exports: formulation of an export-led growth
strategy with the aim of accelerating the growth of non-traditional exports.
20  For an analysis of non-traditional exports, see: "Ghana: International Competitiveness -Opportunities
and Challenges Facing Non-traditional Exports" June 21, 2001; World Bank Report No 22421.



21
C. Link to the CAS
74.   By supporting stabilization efforts and measures to remove constraints for private
sector development, the proposed Credit is fully consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana. The proposed ERSO III is included in the base
case lending scenario of the CAS. The overriding goal of the Ghana's Development
Strategy for Poverty Reduction and the support of the World Bank Group is to eliminate
hard-core poverty. Within that broad goal, the proposed business strategy of the Bank
Group described in the CAS is to: (i) raise the growth rate of the economy; (ii) redefine
the role of the State; and (iii) implement the government's strategy more effectively on
the ground. These elements of the Bank Group's business strategy are fully consistent
with the new Government's economic and social policies. The new Government has, in
fact, expressed its intention to accelerate the pace of reforms precisely in those areas
where the Bank expressed concerns - public expenditure management, privatization and
the role of the private sector, and decentralization.
D.  Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
75.   Credit Amount. The amount of the Credit is proposed at US$110 million. This
is consistent with the level of adjustment lending of US$150 million envisaged for FY01 -
FY03 under the CAS's base case scenario.
76.   Tranche Release. The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche in an amount
equivalent to US$110 million upon effectiveness. The program was designed to provide
immediate balance of payment support to fill up the country's financing gap, which will
occur mainly during the third quarter. Support was conditional on actions taken prior to
credit approval to demonstrate progress in turning the fiscal situation around.
77.   Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  The Credit will follow the
Bank's new simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations.
Under the revised procedures, the Credit will be disbursed in one tranche against
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program. Disbursement will not be tied to
any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. Once the Credit
is approved by the Board, the proceeds of the first tranche of the Credit will be deposited
by IDA in an account at Bank of Ghana at the request of the Borrower. If withdrawals
from this account are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Credit Agreement,
IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return the amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA. The administration of this
Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Although an audit of the
deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any
time.
78.  Implementation of the policy and actions under the program will be monitored by
the Minister of Finance. IDA will monitor implementation of the program through
supervision missions.



22
79.   Impact Indicators. To monitor the proposed Credit's impact, the following
indicators will be monitored on an annual basis: (i) domestic interest payments as a share
of recurrent expenditures; (ii) expenditures in health and education as a share of
domestically-financed expenditures; (iii) non-performing loans in the banking system;
(iv) losses of the four major public enterprises; and (v) private sector credit as a share of
total credit.
E.  Program Benefits and Risks
80.   Benefits. By supporting the Government's efforts to arrest a further deterioration
in the macroeconomic environment, this credit will contribute to give the new
Government the room it needs to focus on the elaboration of its medium-term reform
agenda and to effectively engage in a meaningful consultative process with stakeholders,
including civil society and development partners. In the short-term, the proposed credit
will help to phase over time the size of the domestic adjustment that would otherwise be
required to restore macroeconomic stability, thereby minimizing the risk of a social
backlash that may compromise the continued implementation of the reform program
under formulation.
81.   Over the longer term, the proposed credit would support the implementation of
reforms that contribute to reducing poverty. On one hand, continued commitment to
continue improving the share of producer prices for cocoa farmers will have a direct
positive impact on growth and poverty reduction as cocoa earnings remain an important
source of income for about one million rural families.  On the other hand, the
strengthening of governance and the restoration of fiscal discipline will facilitate the re-
allocation of budgetary expenditures to reduce Ghana's income and regional inequalities.
Both factors will contribute to promoting the political stability needed to sustain Ghana's
aspirations.
82.   Risks. This is a high risk operation. First, the new Government's track record is
short and the political will to implement tough decisions may dwindle, especially if
visible improvements are not rapidly achieved. In the first few months in office,
however, the Government has demonstrated its determination to reversing the situation
by taking decisive up front action. At the same time, it has sought to gather public
support by making explicit its objectives to orient public expenditures to social priorities
and to target vulnerable groups. In particular, it has begun a process of consensus
building in several fora, including discussions at the National Dialogue to prepare the
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, which should help to build a consensus for the need
for adjustment over the medium-term. Also in designing its economic program, the
Government has been careful to commit only to what it perceives as politically " doable",
thus reducing the risk of a backlash.  Second, capacity constraints could affect
implementation, especially given the removal of a number of senior management and
mid-level staff in most public institutions. To increase implementation capacity, the
Government is seeking to recruit new staff and attract Ghanaians living abroad. Third,
given Ghana's continued reliance on commodity exports, it will remain vulnerable to
terms of trade shocks for some time to come. Indications are, however, that prices for
cocoa and gold will continue to recover and the probability of further increases in oil



23
prices is low. In addition, the expected relief under HIPC would contribute to reducing
Ghana's debt service payments, which would increase the capacity of the country to
adjust to external shocks.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION
WITH OTHER DONORS
83.   Bank Group. As of June 25, 2001, there were 25 active projects in the Bank's
portfolio in Ghana, totaling US$1076.5 million, of which US$432.8 million were
undisbursed. The International Finance Corporation's (IFC) portfolio totals 18 active
projects with total commitments of US$61 million. Currently, Ghana has one guarantee
from the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) with a US$18 million gross
exposure.
84.  International Monetary Fund (IMF). Bank staff are working closely with the
IMF and other donors in helping Ghana design and implement its reform program. The
Bank and the IMF collaborated with the Ghanaian authorities on the preparation of the
Interim PRSP, which was discussed by both Boards in August 2000. The Fund and the
Bank staff recently prepared the Preliminary HIPC Document for Ghana for presentation
at the respective Boards in late June and early July, 2001. A three-year Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) for Ghana was approved by the Fund's Board on
May 3, 1999. The staff report on the third review under the PRGF was presented to the
Board on June 27, 2001.
85.   Other Donors. The Bank, as Chair of the Consultative Group (CG) meetings,
provides the forum for meetings every alternate year. The last CG meeting was held in
November 1999 in Accra and was co-Chaired by the Government and the Bank. Within
this framework, an Enhanced Mini-Consultative Group meeting took place in Accra on
May 23, 2001. The "Mini-CG" is a consultative forum that has been established in
Ghana to provide for quarterly exchanges of view between the Government and
development partners on issues of mutual interest, notably in the areas of economic
management, poverty reduction strategies and programs, and donor coordination,
especially for program support. This meeting was "enhanced" in the sense that capitals
of development partners were invited to send representatives for this special all day
session of the Mini-CG. Overall, broad support was expressed for the Government's
program and the decision to apply for debt relief under the HIPC initiative. Consultations
with bilateral and multilateral donors also take place in the context of specific projects or
programs and also under the Special Program of Assistance for Africa. The development
of sector programs in roads, health, and agriculture has enhanced donor coordination
considerably.



24
V. RECOMMENDATION
86.   1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 2001



Annex A
25
Ghana: Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 2001-2004
Policy Area       Objectives                       Strategies and Measures              Timing of
Measures
I. Fiscal Policies   Reduce fiscal deficit to  Increase domestic primary fiscal surplus to 4% of  2001-2002
sustainable level.    GDP in 2001 and 5.3% in 2002.
A. Revenues       Improve revenue        Key measures include: increased taxes on petroleum,  March 2001
mobilization.         imposition of a two-year National Reconstruction
Levy and increased withholding tax on suppliers of
goods and services.
National tax audit team created; customs office  2001
automated; review the tariff and exemption regimes.
Strengthen tax        Establish Revenue Agencies Board to act as the  2002
administration.       central governing body.
B. Expenditures    Set limits on         Maintain expenditure on goods and services at their  2001
expenditures.         2000 levels in real terms.
Keep wage bill at 5.2% of GDP.                2001
Budgetary arrears to be reduced from 1.8% of GDP    2001-2002
in 2000 to 1.2% in 2001 and 0% in 2002.
Strengthen control over  Economic Policy Coordinating Committee has been   July 2001
budgetary expenditures.  established to oversee the forecasting and monitoring
of commitments and cash transactions;
Establish quarterly ceilings on expenditures for each  June 2001
Ministry, Department and Agency.
Generate monthly reports concerning revenues and    Aug. 2001
expenditures.
Improve budgetary     Prioritize expenditures in accordance with the Ghana  Oct. 2001
allocation.           Poverty Reduction Strategy, starting with the 2002
budget.
C. Debt           Reduce domestic        Restructure government debt by converting 50% of   By end-2001
Management        budgetary interest     short-term debt into medium-term zero coupon bond.
payments.             Reduce net government domestic borrowing to zero.  End-2002
Reduce foreign debt.    Mobilize debt relief under enhanced HIPC     2001/2002
II. Public Sector Management
A. Central        Provide high quality   Rationalize about 180 subvented agencies      2002-2004
government        government services
Rationalize major     Complete remaining eighth study                Sept. 2001
central management    Implement program.                             2002-2004
agencies.
Increase efficiency of   Implement National Institutional Renewal Program    2002-2004
civil service.        and Civil Service Performance.



Annex A
26
Policy Area          Objectives and                  Strategies and Measures              Timing of
Targets                                                              Measures
B. Local             Empower District     Increase capacity by:
governments          Assemblies (DAs) to       Submit Local Government Service Bill to    Oct. 2001
decide on
devlomet                 Parliament.
priorities.              Establishing District Education Authorities and   2002-2004
Regional Health Authorities.
Increase role of DAs in locating feeder road projects.  2002-2004
C. Governance        Reduce corruption.    Formulate government action plan based on      Mid-2001
corruption survey done in 2000.
Implement code of conduct for civil servants.   2002
Step up the investigative operations of the Serious  On-going
Fraud Office.
Establish Office of Accountability in the Office of    End-2001
the President.
Increase             Submit revised procurement law to Parliament.   By end-2001
transparency.
Strengthen           Review proposals to establish an entirely       Sept. 2001
procedures for audits.  independent Internal Audit Agency.
D. Public            Eliminate the        TOR: Ex-refmery prices were raised by 91%.      Feb. 2001
Enterprises          operating losses of    Adopt automatic price adjustment formula for further  June 2001
the four major public  adjustment.
enterprises.
ECG and VRA: tariff rates were raised by 96% and
95%, respectively on average.                   May 2001
Prepare transitional plan for raising tariff rates to  June 2001
economic levels by October 2002.
Implement plan.                                2001-2002
GWCL: water tariff rate was increased by 95%.   May 2001
Restructure the debt   Complete financial audits of nine public enterprises   August 2001
of public enterprises.  (including the four major ones).
TOR: Government to assume the share of TORs'    By end-2001
debt (76%), which is attributable to the lack of price
adjustment in 2000. The remaining amount would
be restructured and serviced by TOR.
Others: restructure debt once audit is completed  By end-2001
III. Monetary and Financial Sector
A. Bank of Ghana     Enhance              Submit revised Bank of Ghana Law to Parliament.    End-Aug.
independence.                                                        2001
B. Foreign Exchange  Improve efficiency in  Reduce direct sales of foreign exchange by Bank of   2001-2002
allocation           Ghana to major parastatals and channel more foreign
exchange through the commercial banks.



Annex A
27
Policy Area         Objectives and                 Strategies and Measures              Timing of
Targets                                                            Measures
C. Supervision      Reduce potential for   Bank of Ghana will divest its shareholdings in all  By end-2001
conflict of interest.    fnancial institutions.
Strengthen          Submit revised Banking Act to Parliament.      Aug. 2001
supervision.
Government to take over the debt of TOR to reduce   2001
Reduce exposure of   the financial risk created by TOR's debt.
banks to non-
performing loans.   Bank of Ghana to improve risk monitoring and   2001
contingency for recapitalization by banks.
D. Accelerate reform  Increase private   Re-launch the divestiture of Ghana Commercial  April 2001
of banking sector.  participation.       Bank:
Select a preferred bidder by Dec. 2001        2001
Re-advertise the sale of National Investment Bank.    2001
IV. Private sector development
A. Private sector   Provide adequate    Implement GATEWAY program aimed at removing   2001-2004
Development         infrastructure to   infrastructure constraints on trade and improving
exporters.          services provided by Customs, Ports and Harbours
and Civil Aviation.
Promote non-        Formulate export-led strategy for the promotion of    2001-2002
traditional exports    non-traditional exports.
Divestiture of state    Divest government assets amounting to about US$50  2001
enterprises.        million in 2001.
Re-launch divestiture program in Sept. 2001   Sept. 2001
following the appointment of a new Board for the
Divestiture Implementation Committee's (DIC) in
July 2001 and the completion of an audit of DIC's
recent asset sales by August 2001.
B. Agriculture      Increase farmers'    Increase the producer's price from 65% to 70% of    2001-2004
incentives and      the f.o.b. price by 2004.
competitiveness of    Issue export licenses to licensed buying companies to  June 2001
cocoa sector.       allow them to export 30% of their domestic
purchases.
Discontinue price discounts on cocoa supplied to  2001
domestic producers, allowing them to purchase
cocoa at f.o.b. price.
Increase            Implement Agricultural Services Investment Plan  2001-2004
diversification of  (AgSSIP).
agriculture.
Establish Agricultural Commission to facilitate  End-2001
adequate access to land, especially for agro-
industries.



Annex A
28
Policy Area       Objectives and                   Strategies and Measures              Timing of
Targets                                                              Measures
C. Energy         Increase private sector   ECG: Complete selection of transactions adviser.    2001
involvement           Complete the divestiture of ECG.               2003
VRA: Resubmit to Parliament the electricity   End-2001
regulations for the interconnected grid.
Complete restructuring of VRA (unbundling of  Oct 2002
transmission and generation activities and placing
them into an autonomous company).
IV. Poverty and Human Development
A. Achieve        Formulate and          Initiate the preparation of GPRS through a broad-  2000-2001
equitable economic  implement reform     based participatory consensus-building.
growth and        agenda --Ghana Poverty
acceleratedpoverty  Reduction Strategy   Formulate recommendations for five core areas  March 2001
reduction.        (GPRS).               (macroeconomic stability; facilitating increased
production and gainful employment; direct support
for human resource development and basic services;
targeted support for the vulnerability and the
excluded; enhancing good governance).
Review recommendations during National Economic  May 2001
Dialogue.
Carry out further discussions at regional level  July-Sept.
through out the country.                      2001
Finalize recommendations for the GPRS.        Oct. 2001
Ensure increased and    Integrate GPRS within budget, starting with the 2002  Oct. 2001
more efficient social    budget.
sector spending and   Increase expenditures on education and health from    2001-2002
better targeting of   32% to 36% of the domestic primary expenditure.
results based on the
results of the 1999   Implement cross-subsidies in favor of the poor as  2001
Ghana Living Standard  concerns the prices of petroleum and utilities, and
Survey.               increase the lowest wages more than the highest.
Reduce regional       Re-allocate budgetary expenditures to the five  2002-2004
disparities between the   poverty endemic regions, the food crop growing
poorer northern regions  areas and vulnerable groups (identified by the 1999
and the southern      Ghana Living Standard Survey).
regions.              Establish Emergency Relief Committee to finalize  Aug. 2001
the specific relief activities for each region.
Implement relief.                             2002-2004



Annex A
29
Policy Area       Objectives and                   Strategies and Measures              Timing of
Targets                                                             Measures
V. Social Policies
A. Health         Reduce the prevalence   Implement institutional reforms: give greater  2002-2004
of major diseases     autonomy to the Ghana Health Service and Teaching
(malaria, tuberculosis,   Hospitals in service delivery.
and guinea worms).    Institute intersectoral collaboration and partnerships   2002-2004
with private providers to enhance service delivery.
Reduce maternal       Review the system of user fees and improve system
mortality and under five  through regular transfer of resources to local level.   2002-2004
mortality.
Reduce the incidence of National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework has been
HIV/AIDS.             formulated and Ghana AIDS Commission has been
established.
Implement multisectoral approach to bring the  2001-2004
spread of HIV/AIDS under control.
Launch pilot program to reduce mother-to-child  2002
transmission of HIV
B. Education      Increase the gross    Implement institutional reforms to decentralize basic  2002-2004
enrolment ratio (GER)   education to District Assemblies.
for primary schools   Increase budgetary resources.
from 78% to 82%, and
increase the gross    Increase enrolment drive for girls.
enrolment ratio (GER)   Rehabilitate existing infrastructure.
for junior secondary
schools from 58% to
62%.
Tertiary education.   Promote private participation over the medium-term.
VI. Monitoring    Ensure effective       Establish monitoring and evaluation system within    2001
and evaluation    utilization of resources   Government.
and cost effectiveness.
Enhance capacity of civil society to monitor results.   2002-2004
Establish institutional structures to facilitate dialogue  2001-2002
between govermnent and civil society
Establish secretariat to follow-up and monitor the  Aug. 2001
implementations of the recommendations of the
National Economic Dialogue.
District Assemblies to carry out community level  2003
dialogues on development issues.



30                                                 Amnex B
Ghana at a Glance                                                        6/27/2I1
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low.          
Ghana    Africa   Income       Development diamond*
1999
Popuiationrmid-year(milliOns)                        18.8       643     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlss method, USS)                   400        490      420
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      7.5       316     1,008
Aveae annual gowth, 1993-99
POpUlaion (X)                                         2.5       2.6       1.9     GNP                              Gross
Labor fore (%)                                        2.7       2.6       2.4     per                             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 19S3-99)                             capita                       enrollment
Povety (% of popuflabo,bdow nabnal povertfine)        31
Urban population (% of total p4ouiaUon)               38         34       31
Lfes Peancy at bklh (years)                           58         47       59
Inant montality (per 1,000 a bie s)                   57         92       77
Child maltrtion (% of children under 5)               25          .         ,.          Access to improved water source
Acces to an improved  aer source (% op    )            64        55        76
Illiteracy(% fpopulNlon age 15)                      30         39       39
Gros    ra enrollment (% d school-age populstIo)       79        78       96       -Ghana   -Low-income group
mate                                                84         85       102 
Female                                              74         71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980    1990       1990     2000    r
GOP (US$ biIonts)                            4.4      5.9       7.8       5.0     Economic ratioe
Gross domestk investnerntGDP                 5.8    14.4       21,0      24.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP            8.5     16.9      31.9      48.0
Gross domestc savings/GOP                    4.9      5.5       4.2       4.7
Current account balancGP                    -1.2    -7.3      -11.5      -9.2                      tX
interest payments/GDP                        0.7      1,0       1.6       2.2     Domestic                    Investment
Total debtGDP                               31.5    65.8       75.0    124.3    savings
Total debt   ervi/expot                     13.1     23.3      21.0      23.0
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      49.0      79.0
Present value of debttexports                 ..       ..    158.0    1600
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1900      2000   2000-04
(average annua groh)
GOP                                 3.0      4.1      4.4       3.7       5.4
GNPpercapta                        -0.6      1A.      22        0.8       2.9      -Ghna              Low-ncomagroup
Exportsofgoodsandservices           2.5    10.9       7.6       1.8       2.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      199S      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 57.9    44.8       40.2      39.6     20
Industry                                    11.9    16.8       27.7      27.7     10
Manufacturing                              7.8      9.8        9.0      9.0    -10      \7  9
Services                                    30.2     38.4      32.1      32.7             95   96   97   98   99    0
-20
Private consumption                         83.9    85.2       82.2      80.0    -30
General government consumption              11.2      9.3      13.6      15.3              -G OI   -              GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.2    25.9       49.2      67.6
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  1.0      3.4       4.5       3.6     60
Industry                                     3.3      2.6       4.9       3.8     40
Manufacturing                              3.9    -3.3        4.6       3.7     2
Services                                     5.7      5.3       5.0       5.4     20
Private consumption                          2.8      4.0      15.9       2.7    -20      95   96   97   98   99
General government consumption               2.4      5.4      -5.4      20.1
Gross fixed investment                       3.3      2.3      -3.3    -19.1    -40
Importsofgoodsandservices                    0.6     11.4      10.9    -17.3             -Exports    Imports
Gross national product                       2.8      4.1       4.5       3.4
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete. Latest year for improved water source data is 2000.



31                                                Annex B
Ghana at a Glance                                                      Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990         1999        2000      iflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        8 
(%6 change)                                                                            80
Consumerprices                                        37.3         12.4       25.2     60
Implicit GDP deflator                        51.1     31.2        14.0        27.2     40  -
Government finance                                                                    I20
(% of GDP)                                                                              0
Current revenue (exduding grants)             7.5    12.5          16.4       17.7              95   96   97   98   99   00
Current budget balance                       -7.9      1.7          0.7        0.3           -      GDP deflator -C-CPI
Overall budget balance                          ..    -5.7        -8.2        -6.8
TRADE
1990        1999        2000
(US$ millions)                                                    1                      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    897        2006        1898     4,000 T
Cocoa                                                361         552         437      3000*-
Timber                                               119          174        175      2 000 l           _             A _ _
Total imports (fob)                                  1,290        3252        2759     1 000
Non-oil                                                 ..        2919        2939       '  0  l-'d d ,-m
Fuel and energy                                      205         333         520    1
94  95  96  97  98  99  00
Export price index (1990=100)                           92          98          88
Importpnceindex(1990=100)                              101          89         101                   m Exports    *lmports
Terms of trade (1990=100)                               92         110          87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ minions)                                1980    1990         1999           2000   Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                   1,210     982        2,473       2,402       0   _
Importsofgoodsandservices                   1,175    1,505       3,826      3,362               W
Resource balance                               36    -522        -1353        -960       5                   __
10, Y5I
Net current transfers                          -3     202          620         650                                          _
Current account balance                       -54    -431         -895        -457     1
Changes in net reserves                        96    -118          102         196    12
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990         1999        2000
(USS milnons)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,398    3,873       6,202      6,482                   G: 295
IBRD                                        114     113           18          ..                        A: 18
IDA                                         99    1,310        3,099          ..          F:758   .-        -
Total debt service                            159     231          522         534
IBRD                                         11      20           13           6
IDA                                           1       10          42          42                                      B
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     3,099
Official grants                              83     214          159         165          E:
Offical creditors                           185     335          126          97        1,690
Private creditors                          -42       28           18          65
Foreign direct investment                     .      15           46          59              D: 33
:         ~~C. 309
World Bank program                                                                   :A - lRD                      E - Bilateral
Commitments                                 55      297          282          42    B - IDA    D - Other         F - Pivate
Disbursements                               29      205          223         196    C - IMF   multilateral       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                          3       13          30          26
Net flows                                   26      192          193         170
Interest payments                             9      17           25          21
Nettransfers                                17      175          168         149



32                             Annex C
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
Actual            Estimate        Projected
1996  1997  1998  1999    2000   2001  2002 2003 2004
National accounts
(as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'   100  100   100  100        100    100  100  100  100
Agriculture             40.8  40.3  40.4  40.2    39.6   39.5  39.0  38.5  38.0
Industry               27.8  28.0  27.6  27.7    27.7   27.7  28.0  28.3  28.7
Services               31.3  31.6  32.0  32.1     32.7   32.8  33.0  33.2  33.3
Total Consumption        78.8  95.8  89.8  95.8     95.0   95.0  91.0  90.0  89.0
Gross domestic fixed     29.2  23.8  22.4  21.0    23.7   24.0  23.0  23.7  23.6
investment
Government investment    13.3  12.4  11.3  9.8     9.2   10.6  11.2  10.2  9.8
Private investment      15.9  11.4  11.1  11.2    14.5   13.4  11.8  13.4  13.8
Exports (GNFS)b          32.1  32.4  33.9  31.8    48.3   50.3  49.8  48.9  49.1
Imports (GNFS)           40.1  53.0  46.7  49.2     67.6   69.3  65.9  64.4  63.4
Gross domestic savings   21.2  4.2  10.2  4.2        5.0    5.0  8.8  9.9  10.8
Gross national savings'  26.1  10.3  18.1  10.4     15.0   17.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product   6925.5 6885  7475 7775   4976.7  4859 5306 5714 6122
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita            380  390  390  400        360  ..   ..
(US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
Gross domestic product  4.6  4.2   4.7  4.4        3.7    4.0  5.0  5.0  5.0
Gross Domestic Income   2.5  4.3   6.3  3.1        2.3    4.6  5.8  7.1  6.8
Real annual per capita growth rates
Gross domestic product  2.0  1.7  2.3   1.8        1.2    1.4  2.4  2.4  2.4
Total consumption      -4.2  5.0  -6.5  9.5        2.5    2.2  -0.6  1.1  2.2
Private consumption     -5.3  5.2  -8.4  13.0      0.1    0.8  2.1   3.2  4.3



33                             Annex C
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual          Estimate        Projected
1996  1997 1998 1999    2000   2001 2002 2003 2004
Public finance
(as % of GDP at market prices)e
Current revenues (excl. grants)  17.6  17.3  18.4  16.4   17.7  17.4  19.6  19.5  19.9
Current expenditures           16.4  16.5  17.3  16.4     18.5  19.4  17.3  15.9  14.7
Current account surplus (1)     1.2  0.8  1.1      0      -0.8    -2  2.3  3.6  5.2
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure (domestic)    6   3.8  4.4  4.1        3.2   3.4  3.9  4.5  5.1
Foreign financing (net)         3.7   4.6  3.1   2.5      -0.2   1.8  1.4  1.5  1.3
Balance of Payments
(US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                2224  2231 2532 2473       2402  2442 2643 2795 3006
Merchandise FOB              1810  1810 2091  2006      1898  1907 2075 2204 2386
Imports (GNFS)b               2776  3648 3493  3826      3362  3367 3499 3679 3883
Merchandise FOB              2296  3041 2918  3252     2759  2725 2810 2957 3125
Resource balance               -552 -1417  -961 -1353     -960  -925  -856  -884  -877
Net current transfers           482   560  741   620       650   787  812  785  781
Current account balance
(incl.official transfers)     -215  -991  -371  -895     -457  -316 -228  -281  -298
Net private foreign
direct investment               20    36   45   46         59    56   70   75   81
Long-term loans (net)            233   257  244   176       173   106  127  131  133
Other capital                   -220  460  133  596          74     0    0    0    0
(net, incl. errors & ommissions)
Change in reserveSd             100   141  -73   109       196  -178 -249  -181  -160
a. GDP components are estimated at factor costs.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



34                              Annex C
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual            Estimate         Projected
1996  1997 1998  1999      2000  2001  2002  2003 2004
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)       -8.0 -20.6 -12.9 -17.4    -19.3  -19.0 -16.1 -15.5 -14.3
Real annual growth rates
Merchandise exports (FOB)       28.9   4.6  12.3  -2.8       3.5  -1.7   4.2   3.9  2.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)        36.4  40.6   1.7  10.4    -24.9   1.5   6.3   3.8    4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                          20.8  23.5  22.6  22.0      23.3  22.0
Growth of M2 (%)                65.4  40.8  17.7  16.0      39.8  32.0
Price indices (1990=100)
Merchandise export price index  107.8 103.1 106.0  97.7     88.0  89.7  93.8  95.7 101.4
Merchandise import price index  99.4  93.6  88.3  89.1    100.8  98.1  95.2  96.5  98.0
Merchandise terms oftrade index    108.5 110.1 120.0 109.7  87.3  91.4  98.5  99.2 103.5
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)e    80.1  84.9  91.9  92.3     60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0
Consumer price index (% change)    46.6  27.9  19.3  12.4   25.2  33.0  19.0  10.5  5.0
GDP deflator (% change)         39.8  19.5  17.0  14.0      27.2  34.6  20.5  11.0  6.5
a. GDP components are estimated at factor costs.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



35                                    Annex D
Ghana: Selected Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Latest sinfle year       Same re2ion/income 2roun
1970-75  1980-85  1994-99   Sub-Saharan   Low-income
Africa
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)           9.8     12.6      18.8          642.3        2,417.0
Growth rate (percent annual average)            2.6      3.2       2.5            2.4            1.9
Urban population (percent of population)       30.1     32.3      37.9           33.9           31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)         6.6      6.4       4.3             5.4           3.8
POVERTY (percent ofpopulation)
Urban population                                 ..       ..      19.4
Rural population                                  ..      ..      49.5
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                           310       360       400            490           420
Consumerprice index(1995=100)                    ..       8       241             131           138
Food price index (1995=100)                     ..        8       199
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                ..     39.6
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)              ..      5.9
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)             ..     45.9
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (percent of GDP)                           ..      ..       1.8             1.7           1.2
Education (percent of GNI)                      5.9      2.6       4.2            4.1            3.3
Social security and welfare (percent of GDP)
Gross primary school enrollment rate
Total (percent of age group)                    62        75        79             78            96
Male                                             82       85        84             85            102
Female                                          63        66        74             71            86
Access to an improved water source
Total (percent ofpopulation                     35        ..        64             55            76
Urban                                           86       57        87              82            88
Rural                                           14       40        49             41             70
Immunization rate (percent under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..       21        73             57            64
DPT                                              ..       19        72             59            70
Child malnutrition (percent under 5 years)         ..       27        25
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                                           51        55        58             47            59
Male                                            50        54        57             46            58
Female                                          53        57        59             48            60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)              103        85        57             92            77
Under 5 (per thousand live births)              186      157       109            161            116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  459      400       316             499           288
Female (per 1,000 population)                377      334       272             453           258
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)               ..   1,000       210
Births attended by skilled health staff (%/6)    ..       47        44
Latest year for access to improved safe water source data is 2000.
* 1987 percentage
Source: World Bank, 2001 World Development Indicators, and regional Database



36                               Annex E
Ghana: External Financing Requirements and Sources,
1999-2003 (millions of US dollars)
Proiections
1999      2000      2001       2002
Current Account                           -1,044      -611       -603      -533
(excluding official transfers)          -1,044       -611      -603       -533
Exports, f.o.b.                          2,006      1,898      1,907     2,075
Imports, f.o.b.                          -3,252    -2,759    -2,725     -2,810
Services (net)                            -269       -246      -305       -334
Private transfers                          472       496        521        536
Capital account                              219      -314       -260      -233
Scheduled amortization                    -325       -416      -288       -277
IMF repayments                             -76        -37       -64        -15
Other capital (net)'                       619        139        92         59
Change in official reserves (increase -)     102       196       -207      -249
Change in arrears (decrease -)                62        27        -89         0
External financing requirements             -661      -702    -1,159      -1,014
Expected disbursements                       661       702        919       747
Grants (net)                               149       154       266        276
Project and other                         92        112       105        180
Program                                   56        42        161        96
Concessional loans                        451        513        514       400
Project & other                          358       369        359       325
Program                                   93        144       155         75
IMF                                         61        36        139        71
Residual financing gap                      0      0            240         267
TOTAL
Requirements(excluding Fund)              600    667           1020         943
Sources: Data provided by the Ghanaian authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections



37                                          Annex F
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 0612512001
Active Prolects                                                                                                      Difference
Between Expected
Last PSR                                                        and Actual
Supervision Rating            Orlainal Amount In USS Millions    Disbursements*'
ProJectlD ProJect Name                  Development Ilem enttlon Fiscal Year  IBRD  IDA GRANT Cancel. Undisb. Orig.  Frm Revd
P000968  AGRIC SERVICES                       S                 S         2001         0   67      0      0    66  23.5           0
P000975  BASIC EDUCATION                      S                 S         1996         0   50      0      0   14.5  3.5           0
P040659  COMMUNITY DEV.                       U                 U         1999         0    5      0      0    4.8  1.5           0
P050616  COMMUNITY WATER II                   S                 S         2000         0   25      0      0    21  -2.5           0
P000948  EDUCNOC.TRNG                         S                 S         1995         0  9.6      0      0    1.5  -0.8         -1
P040557  ERSO II                              S                 S         1999         0  230      0      0   44.5 -46.1          0
P000962  FISHERIES                            S                 S         1995         0    9      0      0    1.6  -0.5          0
P045188  FOREST BIODIVERSITY                  S                 S         1998         0    0    8.9      0    6.8    0           0
P071617  Ghana AIDS Response Project          S                 S         2001         0   25      0      0   25.4    0           0
P000949  HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                  HS                S         1998         0   35      0      0    5.4 -10.2          0
P000957  Highway Sector Investment Program    S                 S         1996         0  100      0      0   18.3  2.4           0
P000936  LOCAL GOVT DEV.                      S                 S         1994         0 38.5      0      0    6.4  -3.4          0
P000966  MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                 S                 S         1995         0 12.3      0      0    1.1  -1.6          0
P000974  NAT FUNC LIT PROG                    U                 S         1999         0   32      0      0    28   5.4           0
P000946  NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                   S                 S         1998         0  9.3      0      0    4.2  2.3           0
P000943  NON-BANK FIN INSAST                  S                 S         1996         0 23.9      0    2.7   7.8  5.5            0
P045588  PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                  S                 U         1997         0 20.9      0      0   11.7  7.4           0
P050615  PUB.SECTOR MNGT.PROG                 S                 S         1999         0 14.3      0      0    7.1  1.3           0
P042516  PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR                 S                 S         1996         0 26.4      0      0    13   5.7           0
P069465  RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT S                     S         2000         0  5.1      0      0    5.1  2.3           0
P000926  THERMAL (P-VII)                      S                 S         1995         0  176      0      0   27.4  -17         -17
P000970  TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                 S                 S         1999         0 50.5      0      0   42.6  10.2          0
P050624  URBAN 5                              S                 S         2000         0 10.8      0      0   10.5    0           0
P000973  URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION  S                      S         1996         0   71      0      0   21.7  5.9           0
P041150  VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE               S                 U         1997         0   30      0      0   17.7  0.3           0
Total                                                                                    1077    8.9   2.7  414.2  -6.2        -18.1
Closed Projects          85
IBRDJIDA*
Total Disbursed (Active)             592.90
of which has been repaid       0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)             2,978.60
of which has been repaid        356.00
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)    3,571.52
of which has been repaid        356.03
Total Undisbursed (Active)           407.39
Total Undisbursed (Closed)           0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)  407.39



38                                 Annex F
Ghana
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval   Company            Loan  Equity Quasi Partic   Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1993          AEF Afariwaa         0.18     0      0     0   0.18      0    0    0
1990          AEF Alugan           0.05     0     0      0   0.05      0    0    0
1992          AEF CFL              0.28     0     0      0   0.28      0    0    0
1995          AEF Dupaul Wood      0.06     0     0      0   0.06      0    0    0
1998          AEF NCS                 0     0  0.67      0      0      0  0.67    0
1997          AEF PTS                 0     0  0.31      0      0     0  0.31    0
1991          AEF Packrite         0.05     0     0      0   0.05      0    0    0
1999          AEF PharmaCare        0.4     0     0      0    0.4      0    0    0
1994          AEF Shangri-la       0.97     0     0      0   0.97     0    0    0
1996          AEF Tacks Farms      0.37     0     0      0   0.37      0    0    0
1988/89/91/93  Bogosu                 0     0     0      0      0      0    0    0
1989/91/93    Cont Acceptances        0     0     0      0      0     0    0    0
GAGL                 2.92     0     0      0   2.92     0    0    0
1991          GHANAL                  0  0.44     0      0      0  0.44    0    0
2000          GMCC                    0  0.13      0     0      0      0    0    0
Ghana Leasing        0.48  0.73     0      0   0.48  0.73    0    0
1991/92       Hotel Inv. Ghana        0     0     0      0      0      0    0    0
1989/92       Wahome Steel         0.87     0     0      0   0.87      0    0    0
Total Portfolio:         6.63   1.3  0.98      0   6.63  1.17  0.98    0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2000 SSB                10000      0     0     0
2000 AEF Computer Sch     230      0     0     0
1995 AEF GHANA PACK    360        0      0     0
1999 AEF Garden Court    1500     0      0     0
1999 AEF Japan Motors    1500     0      0     0
2000 ELAC                   0   250      0     0
2000 GAGL IV-Restr          0      0   538     0
2000 Ghana Telecom      40000      0     0 60000
Total Pending Commitment:    53590   250   538 60000



39                              Annex G
GHANA
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
IMPACT INDICATORS
2000        2002
Domestic interest payments
( of recurrent expenditures)                              28.7        27.7
Health and education expenditures
(% of domestically-financed expenditures)                 32           36
Non-performing loans in banking system (% of total)        16
Private sector credit (% of total)                        38.2        50.0
Operating losses of four major public enterprises         7.2           0
(% of GDP) 1/
1/    Tema Oil Refinery, Electricity of Ghana, Volta River Authority and Ghana Water
Company Limited. Losses are measured excluding financial charges



40                              Annex H
GHANA
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the Credit       Two months
Concept review meeting                 May 3, 2001
ROC review meeting                     May 3, 2001
Appraisal                              May 6-31,2001
Negotiations                           June 25-26, 2001
Board Presentation                     July 26, 2001
Planned Effectiveness Date             August 30, 2001
Closing Date of Project                December 31, 2001



41                               Annex I
In case qf reply the                    <                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE
number and date of thlis                                               P. 0. BOXM40
letter should he quoted.                                               P. 0 ACCRA.
Our Ref. No ...........'......
Your Ref. N' .    ..
Tel.No....................RPUICOFCHANA  June 26, 2001
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... . ... ...............
Mr. Callisto Madavo,
Vice President,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433.
Dear Mr. Madavo,
Ghana: Third Economic Reform Support Operation
Letter of Development Policy
The Govenment of Ghana hereby requests the International Development
Association (IDA) to provide a credit in the sum of $110 million in support of Ghana's
on-going reforrn program. The central objectives of the Government's program for
2001/2002 are to:
(a)   restore macro-economic stability; and
(b)   lay the foundations for growth with equity.
To this end, the Government of Ghana will implement the policy measures contained in
the attached Letter of Development Policy, in parallel with measures agreed with the IMF
under the Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF).
2.    Please accept our assurance that the Govemment of Ghana is committed to
implementing these reforms.
Your sincerely,
Hon. Yaw Osafo-Maafo    )
Minister of Finance



42                             Annex I
GHANA: THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM POLICY OPERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Political background
1.  Presidential and parliamentary elections were successfully carried out in December
2000.  The result was the smooth transfer of political power to the current
government in January 2001. The elections were significant in two ways. It was the
first time since the independence of the country that a democratically elected
government was handing over power to another. Secondly, the elections were
conducted il a generally peaceful and fair atmosphere.
2.  The President outlined in his State of the Nation address to Parliament the policy of
his government. This included the commitment to building a property owning
democracy, strengthening the people's resolve for constitutional rule, ensuring the
rule of law and governing through democratic principles.  While declaring his
government's vision to bring about a "Golden Age of Business", the President also
emphasized the intention to protect the aged, the disadvantaged and the needy in
society.
3.  The Minister of Finance presented a budget statement to Parliament within the first
quarter of 2001. Measures were outlined in the budget to streamline the processes
of government to enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability. Some far-
reaching measures have already been taken in this direction.
Policy Background
4.  Upon assumption of office in January 2001, the government of President J. A Kufuor
quickly initiated a review of the state of the economy and the nation in general. The
review took into account the results obtained from the assessment of a set of
development plans incorporated in the document named, Ghana: Vision 2020.
Ghana under the previous government was unable to meet the major development
and growth targets set for the first phase of the Ghana: Vision 2020 (1996-2000).
This lack of positive results indicated the need to re-direct the Ghana Vision by
tackling the fundamental problems that prevented the attainment of development
plan objectives. The review also took into account the poverty status of the country
particularly the disturbing poverty status of five regions, specific food crop areas and
vulnerable groups. The results of the review showed that the state of the economy
and the nation was a desperate one at the time the new government took office.
5.  As a result, government initiated a set of actions to ensure the re-direction of the
economy to gain a sound foundation, stability and positive focus. The immediate
priorities defined to guide the actions of government included the following:
- Debt management;
-  Fiscal discipline;
- Agriculture (particularly food production); and
-  Long-term capital for small to medium scale enterprises.



43                             Annex I
6.  Underlying principles to guide the development of policy have been defined by the
new government to include zero tolerance for corruption, a participatory approach to
policy setting involving all stakeholders, acceleration of decentralization of
government and the strict adherence to global governance standards. In this regard,
the government of President Kufuor has defined a Code of Ethics to guide the
conduct and behaviour of members of the executive branch of government.
7.  The priorities, underlying principles, along with the Manifesto of the goveming party
form the basis for govemment policy. Government development policy will be
captured in detail in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
Macro-Economic Environment
The Economic Context
8.  The fiscal, monetary and external balance indicators of the economy of Ghana reveal
a difficult economic situation. The condition stemming largely from the cumulative
effects of poor fiscal discipline and a weak monetary stance was compounded by the
terms of trade shock of 1999/2000. Consequently, the nation is experiencing a
serious financial crisis as manifested by double digit inflation (41 percent end year), a
sharp deterioration in the nominal exchange rate, a dramatic upsurge in the public
debt (domestic and external debts of US$1.3 billion and US$5.9 billion respectively),
and a virtually exhausted foreign reserve account (estimated at 3 weeks of imports).
Furthermore, the risk exposure of the domestic banking system was magnified by the
deterioration in the finances of major public enterprises resulting from a failure to
adjust tariffs on petroleum products and utilities.
Economic Measures
9.  To address the dire economic situation, the government has instituted macro-
stabilization measures, to be applied by the end of 2001, to correct the fiscal
imbalance, restore its foreign exchange reserves to favourable levels, reduce
inflation and promote savings while at same time providing credit to the private
sector. In this context, the government policy thrust is on effective control of public
expenditures, increased revenue mobilization and reduced indebtedness of major
parastatals.
Fiscal Policy Measures
10. Notwithstanding the relatively high share of total revenue in the GDP (approximately
20 percent), poor expenditure management has contributed substantially to the
nation's fiscal disequilibrium. To control expenditures, government is committed to
freezing expenditures on goods and services at 2000 levels, holding the wage bill at
5.2 percent of GDP, undertaking comprehensive audits of the stock of the arrears of
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), and addressing weaknesses in the
public expenditure management system. Government is committed to completing the
audit exercise by end August 2001.



44                             Annex I
11. With respect to arrears, the stock of non-road arrears will be reduced by $200 billion
(¢145 billion has already been paid in the first quarter) while road arrears are
expected to reduce to 070 billion by end year 2001.
Public Expenditure Management
12. To strengthen the public expenditure management system, govemment has
established an Economic Policy Coordinating Committee (EPCC) to oversee the
forecasting and monitoring of commitments and cash transactions month by month.
To ensure effective coordination, the committee comprises of officials of the Ministry
of Finance (MOF), the Controller and Accountant General's Department (CAG), the
Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the main revenue agencies.
13. Based on the cash flow forecasts prepared for the EPCC, a recommended set of
quarterly expenditure ceiling for each Ministry, department and Agency (MDAs) will
be agreed by the Cabinet for the second half of 2001. A circular will be issued by the
Ministry of Finance to each MDA informing them of the cash ceiling agreed by
Ministers and notifying them that commitments are to be constrained within the cash
ceiling. The ceiling will be managed flexibly - with monthly targets (which allow for
small over - or- under shooting) and use of contingent reserves to finance
unexpected shortfalls in revenue emergency expenditure needs - in order to ensure
that the government's aggregate net borrowing ceiling are respected.
14. Performance against the ceiling will be monitored by the EPCC through specially
developed reports prepared by the CGAD on budget outcome, including cash
expenditures and commitments. Two sets of monthly reports will be provided with a
lag of four weeks after the end of the reporting periods. First, there will be a report
on aggregate budget cash revenue and expenditure outcomes and commitments
within a broad economic classification. Second, there will be a report on cash
expenditure and commitments by MDAS classified by function. Once these reports
achieve a satisfactory quality, they will be published in the government gazette.
15. The CAGD and the BOG will put in place actions to reconcile the aggregate monthly
budget reports with the banking data by the end of 2001.
16. To enable closer tracking of poverty-related expenditures, including those to be
funded under the enhanced HIPC Initiative, the government will focus on further
improvements in the expenditure monitoring system.
17. The role of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework is being reviewed in relation to
the role of planning agencies. Procedures for policy formulation and delivery from
the national to the local level are also being rationalised. At the sectoral level
expenditures will be prioritised in accordance with Ghana Poverty Reduction
Strategy. All these will be completed by end 2001.
Revenue Measures
18. Additional efforts have also been put in place to improve revenue mobilization and
close the fiscal financing gap for 2001. These measures are expected to yield about
2 percent of GDP in 2001 and about 3 percent of GDP on a full year basis. Key
aspects of these measures are a 15 percent ad valorem duty, as well as a specific



45                             Annex I
duty averaging about ¢200 per litre on petroleum products with effect from
September 1 2001, the imposition of a 2-year National Reconstruction Levy, at rates
of 10 percent on financial institutions and 2.5 percent on all other companies and an
increase in the withholding tax on suppliers of goods and services from 5 percent to
7.5 percent.
19. In addition to raising taxes, government is instituting corresponding measures to
strengthen the revenue collection agencies. To this end, the government has created
a national tax audit team to assist the revenue collection agencies. The customs
systems have been automated, control of CEPS warehouses improved and an office
of complaint on tax malfeasance and other related problems created to increase
compliance.
20. To improve revenue collection and minimize abuse, the government is currently
reviewing the tariff and exemption regimes currently in place and is taking measures
to improve the operational capacity of the revenue agencies. These measures
include making operational a Revenue Agencies (Governing) Board to act as the
central governing body of the national revenue agencies and streamlining
procedures for clearing goods from the port by consolidating the grant of permits in
one location to reduce transactions costs and time. Furthermore, to create a uniform
playing field for local pharmaceutical industries, importers of finished pharmaceutical
products are now required to pay 12.5 percent VAT on the c.i.f. value of their
products. Special drugs will however, be exempted as will retailers of pharmaceutical
products. Other measures include increasing fees and charges to reflect economic
rates, the appointment of a Games Commissioner to regulate the business of
lotteries and betting and the review of the tax system to generate greater efficiency in
collection, plug loopholes in the system and reduce revenue losses through evasion,
avoidance and corruption.
Monetary and Financial Sector Measures
21. Macro-stabilization requires that fiscal and monetary policies are complementary and
mutually reinforcing. Consequently, the govemment has instituted measures to
improve monetary policy with the objective of rebuilding the levels of official reserves,
achieving competitive real exchange rates, positive yet investment inducing real
interest rates and reducing the rate of inflation (by reducing the levels of credit to
government) and consequently inflationary expectations while allowing sufficient
credit to the private sector.
22. To reduce the tendency for government to unduly influence the Bank of Ghana
(BoG), the government has taken steps to review the draft Bank of Ghana Law with
the view to strengthening the independence of the BoG. In this context, the revised
draft law will be submitted to Parliament by August 30, 2001.
23. In addition, to eliminate the potential for conflict of interest, and thereby strengthen its
regulatory role, the BoG will divest its shareholdings in all financial institutions by end
December 2001.
24. Government will use open market operations to absorb excess liquidity, control
inflation and increase savings. The BoG plans to re-establish reforms in the
interbank foreign exchange market to remove distortions created by the current



46                             Annex I
system. To this end, the govemment has requested Technical Assistance from the
Fund, which is expected by end June. Furthermore the BoG intends to reduce direct
sales of foreign exchange to major parastatals and channel more foreign exchange
through the commercial banks.
25. To reduce the exposure of the banking system to non-performing loans, particularly
those contracted by parastatals, government has entered into discussions with banks
to improve their asset quality, risk monitoring and contingency for recapitalisation.
Concurrently, efforts are under way to put parastatals on a sound financial footing.
26. Furthermore, proceeds from the implementation of the divestiture process will be
devoted to reducing the domestic stock.
Debt
27. In the Budget Statement for 2001 the govemment announced its decision to join the
HIPC Initiative as a measure to reduce its debt burden and thereby release funds for
growth and poverty reduction. Government will shortly present application for HIPC
relief including specific plans for use of additional resources.
Domestic Debt
28. The government has initiated a strategy to restructure a significant portion of its
short-term domestic liability by converting it to medium term debt. A technical
committee that was set up is far advanced towards implementation of the strategy.
The government is aiming to convert at least 50% of the current 5.47 trillion cedis
short-term debt in 91-day Treasury Bills (as of February 28, 2001) within six months
to three-year bonds. The initial target buyers would be the banks and financial
institutions with statutory reserve requirements. To this end, a National Economic
Dialogue was initiated in May of 2001 as part of a consultative process to formulate a
comprehensive growth and poverty reduction strategy, which would inform the
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy.
29. Consistent with government commitment to a transparent strategy to tackle the debt
of parastatal enterprises, there will be a thorough financial and management audit of
certain institutions with the view of improving transparency, minimizing corruption
and ensuring accountability. Government will appoint a committee to restructure the
following institutions and their respective debt obligations after completion of the
financial audit:
* Ghana National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC)
* Bulk Oil Storage and Transport (BOST)
* Tema Oil Refinery
* Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) Limited
* Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL);
* Timber Export Development Board (TEDB);
* Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT);
* State Insurance Company (SIC) Limited; and
* Vanef/STC



47                             Annex I
Formulation of the Reform Agenda: the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, 2002 -
2004
30. Ghana initiated the preparation of a Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) in
June 2000 in response to the results of the fourth round of the Ghana Living
Standards Survey (GLSS 4), which, while recording a decline of about twelve
percentage points in incidence of poverty, yet revealed disturbing geographical
disparities. Five out of the 10 regions in Ghana had more than 40% of their
population living in poverty in 1999; the worst affected being the three northern
savannah regions (the Upper East, Upper West and Northern regions). In terms of
economic activity, poverty was shown to be highest among food crop farmers with
the contribution of this group to the national incidence of poverty much in excess of
their population. And though export farmers experienced the largest decline in
poverty, the levels were nevertheless still high among that group at 39 percent.
Poverty was also high among informal sector employees and the non-farm self-
employed.
31. The preparation of the GPRS for 2002-2004 is preceded by two other national
development strategies since the mid 1990s, namely, the Ghana Vision 2020: The
First Step (1996-2000) and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: 2000-
2002 (I-PRSP) the implementation of which met considerable challenges, in part due
to weak national ownership, unrealistic implementation strategies and inadequate
financing.
32. The preparation of the GPRS attempts to address these challenges, by instituting
broad-based consensus-building among government, civil society, the private sector
and development partners on key issues and programmes for accelerated and
sustained poverty reduction. It will also provide policy direction for NGO spending as
well as provide signals to attract private sector investment, consistent with growth
and poverty reduction. This is especially relevant in the context of generating
investments that will lead to opportunities for broad-based job creation and the
reduction of unemployment.
33. The goal of the GPRS is to achieve equitable economic growth and accelerated
poverty reduction within a sustained democracy. Measures to achieve the goal are
addressed under five themes:
-  Ensuring macro-economic stability
-  Facilitating increased production and gainful employment
-  Direct support for human resource development and basic services
-  Targeted support for the vulnerability and excluded
-  Enhancing good governance
34. Proposed measures have been validated through participatory poverty assessments
at community, district and regional levels, choices made by drafting/core teams with
balanced representation of Ghanaian society, a consensus building and
harmonisation workshop with balanced representation of Ghanaian society, political
direction, preliminary analysis of current government commitments and ongoing
programmes as well as the review and prioritisation at the National Economic
Dialogue, comprising representatives of development stakeholders in Ghana.



48                            Annex I
35. The timetable for completion of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy will be
coordinated with the budget and MTEF process. The Poverty Reduction Policy
Framework for the advice of MDA will be circulated together with the budget circular
and MTEF guidelines in July 2001. The full Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
comprising three years of fully costed poverty reduction measures, a debt
management policy and a long-term growth strategy will be completed by
September/October 2001.
Direction for Policy and Prospective Reforms, 2001-2002
36. Preparation of the GPRS and deliberations at the National Economic Dialogue have
informed the direction of policy for 2001-2002.
Governance and Public Sector Management Reform
37. The Government's policy stance on govemance is one of 'zero tolerance" for
corruption.
38. The partnership approach through the World Bank initiative has facilitated the work
of the Ghana Anti-Corruption Coalition (GACC), which supervised the conduct of the
Ghana Governance and Corruption Survey. The survey revealed that the majority of
Ghanaians see corruption as a major problem in both public and private sectors.
Public officials see low salaries and lack of transparency as a major cause of
corruption.
39. A Governance Workshop in Accra, Kumasi and Tamale is validating the Action Plan
prepared by the Ghana Anti-Corruption Coalition. Preparation of a public sector
code of conduct is on-going by government. The code of conduct is targeted for
implementation by 2002.
40. The National Institutional Renewal Programme and the Civil Service Performance
Improvement Plan have been reviewed and are on-going. The intention is to provide
a compact, professional and high quality public service. The current timetable is
planned to ensure significant impact by 2003. Studies have been completed on
seven of the eight Central Management Agencies (CMA). The study of Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development is on-going and will be completed by
September 2001.
41. Procurement reform is being tackled under the economic governance component of
PUFMARP 2 and the Ghana Anti-Corruption Coalition. The two reform interventions,
which jointly aim at very significant improvement to strengthen the system, will be
coordinated by the PUFMARP secretariat.
42. Government proposes to speed up the rationalization of subvented agencies with a
view to making the sector cost-effective and reducing the financial burden on
government budget. Studies have been completed on thirty-three of the 180
agencies. Following review of these studies, a number of agencies will be closed
down, restructured or commercialized.



49                             Annex 1
43. The restructuring, improved staffing, standards, methodologies for auditing and
relocation of the Internal Audit is planned within the External Audit Support Facility
under the funding agreement with the European Union. Government proposes to
establish an entirely independent Internal Audit Agency. Consultants were appointed
in April 2001. A decision on the future internal audit framework will be made by the
end of August 2001.
44. Plans are being formulated to strengthen the oversight functions of Parliament with
particular regard to finance and poverty reduction. An Office of Accountability is
currently being set up in the Office of the President. A Code of Ethics for Ministers is
being refined and will be completed within the next three months. A Parliamentary
Committee on Corruption is being formed and the Research Secretariat will be
functional in 2002.
Private Sector Development
45. The government has set for itself a goal of achieving a "golden age of business"
during the current decade. To this end, measures will be put in place to create an
enabling environment to assist businesses reduce transaction costs caused by
processes through government institutions.  Macro-economic problems of the
country in terms of interest rates, exchange rates stabilization, long-term capital
access, and tax incentives will also be addressed as discussed in the major section.
The fiscal and monetary lapses of the past will give way to a new era of discipline
and a fight against inflation to ease the high interest rate burden on the private
sector.
46. The government will actively promote non-traditional exports. Agriculture will be
given all the necessary financial and technical assistance and inputs to make Ghana
a leading agro-industrial country, whilst becoming self sufficient in terms of major
staples.   Infrastructure  development in telecommunications, energy, and
transportation are all being reviewed for the necessary improvement and investment
to make Ghana the choice for private investors wishing to do business.
47. It is the aim of govemment to make Ghana the 'Gateway' to the sub-region for
manufactured products through ECOWAS. Government is committed to making the
country the financial capital for the sub-region. However, all these objectives cannot
be attained quickly without developing the technological base and human resource
skills to support private sector development - a fact that will reflect in policy for the
medium term.
48. A Minister of State for Private Sector Development has been appointed to pursue
transparent policies, eliminate bureaucratic impediments and establish a positive
partnership between the government and the private sector in order to uplift business
activity in the economy.
49. The Ghana Free Zones Board will continue to provide off-site infrastructural facilities
to enhance attraction to investors. As part of the Ghana Trade and Investment
Gateway Programme two other sites have been acquired in Kumasi and Takoradi for
the development of free zones.



50                              Annex I
50. A public-private partnership for industrial development (PPPID) will be established in
2001 to address major constraints to industrial development.
Energy Policy
51. Government is working closely with its development partners to recast the country's
energy policy by the end of 2001. The new strategy for the energy sector will
address the future of Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) and Electricity Corporation of Ghana
(ECG) and the development of the West African Pipeline project.
52. Government's policy is to ensure the provision of reliable sources of energy supply at
full cost recovery and service delivery efficiency in the energy sector. To achieve
cost recovery prices and reduce the strain on government expenditure, the ex-
refinery prices for petroleum products were raised by 91 percent, effective February
2001. The government has announced the implementation of an automatic price
mechanism on June 30, 2001. The burden on the TOR operations on the budget will
be removed. Government plans to assume TOR's debt attributable to the non-
adjustment of prices in 2000 (about 1.9 trillion) and is working out details for the
conversion of this amount into a medium term bond by end August 2001.
53. The Public Utilities Regulatory Commission's (PURC) will implement a plan during
the period to institute automatic tariff adjustment mechanisms in order to attain full
cost recovery.  A draft transitional plan by PURC was discussed during a
stakeholder's workshop on June 21, 2001. Recommendation was made to move
forward by one year the target date for tariffs to reach economic levels to December
31, 2002. The economic levels proposed are necessary to attract private sector
participation in the energy sector and ensure better investment cost programming
than the current ad hoc price increases that destabilize business plans.
54. With regard to the ECG, government has decided to proceed with a competitive
selection process of a transaction adviser. Government will issue the request for
proposals by June 30, 2001 and select a transactions adviser by October 2001. The
target date to complete divestiture is by 2003.
55. The restructuring plan for Volta River Authority (VRA) including the unbundling of
transmission and generation functions will be completed by October 2002. Selection
of a consultant to assist with valuation of transmission assets is currently in progress.
The electricity regulations for the interconnected grid are being reviewed and will be
re-submitted to Parliament by end-2001.
56. During the period, the West Africa Gas Pipeline project will be given full support to
meet targets towards its implementation. Agreements for investment, pricing and
distribution of the end product will be made to guarantee orderly implementation.
57. Divestiture activities related to state-owned enterprises engaged in the energy sector
will be planned in conjunction with the overall divestiture strategy. Government has
taken full note of the social consequences of possible private participation in this
sector and intends to commit to goals and targets that can be achieved over the 12
to 18 month period. These goals and targets will be determined in the divestiture
strategy to be launched in September 2001.



51                             Annex I
Financial Sector
58. The financial sector policy is aimed at strengthening of institutions and providing
opportunities to increase the domestic savings and investment rate.   As
recommended by the National Economic Dialogue, opportunities will be explored to
provide additional pension products in addition to the SSNIT pension scheme. A
study will be initiated in October 2001, to explore the feasibility of introducing a
voluntary savings and investment scheme linked to pensions. The Securities &
Exchange Commission and the Ghana Stock Exchange will be encouraged to
facilitate the introduction of mutual funds and unit trust schemes by the end of 2002.
59. Government, following a Cabinet decision in April 2001, re-launched the programme
of divestiture of the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB). Plans are to execute a
timetable of actions and select a preferred bidder by December 2001. Government
has also re-advertised the sale of National Investment Bank (NIB).
Divestiture
60. Government is committed to pursuing a divestiture strategy that will ensure greater
efficiency in services delivered by state-owned enterprises to release needed funds
to support the domestic debt reduction initiative and that will support government
programmes. Consistent with this objective, the divestiture programme will be re-
launched in September 2001 following the re-constitution of the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC) by July 2001. An audit of DIC's recent asset sales
is also being conducted and will be completed by August 2001.
61. During 2001, privatisation efforts are expected to yield approximately US$50 million
by divesting government shares in companies such as Ghana Telecom, Coca-Cola,
Westel, Aluworks, Ghana Consolidated Diamonds, Ghana Oil Palm Development
Corporation, Benso Oil Palm Plantation, Twifo Oil Palm Plantation and Tema Steel
Company Ltd.
62. A careful review will also be undertaken of companies to be divested within the 2001-
2004 period that can be successfully processed efficiently and profitably.
Government will review and implement the revised divestiture procedures to ensure
transparency.
Poverty and Human Development
63.  Accelerating the reduction of poverty and human development is a key objective of
Government. In this regard, the GPRS will ensure increased and more efficient
social sector spending and better targeting of resources based on the results of the
fourth round of the Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS 4). It will also require
institutional reorganisation to ensure better outcomes.
64.  Within the current year, expenditure on education and health will be increased from
32% (in 2000) to 36% of the domestic primary expenditure. About 60% of social
sector spending is earmarked for basic education, primary health care and rural
water programmes.



52                             Annex I
65.  Institutional gaps will be corrected to improve service delivery within the period. The
Ministry of Health will redefine its role in stewardship, regulation and performance
contracting in order to achieve the above objective.
66.  In addition to increased social sector spending and management reforms, a policy
on cross-subsidies in the consumption of petroleum and utilities will be
implemented in favour of the poor. Government's incomes policy will also ensure
that within the limited resources available for pay increases, the lower paid will
benefit most through skewing the increases towards the lower ends of the salary
structure.
67.  In the medium term, social sector spending will be increased further and better
targeted as part of the GPRS. The objective will be to bridge gaps in access to
quality basic and technical education and primary health care between the poorer
northern and southern sections of the country and to accelerate the pace of reforms
in tertiary education. Improved delivery of basic education and primary health care
will be in the context of further decentralisation of the Ghana Education Service and
the Ghana Health Service, strengthening and increasing responsibilities to District
Assemblies.
68.  The health sector will undergo considerable reforms in the medium term to bring
down high levels of maternal and under five mortality and the incidence of
communicable diseases, particularly malaria, tuberculosis and guinea worm. In this
regard, the Ghana Health Service and Teaching hospitals will be given greater
autonomy in service delivery. Intersectoral collaboration and partnerships with
private providers will also be instituted to enhance service delivery. Measures to
retain and develop staff will be implemented. The current system of cash upfront
payment of user fees will be replaced with a national and private health insurance
health insurance schemes.
69.  The education sector will work towards increasing the Gross Enrolment Ratio
(GER) of primary education from 78% to 82% by 2004, and the GER for Junior
Secondary School from 58% to 62%. This will be achieved through an improved
enrolment drive for girls, rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, some construction
and provision of learning and teaching aids.  On vocational and technical
education, the linkage between education, training and employment will be
strengthened. Private participation in the provision of tertiary education will be
promoted in the medium term.
HIV/AIDS
70. A National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework for Ghana has been formulated in
recognition of the developmental relevance of the disease. A multi-sectoral approach
is being used to bring the rapid spread of HIV/AIDS under control during the period.
This will include the intensification of publicity campaigns, increasing the number of
voluntary testing and counselling centres, increasing the effectiveness and coverage
of treatment services and reducing the prevalence of STDs



53                              Annex I
Targeted programmes
71. Administration of targeted programmes to assist the poor will be improved in the
current year.  Implementation of the health user fee exemption policy will be
improved through regular transfer of resources to local level facilities. Management
of other ongoing targeted programmes such as the Social Investment Fund and the
Village Infrastructure Project will be enhanced to ensure achievement of objectives.
Decentralisation
72. Legislation related to decentralisation will be harmonised and strengthened. It is
intended fully to implement decentralization policies by 2004. This will include the
empowerment of District Assemblies to decide on development priorities and
investment strategies. Within the framework of national priorities. Districts will
contribute to national priorities through public participatory techniques and policies
enshrined in District development plans.
73. By 2004, the Government intends to empower District Assemblies to select
programmes and projects within targeted sectoral, sub-sectoral allocations and
locational investment allocations for implementation as District level projects. These
measures will be accompanied by the introduction of the District Composite Budget
by 2004 following a pilot project in twenty-five Districts in 2003. Capacity building of
District Assembly departments is currently being carried out through a number of
donor-assisted programmes. This will be conducted and progressively intensified
during the period 2002 to 2004 with particular reference to capacity building for
Planning and Coordinating Units as well as other offices.
74. Other measures to achieve decentralization of human resource management and
resource allocation responsibilities include the establishment of District Assemblies
as District education Authorities with the transfer of power over basic education from
the Ghana Education Service to the Assemblies. Health service delivery will be
further decentralized by the formation of Regional Health Authorities and the greater
involvement of District Assemblies and Non-governmental Organisations at the local
level.
75. The current feeder road programme is District Assembly and community driven in
respect of locating and prioritising projects and this participatory approach will be
adopted throughout.
76. There will also be greater commitment to wider dissemination of the Auditor
General's report on the utilisation of the funds allocated to District Assemblies.
Agriculture
Cocoa
77. A medium term strategy has been developed through broad consultations with
stakeholders in the cocoa sector. The objectives of the strategy are to ensure
increased and sustainable production, enhanced farmers incomes and the
maintenance of quality. These are to be achieved through more effective internal
and external marketing, adequate incentive for farmers through adjustments in the



54                             Annex I
producer price, streamlining cocoa research and extension services and making the
operations of the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) more efficient.  Cocoa
production is projected to increase from 335,000mt to about 500,000mt by 2004/5.
78. The main elements of the strategy include:
a. Raising the producer price from 65% of the FOB price in 2000/2001 and
progressively increasing it to 70% of the FOB by the year 2004(5. The
government's share of the cocoa price will be set at a specific level (flat or
rate) to be paid on all exports and on sales to local processors.
b. The government's revenue from cocoa will be made consistent with the
producer pricing policy to ensure that the farmer gets a minimum of 70
percent of the f.o.b. price by 200415.
Year         2000101    2001102   2002/03    2003104   2004105
Production   65%        67%        68%        69%       70%
price
c. Partial liberalisation of external marketing - allowing qualified Licensed
Buying Companies (LBCs) to export 30% of their domestic purchases starting
with the 2000/2001 crop season, which starts from October 2001.
d. Deepening competition in internal marketing by giving all LBCs equal access
to Cocobod's warehousing and crop financing facilities.
e. Enforcing the current regulations and laws applying to the repatriation of
cocoa export earnings, and applying the current export retention of 2%
enjoyed by Cocoa Marketing Company to all cocoa exporters
f. Discontinuance of price discounts on cocoa supplied to domestic producers,
allowing processors to buy cocoa at f.o.b. prices, import low grade and
cheaper cocoa only for purposes of processing and encouraging local
processing through non-price incentives. The Ministry of Finance will verify
this on a regular basis.
g. Assisting farmers to rehabilitate and replant old abandoned and destroyed
farms with high yielding hybrid varieties and mass spraying of cocoa farms
beginning before the 2001/2002 season.
79. Based on the Cocoa Sector Strategy document, Cocobod has issued Regulations
and Guidelines for the extemal marketing of Cocoa.
80. The Cocoa Sector Marketing Committee (COSMARC) has been reconstituted and
has responsibility for assessment and recommendation of applicants to Cocobod for
licensing of LBCs in external marketing. A public announcement has been made.
Following a review of the applications received in accordance with the main criteria
for licensing export companies, as provided in the Regulations, three LBCs have
been provided export licensing for the 2001/02 season provided they meet within



55                              Annex I
three months the remaining criteria (adequate personnel, submission of financial
information and establishment of trading room).
Non Cocoa
81. To realize the government's policy of increasing agricultural sector growth to at least
6 percent per annum, an Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Development Strategy
(AAGDS) has been formulated.  The AAGDS is based on private sector led
investments in agriculture, devolution of significant responsibilities from central
government to district assemblies and the development of a supportive
macroeconomic framework.
82. While the AAGDS provides the broad framework for agricultural development, the
Agricultural Service Sector Investment Programme (AgSSIP) constitutes the main
vehicle for implementing the AAGDS. AgSSIP is expected to contribute
immeasurably to broad-based poverty reduction by supporting technological change
and innovation in crop, livestock, fisheries and forestry production as well as in agro-
processing.
83. The AgSSIP programme will contribute to broad based development and poverty
reduction by supporting agricultural growth through improvements in the quality of
service delivery, provision of mechanisms for the sustainable use of land and proving
better incomes opportunities not only for small holders but others who can be
engaged in farm work, marketing, processing, transport and export.
84. Furthermore, to leverage producers in their negotiations with institutions that regulate
access to markets and agricultural inputs, AgSSIP will focus on strengthening
producer organizations such as farmer groups and cooperatives. It is anticipated that
this approach will also benefit rural women who make up over 60 percent of the
farming population.
85. In addition, AgSSIP will also increase agricultural productivity by upgrading the skills
of the staff of institutions including the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Centre for
Scientific and Industrial Research and the Department of Cooperatives whose
activities impinge on the performance of the agricultural sector.
86. Agricultural policy will also focus on technological support to farmers and fishermen
to improve performance in the production, processing and marketing of staples,
particularly rice, cassava, maize and yams. Rice production will in particular be
stepped up to cut down importation by 30% during the period. A programme of
purchasing buffer stocks for rice and maize to reduce post harvest losses will also be
pursued. Feasibility studies on re-launching the sugar industry will be completed.
The objective will be to produce at least 25% of the country's sugar requirements by
2003.
87. To ensure proper focus in the areas of land availability, financial resources and
investment and increased yields and productivity in agriculture, a major
recommendation made at the National Economic Dialogue was to institute an
Agriculture Commission. This Commission will be set up by December 2001.



56                             Annex I
Land Administration
88. Open market or negotiated land values will determine prices for private land
transactions, including any land transactions made in accordance with customary
practice or common law. In general, land use involving mining, other extractive
industries, mechanized agriculture, cattle ranching, dairy farming and manufacturing
industry will have to conform to prescribed environmental conservation principles and
guidelines.
89. When necessary, Government may intermediate in facilitating investors' access to
land owned by stools, skins, clans, families or individuals.
Feeder Roads
90. There are about 24,000km of feeder roads in existence. Only 40% (9,080km) of the
feeder road network can be classified as "good" with 25% (5,675km) 'fair" and 35%
(7,945km) "poor". About 5,500km of feeder roads also exist in the form of tracks
which have not been engineered. Ninety percent of farm produce is head-loaded at
the village level, mainly by women and children. Thus, general lack of farm-to-village
access roads and intermediate means of transport impose significant drudgery on
rural populations, especially women and children and cause post harvest losses. To
improve rural communications, the strategy will be devolving funds and responsibility
for feeder roads to Districts.
91. The Village Infrastructure Project (VIP), whose implementation started in the fourth
quarter of 1998, will finance the rehabilitation of at least 1,300km of feeder roads and
spot improvements. The project will also finance improvements in intermediate
means of transport to substitute for head loading.
Emergency Social Relief
92. Government is committed to providing Emergency Social Relief to the five poverty
endemic regions, the food crop growing areas and vulnerable groups nationally to
reduce the impact of the programmes to be implemented to improve and stabilise the
macro economic situation.
93. An Emergency Social Relief Committee will be constituted and inaugurated by the
President to finalise the definition of the specific relief activities for each region by
July 2001. Actual relief will be implemented during the second half of 2001 and the
2002-2004 initial implementation period of the GPRS.
Monitoring and Evaluation
94. Effective monitoring and evaluation of policies, programmes and projects will be
introduced to ensure effective utilization of resources and cost effectiveness. A
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system is being established at the
National Development Planning Commission including the design of purpose made
software. The capacity of communities and civil society organisation will be
enhanced to ensure meaningful participation in the monitoring of performance at
national and local levels including poverty reduction measures. The capacity of social



57                            Annex I
partners to access and utilize information on public policy and management
generally will be enhanced.
95. In order to better incorporate Civil Society Organisations (CSO) into national policy
formulation, delivery and monitoring, it is intended to establish institutional structures
to facilitate a permanent dialogue between government and CSO. Govemment will
encourage discussions on subjects of national interest and the results of the national
Economic Dialogue. A secretariat will be set up by August 2001, to ensure effective
follow-up and monitoring of the implementations of the recommendations from the
National economic Dialogue. Districts will be required to carry out community
dialogues on developmental and budget issues as a permanent feature of
govemance by 2003.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23606
3'                              2-                                                                0 D-                              1-                                 2'
BURKINA FASO
jB    Hom'le    .G9,                               Nvogi                        g           -
{ Jz   '  ~ ~~~             )--vBOLBOGATA1sGAt                        
:P       W  Btt dr                                  ;                                     GHANA
0                                                                                     -A \ . Bulengo  ..    X  <  /   O  -. Korego  . '         PRIMARY ROADS                     ID
....... .....   SECONDARY ROADS
TERTIARY ROADS
9   I                          Doboy  +       _         FTAALE /       ~           \w   g<< b                           RAILWAYS
J,i Zobzu~gu  .     ®    (i) REGION HEADQUARTERS
h Ch=rche  J5/t   - .   -             Busunu-- 4    _ /\  ~tCh=mbulgu                        2          J           *       NATIONAL CAPITAL
.REGION BOUNDARIES                        9
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_COT\E}                                                          4       )        t)             i  @>,  8;\                    The  boundaries, colors,
COTE   \  \  >   <          tp       )   /      tl  . <                EF        \    '          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominations and  any
other information shoAm
on  this map  do  not
DbIVOIRE                                                                                                               I             Iply, on  the part of
The World Bash Group,
~~hrdi, ~~~~any judgment on the legal
status of any territory,
tombo,                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any  endorsement
i Dmp./             itm-  .  g \, ) or acceptance of such
a'          I~~~~ boundaries.                                                                                                                                                B
0   10  20   30  sO  5O MLES
!    .   Bok                                         X            t        1           (g            O    20    4    60   B0 KILDMEORS
{{   i                 <    .            :Ejur=    - '             ' .,                 \+    (           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:E
KMS "' 8"  '  <                .          =   X             , t v g 2  Gu w=tTOGO
B\bon,                                              /                EO\
Ob- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ S GABIAo-                                               OnnC
E.ch5                                                                                                                       on ..    - -,  ,4"
VIEST-p                                                                                            R     C. _
(P-ete '.                                                                                                \,aACRA  <   / <
<  0,   ,, tMp=bb=      ,        ',J_-'CAPE ~~~~~~~COAST                                             SEN'E G>'-                ,     NIE        {    HA
~~~~~~~SEK014Di                                                                                        LE.<-' ;A DASO
GGULF OF GUINEA                               0tEnIu  0                     _2 (, TECE50L
a-                               2'                                 1'                               r7                                 1.        
I                                                                               I
FEBRUARY 1995



