                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                      Report No: 26214

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (TF-26516; IDA-35530; IDA-35531; TF-50290)

                                          ON A

                                 LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$110 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                         FOR A

                THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT




                                      June 27, 2003




Poverty Reduction Economic Management Unit
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Cedi (c)
                      c7,200 (March 2001) = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 1.00 = c8,588 (March 2003)

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1-     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOG                            Bank of Ghana
CAS                            Country Assistance Strategy
CG                            Consultative Group
COCOBOD                       Cocoa Board
DIC                           Divestiture Implementation Committee
ECG                           Electricity Corporation of Ghana
ERSO                          Economic Reform Support Operation
ERSO II                       Second Economic Reform Support Operation
GCB                           Ghana Commercial Bank
GPRSP                         Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GOG                           Government of Ghana
HIPC                          Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
IDA                           International Development Association
IMF                           International Monetary Fund
LBC                           Licensed Buying Company
LDP                           Letter of Development Policy
MTEF                          Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NIB                           National Investment Bank
NTEs                          Non-Traditional Exports
PE                            Public Enterprise
PR                            President's Report
PRGF                          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PUFMARP                       Public Financial Management Reform Project
PSMR                          Public Sector Management Reform Project
PURC                          Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
SDR                           Special Drawing Rights
TOR                           Tema Oil Refinery
VAT                           Value-Added Tax
VRA                            Volta River Authority




                            Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Director       Mats Karlsson
                          Sector Manager        Emmanuel Akpa
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Rene Bonnel

                                            GHANA
             THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPEATION CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Government Comments                                                     24

Project ID: P050619                                                      Project Name: ERSO III
Team Leader: Rene Bonnel                                                 TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: ERSO III                                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-26516; IDA-35530;
                                                                                                     IDA-35531; TF-50290
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (50%); Banking (30%); Crops
                            (10%); General industry and trade sector (5%); Health (5%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Export
                            development and competitiveness (P); Fighting communicable
                            diseases (S); Education for all (S); Tax policy and administration (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/30/2001                                        Effective: 08/06/2001              08/06/2001
   Appraisal:    05/14/2001                                            MTR:                           11/01/2003
    Approval:    07/26/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Ghana/Government /Ministry of Finance and Economic
                                           Development
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Akpa                                  Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:             René Bonnel
ICR Primary Author:             Karen Hendrixson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:N

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Third Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO III) was designed to support the restoration of
macroeconomic stability and market confidence, allowing the newly elected Government to develop its
agenda of reform for accelerated growth and poverty reduction over the longer term through a broad-based
consultative process with the civil society and key stakeholders. This one-tranche, SDR 87.7 million
(US$110 million equivalent) operation was disbursed upon effectiveness on August 6, 2001.

The objectives and design of ERSO III must be viewed in the broader context of Ghana's economic reform
program. Following the launching of the Economic Recovery Program in 1983, the country's profound
economic decline was reversed and replaced by sustained output growth and increased private sector
activity and investment. In parallel with reforms, important political reforms were also adopted, moving
the country to a firmly democratic form of Government. However, progress was periodically interrupted by
episodes of weak macroeconomic management associated with the electoral cycle, occurring in 1992, 1996
and 2000.

Bank support was particularly important in correcting the macroeconomic imbalances that were associated
with the 1996 elections. Measures were adopted in 1997 to restore macroeconomic instability and the
Government began to focus again on structural reforms. On this basis, IDA approved a one-tranche
adjustment credit, the Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) in 1998.

By mid-1999, macroeconomic stability had improved. The rate of inflation had fallen to below 10 percent;
the VAT had been successfully re-introduced; a number of insolvent banks were closed; and the
Government had reached a consensus with stakeholders on the strategy for further liberalizing the cocoa
sector. Following a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF in
May 1999, IDA approved a second ERSO credit, in July 1999, which focused on a program of continued
reforms in the cocoa, energy and banking sectors.

Beginning in the latter half of 1999, Ghana suffered a major terms of trade shock with cocoa prices falling
to 30-year lows and oil prices tripling, and macroeconomic performance started to worsen. In 2000, both
macroeconomic management and the implementation of the ERSO II reform program came to a standstill
during the run-up to the December elections.       Despite shortfalls in external program assistance and
privatization receipts, the Government did not adjust utility and petroleum prices to reflect the oil price and
exchange rate changes, resulting in large fiscal and quasi-fiscal imbalances. Net domestic borrowing to
finance the budget deficit rose to 8.5 percent of GDP in 2000, raising the domestic debt to nearly 29
percent of GDP.      Domestic and external arrears grew as well, and contingent liabilities by public
enterprises in the energy sector rose to approximately 8 percent of GDP. Consequently, all the fiscal and
monetary quantitative performance criteria for December under Ghana's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF were missed.

The design of ERSO III must be therefore viewed in the broad context of the political and economic
challenges that faced the government that took office in January 2001. The first peaceful democratic
transfer of power in 21 years brought with it the expectation that substantial changes in governance and
economic management would be implemented. For the immediate future, the most pressing issue was the
restoration of macroeconomic stability. The inflation rate had reached 40.5 percent by end-2001, external
reserves were less than one month of imports and the exchange rate had declined by nearly 50 percent in
foreign currency terms.




                                                   - 2 -

Accordingly, ERSO III was designed to support the political and economic transition facing Ghana in
2001. By providing needed assistance to meet the country's exceptional financing requirements for the
year, the Credit's purpose was threefold: (i) restore macroeconomic stability; (ii) support the resumption of
reforms started by the previous Government under ERSO II, which had languished in the run up to the
2000 elections; and, (iii) support the development of the Government's emerging agenda of reforms for
accelerated growth and poverty reduction.

Implementation of the ERSO III was part of a broader package of external assistance that included the
resumption of IMF assistance, following the completion of the third review under the PRGF arrangement,
and expected access to debt relief following the endorsement by the IMF and Bank Boards that Ghana was
eligible for debt relief under the enhanced HIPC facility.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Credit's objective was not revised. The closing date for the Credit was extended by one year to
December 31, 2002 following receipt of an IDA refinancing flow.

3.3 Original Components:
The reforms to be implemented under ERSO III focused on restoring macroeconomic stability; completing
some of the unfinished structural reforms remaining from ERSO II; and developing Ghana's Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS).
Restoration of Macroeconomic Stability. This component sought to restore macroeconomic stability and
implement strict governance through the following measures: (i) reducing domestic and foreign debt
burden by curtailing the fiscal deficit and seeking debt relief under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative; (ii) strengthening the management and control of public expenditures,
including through improved governance; and (iii) eliminating the deficit of key enterprises.

The main macroeconomic objectives of the ERSO III program were to (i) accelerate real GDP growth to
about 5 percent over the medium-term; (ii) reduce inflation from 45 percent in early 2001 to single digits by
2003; and (iii) rebuild the stock of gross international reserves to 2-3 months of imports. Fiscal policies
were to focus on reducing the Government's net domestic borrowing requirement, thereby reducing
pressures on interest rates and freeing resources in the banking system for private sector credit.       The
Government's external debt burden was to be addressed by seeking relief under the HIPC Initiative.

Restarting of Structural Reform. This component was aimed at reinvigorating the reform process in the
area of budgetary management, public enterprise divestiture, banking sector reform, and cocoa export
marketing.

Budgetary Management: To restore macroeconomic stability and accelerate growth and poverty reduction,
the Government of Ghana (GOG) planned to tighten fiscal policy by limiting budgetary expenditures and
improving public expenditure management. Achievement of the latter two objectives was supported by
technical assistance provided through two IDA projects, namely the Public Financial Management Reform
Project and the Public Sector Management Reform Project as well as by IMF technical assistance,
including an IMF resident fiscal adviser.

Public Enterprise Divestiture: The Government's divestiture program was expected to result in the
divestiture of shares in 10 state-owned companies --in addition to the divestiture of GCB and ECG, which
was supported by ERSO II-- yielding a total of US$50 million in revenue. To this end, the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC) was reorganized, and a new strategy was to be developed by September




                                                     - 3 -

2001.

Financial Sector Reform: The Government pledged to continue with a number of financial sector reforms
that were part of the previous adjustment operation (ERSO II) framework. These included: (i) relaunch
the divestiture of the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) and National Investment Bank (NIB); (2) improve
supervision and regulation of the banking sector through legislation to strengthen the supervisory powers of
the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and improve regulation of the sector; and (3) divestiture by the BOG of all its
shareholdings in financial institutions. In addition, the Government recognized that the excessive run-up in
debt held by the state-owned Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) -- which resulted from the previous Government's
failure to adjust petroleum prices upward in response to the sharp oil price increases and exchange rate
devaluation in 1999-2000 ­ was destabilizing the financial sector, and pledged to take over or restructure
that debt.

Cocoa Export Marketing: The new Government reaffirmed its commitment to implement the medium-term
strategy for the cocoa sector which had been developed during an extensive participatory process in 1998.
The key objectives of this strategy were to: (i) increase the producer price from 65 percent of the f.o.b.
price in the 2000/2001 crop season to 70 percent by 2004; (ii) reduce the cocoa export tax to 15 percent of
the f.o.b. prices by the year 2004/5; (iii) partially liberalize external marketing by allowing qualifying local
buying companies (LBCs) to export 30 percent of their purchases, beginning in the 2000/2001 crop season;
(iv) deepen internal marketing competition by giving LBCs equal access to Cocobod's warehousing and
crop financing facilities; and (v) discontinue price discounts given to local cocoa processors.

Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy: The final component sought to support the preparation of the GPRS
in the context of a broad participatory consultation process.           A draft report would be prepared for
discussion with stakeholders during the second half of 2001 and the GPRS would be integrated with the
annual budget, starting in 2002.

The design of these three components was clearly linked to the Credit objectives described above.
Restoration of macroeconomic stability was necessary to support economic growth and poverty reduction.
Improved budgetary management would facilitate the reduction of the fiscal deficit, while public enterprise
divestiture would improve resource allocation, contribute to government revenues, and provide
opportunities for the increased private investment needed for growth. Improved efficiency in the financial
sector would aid private sector growth, and cocoa sector reforms would improve the sector's
competitiveness and raise farmers' incomes, thereby directly contributing to poverty reduction. Finally, the
design and implementation of the GPRS would set in place those measures needed to ensure a successful
reduction in poverty over the medium-term.

3.4 Revised Components:
No revision occurred in the Credit's components.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. The credit was supportive of the Government's
priorities, consistent with the CAS objectives and closely linked to the IMF programs. ERSO III was
designed as a bridging operation to provide financial support to the new Government while it was preparing
a reform program aimed at addressing the economic mismanagement it faced. This approach was justified
by the strong signals from the new Government that they would manage the economy differently. This



                                                        - 4 -

Government had adopted a number of actions, which demonstrated its commitment to restore
macroeconomic stability and implement structural reforms. These measures included: (i) increase in the
price of petroleum by 91 percent in February; increase in water and electricity tariffs in May by 95 and 96
percent respectively, to cover operating costs; (ii) agreement on an emergency action plan for controlling
budgetary expenditures at the commitment level and monitoring the execution of the budget; and (iii) broad
consultation with civil society on a revised reform agenda for growth and poverty reduction in April 2001.

In addition, the Government had reached agreement with the Fund on a PRGF arrangement (approved in
May 2001); the independent Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC), which was charged with
setting utility tariffs, drafted a transitional plan to adjust tariff rates to reach economic levels by end-2002
and automatically adjust future tariffs in coordination with exchange rate and oil import price movements;
and provisional export licenses were issued to three qualifying LBCs in June 2001.                      Finally, the
Government had pledged to create a "golden age of business" in Ghana and demonstrated that it was going
to implement a policy of zero tolerance for corruption. These measures were interpreted as signs of the
Government's strong commitment to reform. Nonetheless, it was clearly recognized that the ERSO III
operation was exceptional and risky as the GOG might not be able to sustain its reform momentum or
political instability could arise.

ERSO III was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana, approved on
March 30, 2000, which envisioned two adjustment operations for FY01-03. The key goal of the CAS was
to support efforts to reduce poverty; this was fully consistent with ERSO III's focus on developing the
GPRS.      More specifically, key elements of the Bank's CAS were to raise the economy's growth rate,
redefine the role of the state, and implement the Government's strategy more effectively on the ground.
These elements were consistent with the new Government's economic, social, and governance policies. The
CAS also expressed concern with the pace of reform in the areas of public sector management,
privatization and the role of the private sector, and decentralization, which were all areas where the new
Government promised to accelerate the pace of reform.

Quality of the Design. An adjustment credit was appropriately selected as the mechanism for supporting
the incoming Government's reforms. Although an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper had been
completed in 1999 and the preparation of a full PRSP was already underway, an adjustment credit, rather
than a Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) was appropriately selected as the appropriate mechanism
for meeting Ghana's financing requirements. This approach enabled the new Government to review the
previously proposed growth and poverty strategy, develop its own priorities and consult broadly with civil
society before commencing with a fully developed growth and poverty reduction strategy. Once this
strategy would be fully developed, it was anticipated that subsequent adjustment credits would be extended
in the form of a series of one-tranche operation linked to a PRSC.

Although consideration was given to tranching the Credit, ERSO III was designed as a one-tranche
operation owing to the operation's emergency nature. The immediate priority was to reduce the large
domestic and external financial gaps that were looming at the beginning of 2001 and could evolve into an
inflationary spiral. By designing the operation as a one-tranche credit, the adjustment credit could be
prepared and disbursed quickly, which was essential for stabilizing the exchange rate, reducing inflation
and restoring market confidence in the economy. In lieu of conditionalities, six triggers were developed,
based on the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), to identify areas of reform where policy
developments were expected before further program support would be available from the Bank. These
triggers were: (i) preparation of an Action Plan for implementing the GPRS and integrating the GPRS into the
annual budget; (ii) decentralization of functions to the District Assemblies; (iii) continued implementation of the
restructuring plan for the energy sector, including raising tariffs to economic levels and progress in implementing



                                                         - 5 -

a restructuring plan for the VRA and ECG; (iv) enhanced governance, including implementation of a National
Anti-Corruption Plan; (v) strengthened monitoring and evaluation by key stakeholders and civil society; and (vi)
promotion of non-traditional exports (NTEs) by formulating a NTE growth strategy.   In addition, an upcoming
HIPC decision point in early 2002 would enable the Bank to evaluate progress in the program.

The President's Report correctly identified that ERSO III was a high risk operation for three reasons: (i)
the Government's short track record and the possibility that its political will to implement difficult
decisions might dwindle: (ii) capacity constraints could affect implementation, especially as a number of
senior management and mid-level staff had been removed at most public institutions as a result of the
Government's focus on good governance; and (iii) Ghana's reliance on gold and cocoa exports made the
economy highly vulnerable to terms of trade shocks. Mitigating factors were identified for each risk. To
counteract the potential loss of government will, the President's Report pointed to the Government's
decisive up-front action to restore macroeconomic stability and re-launch the reform program; its careful
commitment only to undertake those actions seen as politically "doable;" and the launching of a national
participatory dialogue for the GPRS as way to build consensus on the need for adjustment over the
medium-term. To overcome implementation capacity constraints, the Government was recruiting new
staff and trying to attract Ghanaians living overseas. Finally, the possibility of terms of trade shock was
evaluated as low, as cocoa and gold prices were expected to continue to recover, while anticipated HIPC
relief and strong donor support for the new Government would both reduce Ghana's debt service payments
and build external reserves, thereby increasing the country's capacity to adjust to external shocks.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall Outcome. The Credit is judged to be marginally satisfactory as it achieved most of its objectives,
principally a turnaround in macroeconomic performance in 2001; a relative improvement in a number of
the Credit's impact indicators between 2000 and 2002; pricing reform in the cocoa sector; and some
strengthening of the financial sector. Nonetheless, it must be noted that the Credit is judged to be only
marginally satisfactory, as a number of objectives were achieved only partially or after considerable delay,
and within each broad components there were both satisfactory and unsatisfactory outcomes.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Restoration of Macroeconomic Stability

The objectives of this component were broadly achieved and this component is rated satisfactory. This
component sought to restore macroeconomic stability by reducing the domestic and foreign debt burden;
strengthening public expenditure management; and eliminating the deficit of key enterprises.

Macroeconomic performance under ERSO III: Overall macroeconomic performance is rated satisfactory.
By end-2002, the GOG had made substantial progress in restoring growth and macroeconomic stability
despite slippages in a number of areas. Results can be summarized as follows: (i) annual GDP growth
rose from 3.7 percent in 2000 to 4.2 percent in 2001 and 4.5 percent in 2002; (ii) the overall fiscal balance
(including grants and after domestic arrears clearance) fell from 9.7 percent of GDP in 2000 to 6.8 percent
of GDP in 2002; (iii) the rate of inflation declined from 40.5 percent to 13 percent over the same period;
(iv) the deficit of the current account of the balance of payments (including grants) (-8.6 percent of GDP in
2000) was replaced by a surplus (0.6 percent of GDP in 2002); and (v) gross international reserves rose
from 0.9 months of imports to 1.9 months of imports by end-2002.

Despite these achievements, Ghana's macroeconomic performance remained mixed.                   In 2002, the


                                                      - 6 -

restoration of macroeconomic stability slowed down due to renewed weakness in public expenditure
management, non-implementation of revenue increase measures, and delays in the divestiture program.
Moreover, failure to adjust petroleum prices in line with the automatic formula contributed to the
Government having to assume debt of the Tema Oil Refinery amounting to almost 3 percent of GDP. In
total, the overrun in net domestic financing in 2002 (after application of a program adjuster for shortfalls in
external financing) was equivalent to 3.3 percent of GDP in 2002. As a result of these slippages, the
Ghana's final Review under the Fund's PRGF 1999-2002 Arrangement could not be completed in 2002.

Strengthening management of public expenditures: Contrary to expectations, improvements in public
expenditure were not achieved quickly. Weaknesses, especially as concerns the management of the wage
bill and the payment of 2001 non-budgeted expenditures (1.2 percent of GDP) were a source of fiscal
imbalances.     The production of monthly expenditure reports, which were to be a key aspect of the
Government's ability to improve the monitoring and control of public expenditure, was subject to quality
control problems and persistent delays throughout most of 2002. However, significant improvements were
made in late 2002 and accelerated in early 2003. Following the reassessment of the on-going budgetary
management program reform in mid-2002, an Action Plan was prepared for implementation with regular
updates. Key steps included: (i) the regular and comprehensive reconciliations of ministry and banking
data, which was achieved for the majority of accounts in early 2003; and (ii) the decision to proceed with
the roll-out of the initial phase of the budget and public expenditure management system (BPEMS), starting
in early 2003. In addition, 3,000 "ghost workers" were removed from the civil service payroll.

Eliminating the deficit of key public enterprises: This objective was partially achieved as the operating
losses of the four main state-owned enterprises (Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG); the Ghana Water
Corporation (GWC); the Volta River Authority (VRA) and the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) fell from 7.2
percent of GDP in 2000 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 2002. These losses stemmed from the failure to pass
through increases in world oil prices and exchange rate devaluation in 1999-2000 and to adjust prices
regularly in 2001 and 2002.

To eliminate these deficits, utility prices and petroleum prices were raised sharply in 2001 with the
expectation that further regular adjustment would take place in the subsequent years. The decision to raise
the tariff rates for water and electricity was taken initially by the PURC in May 2002, but the increase (40
percent and 60 percent respectively) was delayed until August 2002, which required unbudgeted subsidies
to VRA and ECG (0.2 percent of GDP). A second round of tariff increases was implemented in March
2003 (12 percent each for water and electricity), which would enable the two companies to cover their
costs.

The most important factor accounting for persistent losses of public enterprises was the substantial delays
incurred in adjusting petroleum prices. The failure to increase prices in line with the automatic petroleum
pricing formula in 2002 meant that the Tema Oil Refinery again accumulated substantial short-term debt
equivalent to almost 3 percent of GDP. However, in January 2003 petroleum prices were raised by 90
percent on average, bringing retail prices to import parity levels. In addition, a Debt Recovery Levy on
petroleum products was enacted to help retire the so-called TOR bonds that were issued in exchange of
TOR's debt to the Ghana Commercial Bank.

Reducing domestic and foreign debt: This objective was only partially achieved. The stock of domestic
debt rose from 26.8 percent of GDP 2001 to 29.0 percent in 2002. This debt kept nominal interest rates
high (25 percent at end-2002) and absorbed an average of 29 percent (for 2001-02) in annual revenues in
interest charges, limiting scope for funding basic infrastructure and other services. Government borrowing
still crowds out private sector finance, and, bank lending to government has accounted for over one half of


                                                      - 7 -

total available resources in the past three years. Ghana's external debt problem was addressed when the
HIPC decision point was approved in February 2002 and through Paris Club relief in May 2002. HIPC
relief will also be used to address domestic debt. Under the HIPC decision point document, 20 percent of the relief
provided will be used for domestic debt reduction.

In reflection of this mixed performance record, the impact indicators selected to measure progress under
ERSO III show that progress was made in four areas ­ a greater than projected reduction in the domestic
interest payments as a percentage of total recurrent expenditures; a reduction by over one third in the
operating losses of four major public enterprises (although these were not eliminated as projected); and a
slight decrease in the percentage of non-performing loans in the banking sector (see Annex 1). The
percentage of credit going to the private sector also grew slightly between 2001 and 2002.

Restarting of Structural Reforms

The objective was to reinvigorate the reform process in the areas of budgetary management; public
enterprise divestiture; banking sector reform; and cocoa export marketing. Structural reform proceeded but
slowed significantly in 2002. Achievements in each of these areas are discussed in turn.

Budgetary Management: See discussion above on public expenditure management.

Public Enterprise Divestiture: This component is rated unsatisfactory. Delays in the reconstitution of the
Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) were initially incurred due to the Government's efforts to
allow for better asset valuations and improve the transparence of the divestiture process. However, once
DIC was established the sale of the Cocoa Processing Company through a public share offering was the
only divestiture completed in 2001-2002.

Banking Sector Reform: This component is rated unsatisfactory although some important measures to
reform the banking sector were implemented. A new Bank of Ghana Law was passed by Parliament in
December 2001 clarifying the objectives of the central bank and strengthening its independence regulatory
role. This measure was reinforced by the Bank of Ghana's divestiture, also in December 2001, of all its
remaining shareholdings in the financial institutions it supervises.

The soundness of the banking sector improved as a result of the reduction of the deficit of the TOR and the
utilities, as discussed above, which improved the loan portfolio of the GCB, Ghana's largest commercial
bank.    Less positively, a new banking law (first introduced under ERSO II) strengthening the legal
framework for bank supervision and licensing still has not been passed.

Despite the steps taken to reform the banking sector, the overall results were limited by the failure to divest
both the GCB and the NIB. These actions remained from ERSO II and were to be completed in the context
of ERSO III. Although BOG supervision of the NIB was strengthened, divestiture did not proceed. By
early 2003 a decision on how to proceed with the sale was still pending. More importantly, despite
longstanding commitments to its divestiture, the GCB remains in Government hands. The divestiture of
GCB is now a structural benchmark under the Government's PRGF-program for 2003, with a target of no
later than September 2003 for cabinet approval of the divestiture contract.

Cocoa Export Marketing: This component is rated satisfactory. The announced cocoa buying price,
which was raised (under ERSO II) to 65 percent in 2000, was raised further to 67 percent by December
2002.     By raising rural incomes, this component has contributed directly and substantially to the




                                                       - 8 -

Government's poverty reduction goal.

The introduction of cocoa marketing reforms was less successful. As in 2000, the Government issued
regulations to allow all qualifying cocoa licensed buying companies (LBCs) to export 30 percent of their
domestic purchases either directly or through other LBCs which qualified to be direct exporters, starting
with the 2000/2001 crop season. Licenses were issued to three qualifying firms in 2001, but these firms
subsequently failed to meet the requirements, and export marketing of cocoa continues to be dominated by
Cocobod.

                Table 1: Ghana: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1999-2002


                                   1999       2000     2001      2002*      2002
   (Annual percentage change,                                  Projected    Estimated
     unless otherwise noted)
Real GDP                           4.4        3.7      4.2    5.0           4.5
Real GDP per capita                1.8        1.2      1.6   **            1.9
Consumer price index
(end-of-period)                    12.4       40.5     21.3  13.0          15.2
Cedis per U.S. dollar (avg.)       2,669      5,431    7,179 **            7,947
(As percent of GDP, unless
otherwise noted)
Government budget
Domestic revenue                   14.6       16.3     18.1  19.6          18.0
Total grants                       3.4        3.5      6.9   4.5           3.2
Total expenditure                  26.2       27.7     32.7  24.4          26.1
Overall balance (including grants
and after domestic arrears
clearance)                         -8.0       -9.7     -9.0  -5.7          -6.8
Domestic primary balance           1.4        2.4      -2.7  5.3           -5.0
Net domestic financing             6.3        8.5      2.3   1.3           4.8

Stock of domestic debt             21.8       28.9     26.8  **            29.0
Divestiture receipts               0.3        1.2      0.0   **            0.0

External Sector
Current account balance (including
external grants)                   -11.6      -8.4     -5.3  -4.3          0.6
External debt outstanding          109.9      169.7    131.5 **            112.4
External debt service ratio (as a %
of exports of goods and non-factor
services)                          21.1       23.0     18.9  15.3          18.4
Gross domestic reserves (in months
of imports of goods and services)  1.1        0.9      1.2   2.1           l.9
Terms of trade                     -13.4      -16.6-   4.8   **            9.1

Other
Bank lending to the private sector
(year-end % of total)              52.0       49.6     45.1  50.0          48.1




                                                    - 9 -

        *As projected in the ERSO III President's Report.
        **Not projected in the President's report.
        Sources: Government data and ERSO II PR and PSR.

Developing Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS)

This component is rated satisfactory.      The GPRS was prepared in 2001-2002 using a broad-based
consultative process, which endorsed the need to integrate specific macroeconomic goals as an integral part
of the strategy to reduce the country's poverty. The strategy has five pillars: macroeconomic stability;
production and employment; human resource development; special programs for the vulnerable and
excluded; and governance. Integration of the GPRS with the budget began in 2002 and strengthened in
2003. A joint Bank-Fund staff assessment of the GPRS in March 2003 concluded that the strategy
provides a sound framework for implementing the Government's anti-poverty agenda.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A


4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As an adjustment loan, ERSO III was not expected to have significant institutional development impact.
Technical assistance for the implementation of the reform program concerning budgetary expenditure
management and public sector reform was provided by PUFMARP and PSMR credits. Progress was
achieved in redesigning the reform of financial management, which increased government ownership and
gave a new impetus to the reform of financial management of public expenditures. However, little progress
was achieved in improving public sector management and restructuring ministries and autonomous
agencies. Overall, the initial expectations of quick reforms were not attained, and it took longer than
expected for institutional changes to take place.          The institutional development impact is rated
unsatisfactory.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The timing and extent to which electricity and water rates were adjusted in response to changes in world oil
prices are not subject to Government decision as these are the responsibility of the independent PURC. The
PURC made the decision to raise tariffs in May 2002, but postponed implementation until August 2002.
This three-month delay was costly, requiring unbudgeted subsidy payments to the utilities equivalent to 0.2
percent of GDP. Nonetheless, in light of the fact that the Government similarly delayed implementing
increases in petroleum prices in 2002 (by failing to implement an automatic price adjustment formula), it is
unlikely that the outcome would have been different had electricity and water tariffs been subject to
Government control.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government failed to implement an automatic pricing formula for petroleum in 2002, thereby leading
to a repeat of the events in 1999-2000; namely, an increase in TOR debt resulting in the GCB's



                                                     - 10 -

deteriorating balance sheet, and an assumption of TOR debt through the issuance of Government bonds.

In addition, following the establishment of the new Government in 2001, there was a delay until August
2001 on the part of the Council of State in re-constituting the Divestiture Implementation Committee. This
delay slowed the divestiture process in 2001, but it was not a critical cause of the Government's failure to
complete the divestiture actions carried forward from ERSO II during the period 2001-2002.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Continued institutional and human resource weaknesses at the Ministry of Finance have contributed to
on-going problems in effective public expenditure management and budget monitoring. These weaknesses
were compounded somewhat by the change in Government in 2001, bringing into power a political party
that had not been in power for 30 years, and the loss of some Ministry personnel.


5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no delays in disbursement in this one-tranche operation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the measures enacted under ERSO III is rated likely due to three critical elements.
The first one is the country's vibrant public debate that helps inform policy choice by Government and
Parliament and maintain a widespread consensus on the course of reforms. The second one is the renewed
commitment by the Government to accelerate the restoration of macroeconomic stability. Looking back at
the 2001-2002 period, the main conclusion is that while progress was achieved in reducing the inflation
rate, rebuilding external reserves, and increasing market confidence in the economy, significant weaknesses
in budget implementation and parastatal finances prevented most macroeconomic targets to be attained by
2002 as expected (see Table 1). Key fiscal and quasi-fiscal problem areas included the 2002 large wage
bill increase and other spending overruns; the non-implementation of critical revenue measures; and the
failure to adjust petroleum prices in line with the automatic adjustment formula, which led to the build-up
of losses by the Tema Oil Refinery.

However, recent policy choices indicate Government's ability and commitment to address these policy
shortcomings and stake out a course that would put the economy back on the track that was envisaged
when ERSO III was prepared. Such a direction underlies the newly finalized GPRS, which highlights the
crucial role of macroeconomic stability for attaining the country's growth and poverty reduction. Starting
from that premise, Government's policies are now focused on attaining fiscal sustainability over the
medium-term while taking into account the new spending priorities underlying the GPRS. As regards
medium-term fiscal sustainability, the two key parameters are the fiscal revenue effort and improved
management of the wage bill. To that effect, the 2003 budget includes measures that would increase fiscal
revenues by an estimated 3.5 percent of GDP in a full fiscal year and strengthen controls on expenditures
by introducing a new cash management system based on rolling cash projections prepared by ministries.
Further improvement in public expenditure management would take place through the launch of a new
computerized budget and public expenditure management system in 2003.

Among the macroeconomic vulnerabilities that could undermine the strategy, inadequate adjustment of
petroleum pricing and its implications for parastatal finances stand out. Following price increases for
petroleum in early 2003, the Government therefore decided that the authority to change petroleum prices


                                                    - 11 -

will be exercised by regulatory bodies. To this end, the National Tender Board has been given independent
powers to implement the automatic price adjustment formula for petroleum products. These decisions
should help address one of the major causes of macroeconomic imbalances during the ERSO III.

The third reason that increases the likelihood of sustainability is the renewed focus on completing the policy
reform agenda remaining from the ERSO III and implementing the more comprehensive policy reforms of
the newly finalized GPRS. Implementation of the first year reform program has now started with the 2003
budget. In total, poverty-related expenditures are projected to rise from 4.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to 6
percent of GDP in 2003. Financial sector reforms, including the restructuring of the Ghana Commercial
Bank ­which remained from ERSO II would also be carried out. Other key structural reforms remaining
from ERSO III, especially as concerns budget management and public sector reform would be implemented
as part of the donor support provided by the IDA Poverty Reduction Support Credit (FY03), the new
three-year arrangement under the IMF PGRF and other donors participating in the Multi-Donor Budget
Support. In March 2003, agreement was reached on the principles of a common framework for
multi-donor budgetary support between Government and donors aimed at supporting the implementation of
the GRPS through the government budget and carrying out regular joint reviews between Government and
interested development partners. In this context Development Partners in Ghana have sought to base their
response to the GPRS on a coordinated dialogue and a more programmatic approach to the assistance they
make available. The resulting increased coordination between Government and donors increases the
likelihood that the implementation of the GPRS would be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Bank lending under the IDA Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (June 2003), and Fund lending under a new
three-year PRGF facility, will ensure continued monitoring of Ghana's progress in the areas of
macroeconomic performance, structural reform, private sector growth, poverty reduction, and governance.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation and appraisal were conducted by the former economist for Ghana.               The credit met the
five-month standard for time elapsed between appraisal and board presentation. As noted, the Bank
over-estimated the pace at which reforms could be achieved in the areas of public expenditure management,
thereby undermining ERSO III's focus on improved budgetary management as a contributor to
macroeconomic stability.


7.2 Supervision:
Following ERSO III effectiveness, one supervision mission took place in November 2001; no direct
supervision took place after that date, although supervision continued in the context of Bank participation
in HIPC missions, Fund PRGF and other missions, and through the Bank's Resident Mission in Accra.

Bank-Fund cooperation on Ghana was very close, as evidenced by joint missions in February/March 2001
(in the context of the debt sustainability analysis); joint review in April 2001 (during the spring meetings)
of the Government's budget; joint preparation of the preliminary HIPC document in June/July 2001; and
joint review of the GPRS in February/March 2003.               Macroeconomic performance throughout the
2001-2002 period was closely supervised by the Fund through Article IV consultations and periodic
reviews in the context of Ghana's PRGF arrangement. Bank coordination with other donors was extensive,
including an April 2002 Consultative Group meetings; quarterly Enhanced Mini-Consultative Group



                                                     - 12 -

meetings ("Mini-CGs"); and a May 2002 Paris Club meeting.

Finally, project implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank Performance is rated marginally satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During project preparation, the Borrower signaled a high level of commitment to the intended objectives of
ERSO III by implementing a number of important and politically difficult reforms (e.g., a petroleum price
increase); entering into a PRGF arrangement with the Fund; and launching an extensive process of
consultations within Ghana for the preparation of the GPRS.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's overall performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. As documented in Section 4,
the Government's implementation performance in the first Component, restoring macroeconomic stability,
was rated satisfactory. Government implementation performance in terms of restarting structural reform,
was rated satisfactory in the component relating to cocoa reform, but unsatisfactory in the areas of
budgetary reform, privatization, and financial sector reform. Finally, the Government's performance in the
final component, preparing and implementing the GRSP, was rated satisfactory. Nonetheless, the bulk of
structural reforms undertaken in the context of ERSO III took place prior to Credit disbursement and
overall structural implementation progress slowed after July 2001, with only two measures being completed
in late 2001 (passage of the BOG supervisory legislation and the BOG's divestiture of financial institution
holdings in December of that year). Other structural reforms were not completed until late 2002/early
2003 (conversion of TOR debt and utility pricing reforms, and an increase in the price paid to cocoa
farmers) while a number were not carried out at all (divestiture of GCB and NIB -- carried over from
ERSO II ­ and other divestitures, passage of electricity and banking legislation, and the restructuring of the
VRA).


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Continued institutional and human resource weaknesses at the Ministry of Finance have contributed to
on-going problems in effective public expenditure management and budget monitoring. These weaknesses
were compounded somewhat by the change in Government in 2001, bringing into power a political party
that had not been in power for 30 years, and the loss of some Ministry personnel.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The implementation of the programs supported by ERSO III has been uneven. While progress has been
achieved in improving macroeconomic stability, the implementation of structural reforms has been slower
than expected. In areas such as public expenditure management, divestiture of state owned assets, energy



                                                   - 13 -

and public sector, reforms have proven difficult, especially when international market conditions made the
sale of enterprises impossible or the domestic coalition in support of reforms weakened. The recent
experience points to three main lessons.

First, Government commitment to reforms is critical if policy actions are to be sustained. Recent reforms
­such as the preparation of the GPRS and its translation into the 2003 budget--demonstrate that significant
progress can be achieved when the authorities take the lead and adopt an appropriate communication
strategy in implementing the policy agenda.

Second, the development of "ownership" may take longer than expected when a new Government comes to
power. Ghana's financial discipline worsened considerably prior to the 2000 elections with a sharply
deleterious effect on macroeconomic stability and structural reforms. Because the resulting financial
imbalances were extremely large, the design and timing of the adjustment measures became more complex.
Ownership of the reform agenda had to be re-established by the new government that came to power, and a
time-consuming consensus building had to be carried out in order to gain support of the civil society.
Accordingly, Bank adjustment operations need to explicitly address these challenges by pro-actively
identifying the potential for electoral-induced policy lapses; by incorporating measures to better respond
should such slippages occur; and by ensuring the full ownership of reforms by government and civil society
to improve the likelihood of policy implementation. Additionally, careful consideration needs to given as to
what constitutes policy conditionality, as submission of legislation to Parliament does not necessarily
translate into policy implementation.

Third, selectivity and realism are essential when the reform agenda is vast and available capacity might be
less strong than desirable. Such constraints applied in the case of the budgetary expenditure management
reform, which envisaged that a comprehensive reform could be implemented quickly despite extensive
shortcomings in terms of available skills. In these situations, there is a need to define a hierarchy and
sequence of country-owned reforms that matches the capacity of the country to implement complex
reforms. While Ghana did not reverse any reforms that were introduced under previous adjustment credits,
the record of implementation shows the need to implement the reform agenda over a medium-term horizon
that allows sufficient time for implementation as well as flexibility in the timing of implementation. In that
context, it is worthwhile to note that some of the reforms remaining from ERSO II, such as financial sector
reform, were partly implemented under ERSO II and III, while the remaining agenda will be implemented
under the envisaged series of PRSC. The same considerations apply to the reform of the energy sector and
public expenditure management, where reforms were initiated under ERSO II, but their implementation
took longer than expected with the remaining reforms now being implemented under the PRSC. Overall,
shortcomings of the traditional adjustment lending point to the need for a different institutional environment
such as the one provided by programmatic lending under the envisaged series of PRSCs.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 14 -

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                       Annex 1. ERSO III Impact Indicators -- Projected vs. Actual



Impact Indicators                       2000         2001        Projected      Provisional
                                                                   2002*

                                                                                 Estimates

                                                                                    2002

Domestic interest payments as % of      28.7          30.5          27.7            22.6
total recurrent expenditure

Expenditures in health and education
as % of total domestically financed
expenditures                            26.0          31.0          36.0            n.a.

Non-performing loans in banking         12.1          19.6           n.a            19.2
system (% of total)                                                              (end-Sept.)

Private sector credit (% of total) 1/   49.6          45.1          50.0            48.1
                                                                                 (end-Sept.)

Operating losses of four major           7.2          n/a            0.0             4.5
public enterprises (% of GDP)2

         *        As projected in Annex G of the President's Report, ERSO III, Report No. P7471-GH.
         1        Monetary data was revised. As a result, the actual data is not directly comparable to the
    projected share for 2002.
         2        Tema Oil Refinery, Electricity of Ghana, Volta River Authority, and Ghana Water Company Ltd.
    Losses exclude financial charges.
    Sources:      Government data and ERSO III President's Report and PSR.




                                                      - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Available eletronically

Eletronically available




                                      - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Preparation
               May 2001                   3     Economists                            S
                                                                                      S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 14-27, 2001            6     Economists (3); Energy                S
                                                Specialist, Public Sector
                                                Specialist and a Budgetary
                                                Management Specialist.
               June 25-26, 2002           7     Country Director Country              S
                                                Program Coordinator,
                                                Economists (2), Senior
                                                Economist, Legal Counsel and
                                                Disbursement Officer.

 Supervision
               October 2001                1    Task Manager
               April 2002                  1    Task Manager                          S               S
               June 2002                   1    Task Manager

 ICR
               June 2003                  1     Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Preparation                                 7.6                         43,583
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     25.4                         146,198
  Supervision                                 6.8                         33,156
  ICR                                           6                         12,500
  Total                                     45.8                         235,437




                                                - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                                             - 22 -




President's Report, "Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Ghana," Report No. 17002-GH,
August 13, 1997.

Pre-Appraisal Mission, "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II)," Aide Memoire
(Revised), December 16, 1998).

President's Report, "Proposed Economic Reform Support Operation of SDR 37.1 Million to the Republic
of Ghana," Report No. P-7247 GH, May 18, 1998.

ERSO II Draft Concept Brief, November 2, 1998.

Minutes of CT Meeting on Draft Concept Brief of ERSO II, November 5, 1998.

ERSO II Concept Brief (Revised), February 1, 1999.

Memorandum, "Ghana ­ Second Economic Reform Support Operation, Regional Operations Committee
Meeting," March 24, 1999.

Back-to-Office Report, ERSO II Appraisal/Negotiations Mission, April 27, 1999.

President's Report, "Proposed Second Economic Reform Support Operation Credit of SDR 32.7 Million to
the Republic of Ghana," Report No. P-7311 GH, May 4, 1999.

Development Credit Agreement, July 9, 1999 (and amendments).

Aide-Memoire, "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Mission (ERSO II) ­ Supervision Mission,"
September 22, 1999.

Aide-Memoire (draft), "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Mission (ERSO II) ­ Supervision
Mission," March 14, 2000.

President's Report, "Country Assistance Strategy for Ghana," Report No. 20185-GH, June 29, 2000.

President's Memorandum, "Ghana:         Second Economic Reform Support Operation -- Proposed
Supplemental Credit to Ghana for the Second Economic Reform Support Operation," August 16, 2000.

President's Memorandum, "Proposed Amendment to the Credit Agreement and Supplemental Credit (Cr.
No. 3228-3-GH)," IDA/R2000-154, August 18, 2000.

ERSO II, Second Tranche Release Memorandum, IDA/SecM2000-524, September 3, 2000.

Minutes of ROC Meeting on Ghana CAS Progress Report and ERSO III Concept Note, May 3, 2001.



                                                 - 22 -

President's Report, "Proposed Third Economic Reform Support Operation Credit of SDR 87.7 Million to
the Republic of Ghana," Report No. P 7471-GH, June 2, 2001.

Development Credit Agreement, ERSO III, July 27, 2001.

Memorandum, "ERSO II ­ Proposed Waiver of Conditionality for Release of Third Tranche," June 16,
2002.

Memorandum, "ERSO II ­ Extension of Closing Date," June 21, 2002.

Aide-Memoire, "Ghana ­ First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1)," World Bank Appraisal
Mission, April 28-May 2, 2003.

President's Report (Draft), "Program Document for a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR ­ Million to
Ghana for a Poverty Reduction Support Credit, June __, 2003.

"The Republic of Ghana: Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper,"
March 4, 2003, Report No. 25495-GH




                                                - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Comments




                                     - 24 -

- 25 -

