Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13453
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTNENT LOAN
(LOAN 2889-CO)
AUGUST 17, 1994
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Currency Unit         =       Colombian Peso (Col$)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES (Col$/USS)
198           129           1987           1988          1989          1990
142.3         194.3         241.4         299.2         382.6         502.2
FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
k (kilo)                           =      103 (thousand)
M (Mega)                           =      10' (million)
G (Giga)                                   l0' (billion)
T (Tera)                           =      1012 (trillion)
P (Peta)                           =      10' (quadrillion)
E (Exa)                            =      10"   (quintillion)
CASEC                              =      Comite Ambiental del Sector Electrico Colombiano
CHB                                =      Central Hidroel6ctrica de Betania
CONPES                             =      Consejo Nacional de Polftica Econ6mica y Social
CORELCA                            =      Corporaci6n Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC                                =      Corporaci6n Ad1tonoma Regional del Cauca
DNP                                =      Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
ECOPETROL                          =      Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
EEB                                =      Empresa de Energfa de BogotA
EMCALI                             =      Empresa Municipales de Cali
EPM                                =      Empresas Plblicas de Medellfn
ESMAP                              =      Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FEN                                =      Financiera Electrica Nacional
FODEX                              =      Fondo De Monedas Extranjeras
FONADE                             =      Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
ICEL                               =      Instituto Colombiano de Energia
IDB                                =      Inter-American Development Bank
IRR                                =      Internal Rate of Return
ISA                                =      Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT                                =      Junta Nacional de Tarifas (National Tariff Board)
LRMC                               =      Long Run Marginal Cost
MCPS                               =      Monitoring Committee of the Power Sector
MME                                =      Ministerio de Minas y Energia
MHCP                               =      Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito PNblico
PSAL                               =      Power Sector Adjustment Loan
SCPS                               -      Superior Council of the Power Sector
SINSE                              -      Sistema de Informacion del Sector Electrico
TAP                                =      Tariff Adjustment Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Power Sector Adjustment Project (Loan 2889-CO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia - Power Sector Adjustment Project
(Loan 2889-CO)", prepared by the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the borrower.
This was the first Bank adjustment operation in the power sector in Colombia after two
decades of close involvement through 15 loans totalling US$1.9 billion. The US$300 million loan was
to help the government implement the 1987-1990 Financial Rehabilitation and Investment Plan for
the Sector. The project, approved in 1987, aimed further at broadly removing many inefficiencies not
previously addressed in the traditional investment projects. The third tranche of US$75 million was
cancelled at the Borrower's request to pursue alone a deeper financial consolidation of the utilities.
The project went through several redesigns to achieve a balance between quick disbursements
and inducements to sector adjustments. Eventually, general financing of imports was split into three
tranches, each conditioned upon specific measures. Those associated with the first two tranches were
mostly met. They included the rationalization of the planning of investments and the readying of
several utilities for the rationalization of the planning of investments and the readying of several
utilities for the restructuring that followed. Bank assistance helped Colombia secure US$1 billion in
parallel cofinancing from Japan for the power sector. Disappointments included the delayed creation
of the Commision Nacional de Energia, shortcomings in pricing policy adjustments leading to weak
financial performance and inadequate follow-up to studies.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the circumstances leading to the partial cancellation.
Overall, the project is rated as marginally satisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain, and its
institutional impact as negligible.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
Preface ..................................................... (i)
Evaluation Summary ............................................. (ii)
Loan Objectives ...........................................  (ii)
Loan Results .............................                         t .(ii)
Lessons Learned  ....         ...... ..............  (iii)
Future Bank Support .....          ..... ..............  (iv)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Background  ...............................   1
2.    Bank's Experience with the Power Sector ...............................   2
Bank Lending to the Sector, 1970-87 ...............................  2
3. Preparation of the PSAL:.                                                                          2
Macroeconomic and Sector Circumstances.                                                 3
Main Objectives of the Sector Loan: Macroeconomic and Sector.                           5
Comments from Executive Directors.                                                      5
4.    Implementation of the PSAL  ........................................  6
Release of the First Tranche . ...................................  6
Release of the Second Tranche  .      .................................  6
Cancellation of the Third Tranche  .      ...............................  6
5.  Results of the PSAL ......................................... 7
Political and Economic Background  ............             ...................  7
Macroeconomics Objectives  . ...................................  7
Investment ......................................... 8
Institutional .........................................                             .   8
Environmental and Social ......................................  8
Financial ......................................... 8
Weighted Overal Results ......................................  9
Impact and Sustainability of the PSAL and
Other Parallel Processes .     .................................  9
6.    Conclusions .........................................                                 . .  10
Performance of the Government .................................. 10
Performance of the Bank  .....................................   10
7.    Comments to the Government's Evaluation of the PSAL ......               ................  12
8.  Lessons Learned ......................................... 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



9     Future Bank Support ............................................   15
PART I:PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE17-32
PART Im: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: Related Bank Loans ...................................... 33
TABLE 2: Loan Data  ..........................................    35
A. Total Disbursements .       .................................  35
B. Project Timetable .     ...................................   35
C. Cumulative Loan Disbursements  .......             ...................  35
TABLE 3: Use of Bank Resources .................................... 36
A. Staff Input ........................................   36
B. Mission Data ....................................... 36
TABLE 4: Main Conditionalities of Loan Agreement ........................  37
TABLE 5: Schedule of Disbursement Actions  ............................  39
TABLE 6: PSAL's Success Expectation as of 8/31/88  .......................  43
TABLE 7: PSAL's Estimated Weighted Success as of 9/30/90  ..................  44
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:   A Brief Recapitulation of Economic and Political
Background 1987-1990  .........             ........................  45
ANNEX 2:   Financial Performance  .................................  48
ANNEX 3: Environmental Components of the PSAL .60
ANNEX 4:  Resettlement and Social Components of the PSAL .65
ANNEX 5: Objectives and Results of the PSAL .68
Table 5.1 Comparative Investment Program .69
Table 5.2 Guavio Hydroelectric Project - Comparative
Financing until Completion .76
Table 5.3 ICEL - Action Plan .                                                 77
Table 5.4 CORELCA - Action Plan .80
Table 5.5 Results of Electricity Loss Reduction
Program .4
Graph 5.1 System Total Energy Losses .85
Graph 5.2 EEB's Energy Losses .86
Graph 5.3 EPM's Energy Losses .87
Graph 5.4 CVC's Energy Losses .87
Graph 5.5 CORELCA's Group Energy Losses .88
Graph 5.6 ICEL's Group Energy Losses .                                         88



(i)
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Power Sector Adjustment Loan 2889-CO;
US$300 million) which supported the Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation and Investment Plan for
1987-1990. Loan 2889-CO was approved on November 1987 and was disbursed in two tranches (2889-
CO). At the Government request, the third tranche for US$75 million was cancelled effective September
30, 1990. The last disbursement (Second Tranche) was on August 31, 1989. The Borrower was the
Government; the executing agency was Financiera Energetica Nacional (FEN); and the beneficiaries were:
Empresa de Energfa de BogotA (EEB) and the Instituto Colombiano del Energfa Electrica (ICEL) and
Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA).
The report was jointly prepared by the Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Division of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and M), and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during June 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the Presidents Report;
the loan; supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






(ii)
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Loan Obiectives
The PSAL was intended to address both macroeconomic and sector issues. With this Loan,
the Government and the Bank sought to support Colombia's overall adjustment program and catalyze the
mobilization of external funds. The Government regarded the PSAL as a key element of its foreign debt
strategy. The mobilization of external funding to the power sector was to release resources towards
sectors with lower foreign capital and import requirements.
Sectorwise, the PSAL was to support the Government's reform programs whose principal
objective was to improve the supply and demand efficiency in the power sector. The objective was to
be achieved by: (i) rationalizing planning policies and investments in the energy sector; (ii) improving
the regulatory framework and management of the weaker utilities; (iii) improving the technical capacity
to monitor the environmental and social aspects of the sector in line with international standards; and not
least (iv) improving the self financing capacity, capital structure, debt terms, and operational, commercial,
and pricing efficiency of the sector.
Loan Results
The PSAL was successful in helping secure the target amount of external funds (US$1.03
billion) for the power sector, including parallel cofinancing investment loans from the Eximbank of Japan
and the IDB. However, the expected release of funds from the power sector to other sectors did not
materialize. Lower than expected internal sector savings, and lower disbursement levels from the external
sources, caused the Government to borrow a substantial amount of funds totalling some US$793 million,
at short term commercial terms, to meet the financing needs of the sector during 1987-90 (para. 5.2).
In relation to the adjustment objectives, there have been some significant achievements.
Through the PSAL and the preparation of the proposed follow-up operation, the Bank supported the
consolidation of a fundamental sector restructuring process which over the last two years has already
produced several significant and practical reforms (paras. 9.2-9.6).
The rationalization of the planning policies of the power sector was carried out satisfactorily.
But, progress in the implementation of integral energy sector planning was impaired by the delayed
creation of the Comision Nacional de Energia (CNE). As to the investment objectives of the sector,
while the overall dollar targets were met the physical targets were not, particularly at the distribution level
and the Guavio project, due to continuing financial and institutional constraints (para. 5.3).
The studies required to support the introduction of institutional and financial improvements
to the utilities were largely completed on time. In contrast, the recommendations of the studies were



(iii)
largely ignored because of insufficient regional and municipal commitment and conceptual ownership
(para. 5.4).
The ambitious number of environmental and social institutional goals for the sector were
successfully met beyond expectations. Also, the action plans set for the Guavio project were carried out
satisfactorily (para. 5.5).
The major objective of achieving substantial financial rehabilitation of the Power Sector by
1990, was not realized. After 1987, there was slow but steady progress with respect to levels and
structure of tariffs; but in real terms this progress during the years 1987-1990 was 17% below that
expected at appraisal (Feb/1987), mainly due to circumstances outside the control of the sector. None
of the financial targets (tariff levels, self financing, indebtedness, accounts receivable, and energy losses)
was fully achieved. On the revenue side these shortfalls were due to lack of mechanisms to deal with
the higher inflation and devaluation of the Col$ than expected. On the expenditure side, costs were
higher mainly because of the pliant budgetary framework of the sector (para. 5.6).
On an overall weighted basis this report estimates that about 65% of the objectives of the
PSAL were met (para 5.7).
As the Government had overall responsibility for influencing, enhancing and monitoring the
environment of the sector, this report concludes that until September 1990, the Government was unable
to accord the institutional, financial, and commercial rehabilitation of the sector sufficient priority
notwithstanding its commitments under the reform program. Thus, the influence of the Bank on
Colombian policy, during the implementation of the PSAL was less than anticipated (paras. 6.1-6.4).
Lessons Leamed (section 8)
Most of the shortcomings resulted from having structured the PSAL without the support of
what are now standard Bank requirements for adjustment operations: (a) clear and complementary country
and sector strategies; (b) strong ownership of the reform objectives; (c) tailoring the operation to the
available implementation and regulatory capacity; (d) avoiding excessive conditionality; (e) obtaining
updated financial information; (e) effective creation of a monitoring system; and (f) obtaining appropriate
up-front conditionality.
An active dialogue with the Borrower should have been maintained to ensure coordination
between macroeconomic and sectoral policy dynamics. Also, a clear technical and politically phased
strategy should have been defined before proceeding with the project. These points are particularly
critical to the success of infrastructure sector adjustment operations.
To improve regulatory transparency a competent auditing firm should have been engaged to
assist the Government in reviewing the SINSE initiative (paras. 7.5, 8.4) and propose proper regulations
for the timely production of reliable and consistent sector financial statements based on uniform
accounting standards.
Sectoral strategy papers are an important tool for maintaining institutional memory over time.
It allows awareness of key sectoral shortcomings to be maintained during changes of staff assigned to the
sector.



(iv)
Changing the nature of the operation late in the processing pipeline should be avoided. In
instances where the form of the operation must change for internal bureaucratic reasons, the integrity of
the project and the consistency between the form and substance of its implementation strategy merit close
reevaluation.
Unless there is substantial up-front policy action including an effective reporting and
monitoring system, it is impractical to enter into quick disbursing operations in a sector whose problems
requiring medium to long term solutions have not been strategically sequenced, or where accurate and
reliable information is not timely available (para. 8.4). The sector approach requires comprehensive
consideration of all significant aspects of sector performance phased over a realistic period of time.
Future Bank Support
Should the disappointing adjustment performance of the sector during the implementation of
the PSAL, which continued the existing pattern of incomplete compliance with covenants, lead to the
conclusion that the Bank should discontinue support for Colombia's power sector?
The answer should be no, provided that the proposed reforms and effective regulatory
transparency (including SINSE) are implemented, for two principal reasons.  First, the increased
commitment of Colombian officials of the need to reform the power sector and develop an adequate
policy and regulatory framework, triggered by the difficulties in implementing the PSAL, and the
occurrence of significant local and international sectoral events (para. 5.8); this commitment represents
a positive change in the environment for future power projects, and a reduction of the unfavorable
conditions that hindered the PSAL. Second, the Bank can offer important comparative advantages in
assisting the sector reform which is needed to permit continued economic growth in Colombia. The Bank
could bring to the reform process experience across countries in the power sector, coordination and
consensus building skills, and positive working relationships developed with counterparts through previous
projects such as the PSAL.
The effectiveness of the Bank's continued support and technical assistance immediately after
the PSAL has been demonstrated. Since the closing date of the PSAL to date, the Bank's participation
in institutional reform has matured into a well developed process. It is already showing tangible results
such as the creation of the Energy Regulatory Commission, the unbundling of the generation and
transmission assets of ISA, and a firm commitment to setting up a workable competitive market for
electricity generation.
Effective Government action has also materialized in the area of private sector participation
through (i) the installation of 95 MW (Mamonal) of private generation in an industrial complex in
Cartagena, (ii) a 150 MW BOO contract (La Sevillana) with a foreign contractor, (both of these projects
are already in operation), (iii) a 750 MW BOO contract (Barranquilla) awarded and currently being
negotiated, (iv) invitations to bid for a 200 MW BOO (Termovalle) and (v) the ongoing divestment of
Betania, a 500 MW hydro power plant. The generation capacity of these plants totaling 1695 MW
represent 17% of the total installed capacity in Colombia today. These developments are to be followed
shortly by the organization of the open access network operated by an independent transmission company.
In retrospect, the above achievements should be seen as the consequence of the Bank's
contribution to the definition of a new vision for the power sector by (a) supporting the diagnosis of the
sector's problems - ESMAP 1986, OED 1990; (b) attempting ambitious adjustment targets for addressing



(v)
them - PSAL 1988; (c) fostering consensus on systemic deficiencies, the need for reform action, and
the design of a reform program starting with the power subsector -OED seminars and ESMAP TA in
1991; and (d) by supporting the implementation of this program (PERL 1992, and the proposed TA loan -
- para. 9.4).
Under present circumstances, Bank support for carrying out the ongoing reform of the power
sector (para. 9.2) should rely on commitment lending for technical assistance and normal project
investments that disburse over realistic time periods. The minimum necessary objectives for further Bank
support should be to improve regulatory transparency; financial, economic and environmental efficiency;
and the increase of effective competition through private sector participation. These objectives should
be achieved by the implementation of the SINSE (para. 7.5), the enactment and implementation of the
Electricity Law, consistency with a least-cost investment program of all investments not undertaken by
the private sector, achievement of loss-reduction and energy conservation targets, and consolidation of
the environmental and resettlement-social policies of the sector.



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identit
Project Name:       Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL>
Loan Number:        2889-CO
RVP Unit:           Latin America and Caribbean Region LA3TF
Country:            Colombia
Sector:             Energy
Subsector:          Electric Power
1. Backgrund
1.1   The Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) for US$300 million, approved in 1987, was the latest
and most comprehensive effort by the Government and the Bank to reverse the deteriorating trend in
power sector efficiency and finances which began in the late 1970s. Its outcome must be judged in the
context of several important and interrelated factors:
a. the Bank's relations with Colombia, particularly its experience under previous operations in
the power sector since 1978. During this period, a primary objective of the Bank was to help
improve the sector's efficiency and finances. Also, a pattern of incomplete compliance with
agreements by the Colombian authorities (para. 2.3) had been indirectly encouraged by recurrent
unrealistic optimism by the Bank in expecting that the next investment operation would reverse
the deteriorating trend of the sector;
b. the record of the effort to process the Power Sector Loan, its objectives and conditionality
designed for an investment rather than for an adjustment loan, compliance with effectiveness and
release conditions, and needed amendments therefor (paras. 3.7 and 3.8);
c. the adaptation of the sector dialogue to the new modus operandi resulting from the 1987
reorganization of the Bank which inter-alia required a more strict and timely compliance with
covenants, particularly of quick disbursing adjustment operations; and
d. the sharp deterioration of performance that came with the financial difficulties in the mid-
1980s, when Government did not allow the sector to adjust its tariffs for the effects of the
massive devaluation of the Col$, which paradoxically coincided with a successful dialogue
between Government and the Bank on changes required in Colombia's economy (paras. 3.1-3.3;
and Annex 1).



2
Subsequent sections evaluate the impact of the operation in relation to its objectives (Section 5, and Annex
5) and the performance of the Bank and the Borrower (Section 6); and identify lessons learned from this
experience relevant to future operations (Section 8).
1.2   It may be helpful to state at the outset that despite the difficulties and tensions experienced in
implementing the PSAL, the situation would have been significantly worse had the Loan not been made.
While logical substantiation for this 'what if' type of conclusion is not possible, it is a reasonable
inference based on the fact that various actions were taken by Colombian authorities to strengthen sector
performance mainly due to continued dialogue with the Bank and (at times) the Bank's insistence on the
need for action. For example. according to sector authorities, the urging of the Bank played a positive
role, in convincing the Government of the need to restructure the sector, and to raise tariffs in real terms
during the last calendar quarter of 1990. Bank participation in underlining the need for sector reform
as a prerequisite for resolving the pervasive sector problems on a sustained basis, and in providing funds,
has had a positive impact compared to the expected evolution of the sector had this Loan and subsequent
Technical Assistance support not been made.
2. Bank's Experience with the Power Sector'
Bank Lendin2 to the Sector. 1970-1987
2.1    During 1970-87, the Bank made 15 loans to Colombia for electric power, including the PSAL,
totalling US$1.9 billion. These loans were equivalent to 40% of the long term gross borrowing of the
sector, some US$5 billion equivalent in 1987. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the other
main source of foreign financing for the sector, had contributed another US$1.9 billion in 22 loans. This
was a period of rapid growth in installed power capacity and in coverage of the fast growing Colombian
population. As of 1987, the total amount of Bank loans to the power sector equalled about 37% of total
Bank loans to Colombia, and about one third of the outstanding power sector debt was owed to the Bank.
2.2    Based on the lessons learned from the previous five completed operations since 1970, most of
Bank lending over the period supported major sector initiatives such as: the creation of stronger regional
utilities, with the existing main companies as a nucleus; the preparation of a development master plan;
systematic generation and transmission planning, based on least-cost analysis; balancing investment
between generation and transmission on the one hand, and distribution, on the other; reduction of system
losses; a unified presentation of financial data and progress toward compatible financial accounting in the
utilities; marginal cost pricing; and a reasonable contribution to investment from sector revenues.
2.3    Although substantial success in some of these endeavors was achieved, it had not been possible
to bring it to a satisfactory and sustainable level. A pattern of incomplete compliance with institutional
and financial understandings and agreements with multilateral agencies had evolved because concerted
action among the Government, sector agencies and utilities was lacking. For example, although decided
at the highest level of government the creation of new regional aggregations of utilities did not proceed.
' As perceived in 1986-1987. For a more recent in-depth evaluation see OED's Report No. 8893,
'Colombia - The Power Sector and the World Bank 1970-1987," June 28, 1990.



3
Preparation of a sectoral development master plan was drastically curtailed. Generation and transmission
planning carried out by ISA, though vastly improved, could not eliminate the flaws stemming from ISA's
shareholders tendency to introduce untimely project preferences at the expense of nationally-oriented
considerations. And not least, financial and operational efficiency continued in a critical downtrend.
2.4    Despite all efforts, by 1987 the investment program remained quite unbalanced at the expense of
distribution. Overall system losses had increased by about 50% to an average of 24%, while those in
some utilities had roughly doubled (EEB, and CORELCA's Electrificadoras). Internal cash generation,
which had persistently fallen short of targets, never contributing more than 10% to the sector's
investments (after a momentary peak of around 15% in 1976) compounded by an increasing level of
accounts receivable from municipal and government owned entities, failed to ease the heavy burden the
sector had been imposing on government finances.
2.5    By 1986, the Colombian Government, sector authorities and utilities had accepted the principle
of pricing according to average long run incremental costs, but its implementation remained slow, leaving
the sector far from the goals set. Substantial tariff distortions and subsidies persisted, implying very large
subsidies to residential consumers (particularly to high income, high consumption residential subscribers),
partly at the expense of industry and commerce.
2.6    The PSAL was the first Bank operation which explicitly attempted to address the sector issues
as a whole through a program of concerted actions involving all the principal players in the sector.
3. Pregaration of the PSAL:
Macroeconomic and Sector Circumstances
3.1    During 1984-86 the Colombian Government had put in motion a stabilization program to correct
the severe fiscal and external imbalances of the early 1980s. Following up on this successful effort, in
early 1987 the Government defined a medium term program for 1987-90 aimed to consolidate its
adjustment progress and to ensure sustained growth at about 4% p.a. An important element in the overall
strategy was the public expenditure program which was at a major turning point. The Government
priorities had shifted from a focus on infrastructure development towards social concerns and the need
to restrain the level of total public expenditure.
3.2    The Bank had worked closely with the Government in helping to define a plan in support of the
public sector medium term investment program. Public sector investment for 1987-90 averaging US$2.7
billion p.a. was approved by the National Economic Policy Counsel (COMPES) in July 1987.
Maintaining consistency with macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, the program entailed overall cuts
and specific reductions in investments for the energy related sectors of electric power, petroleum and
coal, and increases in expenditures on social programs.
3.3    Colombia's external resource mobilization strategy was an essential element of the medium term
program. It had important implications for the power sector adjustment program because of the high
level of power sector debt and heavy financing needs. The basic strategy was to rely on voluntary
lending. The Government's objective was to maintain debt to commercial banks at roughly the current



4
levels then, but at the same time to open possibilities for new lending in the future by broadening access
to new financial markets and using a wider range of financing instruments.
3.4   To cope with the heavy bunching of maturities during 1987-90 Colombia had reached agreement
in principle with commercial banks on a voluntary financing operation totalling US$1,060 million which
reflected the country's strong economic performance. As part of this operation, US$200 million were
included as parallel cofinancing for the Power Sector Adjustment Program. Even with a scaled-down
investment program, the financing needs of the power sector were large and the PSAL, including its
quick disbursing features, was an essential part of the overall financing package. This package together
with likely new lending from multilateral sources were to provide the funds which Colombia needed to
achieve its growth targets during 1987-90.
3.5   The reduction to the power-sector program was substantial. From a peak of USS1 bilion p.a.
in 1982-84 when it made 35% of the investment program, power sector investment during 1987-90 was
to decline to an average of US$516 million p.a., reducing its share to 19% of the total program. The
program included completion of ongoing generating plants, high priority transmission and distribution
projects, and advances in rural electrification supporting social objectives.
3.6   Preparation of the operation began in January 1985 when the Government requested the assistance
of the Bank in the formulation, implementation, and financing of a sector rehabilitation program to
address long-standing financial, regulatory, and efficiency issues of the sector. Prior plans to restore
sector finances through tariff increases and efficiency measures had failed due to relatively high levels
of ColS devaluation and inflation, the weak accountability and regulatory frameworks, and deficiencies
inherent in the plans or delays in their implementation. It was expected that a more systematic approach
which had Bank support could attract substantial amounts of cofinancing from other sources over the next
two years. Bank staff cooperated closely with the staff of FEN, ISA and the Ministries of Finance and
of Mines and Energy to: (a) diagnose sectoral problems; (b) define policies for the medium and long-term
development of the sector; (c) identify investment priorities, financial requirements, and possible sources
of financing; and (d) draft the PSAL's Program covering the period 1987-90, based on a least-cost
investment program and a corresponding financing plan.
3.7   In February 1985, the operation was originally conceived as a quick disbursing sector adjustment
loan. By the time of the final project brief in July 1986, prior to the preappraisal mission of November
1986, the operation was being prepared as a more conventional sector investment loan to be tranched over
the 1987-90 period. This conception prevailed through the appraisal mission of February 1987, and until
the yellow cover SAR of May 1987, where the idea was to provide about 90% of the loan for financing
both the Government's equity investments in troubled utilities, and interest during construction on past
Bank loans.
3.8   The need to change the operation into a sector adjustment loan to provide 100% financing against
general imports, subject to a negative list, arose because direct financing of interest during construction
on past Bank loans was too close to actual refinancing of said loans and thus not appropriate. The rest
of the $3 billion 1987-90 power investment program was largely covered by ongoing loans already
committed to physical components of the program, and of proposed new financing such as from Japan's
Eximbank and the 1DB, which could not disburse'against general imports. The Bank's decision to
proceed with the loan as an adjustment operation was based on the linkage between this loan and the
US$1.06 billion loan which the Government was negotiating with commercial banks to support its 1987-



5
90 overall adjustment program; on Colombia's satisfactory macroeconomic performance indicators; and
on the very significant sectoral policy content of the loan.2
Main Objectives of the Sector Loan: Macroeconomic and Sector
3.9   The Sector Loan intended to address both macroeconomic and sector issues. With this Loan, the
Government and the Bank sought to support Colombia's overall adjustment program and catalyze the
mobilization of funds from commercial banks, the IDB, and the Eximbank of Japan. The Government
regarded the PSAL as a key element of its foreign debt strategy. The mobilization of external funding
to the power sector was to release resources towards sectors with lower foreign capital and import
requirements.
3.10   Sectorwise, the PSAL was to support the Government's reform programs in the power sector
whose principal objective was to improve the supply and demand efficiency of power generation,
transmission, and distribution. The objective was to be achieved by: (i) rationalizing planning policies
and investments in the energy sector; (ii) improving the regulatory framework and management of the
weaker utilities; (iii) improving the technical capacity to monitor the environmental and social aspects of
the sector in line with international standards; and not least (iv) improving the self financing capacity,
capital structure, debt terms, and operational, commercial, and pricing efficiency of the sector.
3.11   Specifically, the adjustment program (summarized in Annex 5) consisted of action plans on the
following areas:
a. sector investment, including: investment policies; the 1987-1990 investment program; the
1991-2000 investment program; and the Guavio project.
b. institutional, including: management and financial improvement of ICEL, CORELCA and
EEB.
c. environmental and social aspects of the sector and the Guavio project; and
d. financial adjustment program, including: tariff, energy loss reduction and accounts receivable
improvement programs.
Comments from Executive Directors
3.12   When the Sector Loan was presented for the approval of the Executive Directors on December
8, 1987, two Directors opposed it and expressed severe criticism concerning two principal aspects: (i)
on the justification of the loan, underlining that the Bank should not lend to a sector that was
overinvested, and that the US$300 million should be part of concrete investments in say education,
training, or to give access to electricity to the 40% of the colombian population not yet having it; and
(ii) on the timing of the loan, submitting that it would have been more appropriate for the Board to
consider the loan in the light of the then impending reports on country economic work and the new Bank
volicy on Energy.
2 GrCn Cover review meeting - Minutes, August 12, 1987.



6
3.13   Although the Loan was strongly endorsed by a large majority of the Executive Directors some
made comments principally stressing: (i) the perceived vague conditionality of the loan; (ii) the need to
have more ambitious targets for the electricity loss reduction program; (iii) the need to reduce the
distortion of electricity rates; and (iv) the viability of securing cofinancing funds for US$1,030 million.
All points made by the Executive Directors were adequately addressed by staff in their response. (For
a fuller statement, see the Summary of Board Discussions of December 8, 1987).
4. Implementation of the PSAL
Release of the First Tranche
4.1    Weaknesses relating to the readiness and ownership of the adjustment program by the sector and
government agencies, and to the prompt establishment of monitoring mechanisms to ensure timely
compliance with dated and tranching covenants, surfaced soon after loan signing on March 16, 1988.
Through an early amendment, a number of dated covenants due by March 30, 1988 were postponed to
July 30, 1988 (Part m, Table 4). This amendment allowed the disbursement of the first tranche of the
loan (US$150 million) on June 6, 1988, just before June 16, 1988, the original deadline for effectiveness.
Release of the Second Tranche
4.2   The second tranche (US$75 million) due before March 1989 could not be released on time
because of general delays in meeting disbursement conditions (Part HI, Table 5) in particular the targets
of the loss reduction program (Annex 5, paras. 28-34) and the legal establishment of the CNE (Annex
5, paras. 5-7). A second set of amendments, revising the loss reduction targets and making the
establishment of the CNE a third tranche condition, was agreed upon to enable disbursement of the
second tranche to take place on August 23, 1989. Also, the closing date of the loan (June 30, 1989) was
extended until January 31, 1990. After the exchanges that took place between the Government of
Colombia and the Bank leading to this second set of amendments, the Bank made it clear that it would
be very difficult to agree to any further amendments before the release of the third and last tranche.
Also, it had become clear that quick disbursing adjustment loans were not suitable instruments to support
the Colombian power sector.3
Cancellation of the Third Tranche
4.3    Undoubtedly the establishment of the Consejo Superior del Sector Electrico in charge of
monitoring, inter-alia, compliance with the PSAL program, improved significantly the monthly
supervision of the various action plans, in particular those relating to the preparation of studies, and
reduction of energy losses and receivables of government-owned utilities. The improved monitoring
system could not, however, ensure the compliance with targets requiring more fundamental institutional
and policy actions.
I Minutes of meeting of June 26, 1989 between Colombia's Minister of Finance and the Bank's LAC
Region Vice President.



7
4.4   In January 1990, the closing date of the PSAL had to be postponed a second time until September
30, 1990, because of continuing difficulties in the following three areas: (a) closing a large gap of the
sector 1990 financing plan; (b) reduction of energy losses and meeting revenue and efficiency targets of
sector utilities; and (c) delays in the annual audit report for the 1989 PSAL accounts.
4.5    By June 1990, satisfactory compliance with two main targets were still pending: (a) the sector
financing plan for 1990 was still showing an unresolved gap of some US$280 million; and (b) the loss
reduction targets for the sector as a whole were off the mark and in particular those of EEB were moving
into an increasing deteriorating trend (Annex 5, paras. 28-34). Also, substantial delays in the audit report
of the PSAL'a special account, and non-compliance with the specific accounts receivable commitments
of the Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB), were two more easily solvable issues that
iieeded to be addressed before disbursement of the third tranche.
4.6    The new Government administration that took office in August 1990 was convinced of the
imperative need to restructure the sector as a prerequisite to a sustainable solution of the critical sector
problems. It established a Task Force to recommend immediate actions to improve sector finances and
an action plan with different and more fundamental objectives than those of the PSAL (para 6.4). Based
on the recommendations of the Task Force, by mid September 1990 the new Government increased
tariffs, established a faster Tariff Adjustment Program (Resolution 90 superseded Resolution 86
covenanted under the PSAL), and begun an in-depth analysis to solve the structural financial and
Accounts Receivable problems of the sector by capitalizing the government-owned utilities.
4.7    Realizing that full compliance with the release conditions for the third tranche will require a new
set of amendments and one more extension of the closing date of the PSAL, and reasoning that the
reform needed by the power sector could be supported more appropriately in the context of the Public
Enterprises Reform Loan (then being processed by the Bank), and of a future sector investment operation,
by letter of September 25, 1990, the new Government informed the Bank its decision to relinquish
disbursement of the third tranche and let the PSAL expire on its closing date of September 30, 1990.
5. Results of the PSAL
Political and Economic Background
5.1    Throughout the period 1985-1990, the processing and implementation of the Sector Loan, and
the efforts of the Bank and sector authorities to restore the operational, commercial, and financial
conditions of the sector were complicated and delayed by economic difficulties and by political and
institutional factors: a series of internal and external shocks, high levels of inflation and devaluation,
increasing fiscal deficits, and a falling rate of economic growth. Annex 1 provides a brief recapitulation
of these factors and their economic impact as they occurred in a continuous chronological sequence.
Macroeconomic Objectives
5.2    The objective of improving current savings and mobilizing external funds to the power sector to
release internal resources towards other sectors, was not met. Lower than expected internal savings from
the power sector, and lower disbursement levels from external sources, forced the Government to distract



8
a substantial amount of funds totalling some US$793 million (from FODEX and commercial banks) to
meet the financing needs of the power sector during 1987-90 (Annex 2, paras. 6-9).
Investment
5.3    The overall 1987-90 investment target in dollar terms was met, and significant improvements
were introduced to the long term planning methodology of the power sector. But, because of delays in
creating the CNE, the deteriorating financial and commercial base of the sector, and the unresolved
institutional constraints, the physical targets of the investment program were only partially met. The
Guavio project incurred additional substantial cost and time overruns, 257% and 15% respectively (Annex
5, paras. 5-16).
Institutional
5.4    The goal of introducing sustainable institutional improvements in the sector was not met, despite
considerable efforts by the Government agencies and the team of high level Government officials in
charge of coordinating the implementation of the PSAL. The studies required to support the introduction
of the institutional and management improvement were largely completed on time. In contrast, the
recommendations of the studies were largely ignored. The principal reason being the lack of regional
and municipal commitment to change, which rendered the institutional reform goals of the program
unrealistic. (Annex 5, paras. 17-34).
Environmental and Social
5.5    The ambitious number of environmental and social institutional goals for the sector were
successfully met.  Noteworthy was the creation of an effective weighting system of critical parameters
to rank the environmental and social impact of hydropower and thermal projects, and its introduction into
the planning process of the sector. The targets specifically associated with the Guavio project, which was
being implemented under weak financial and managerial conditions, were also satisfactorily carried out
(Annexes 4 and 5).
Financial
5.6    As measured by key indicators for the years 1987-1990, the actual tariff and other financial
policies implemented during the PSAL led to a sector performance substantially below its forecast.
During 1987-90, rates deteriorated in real US-dollar terms by about 17%. The self financing ratio,
expected to increase from minus 12% up to 15.7% by 1990, dropped to minus 73.9%. Similarly, other
key ratios also deteriorated, or improved but significantly below expected targets. The financial
restoration of the sector was undermined by: lower rates in real terms; higher operating costs with
resulting considerably lower debt service capacity; insufficient progress in both the energy loss reduction
program, particularly in the case of EEB (Annex 5, para. 28-34) and in the collection of receivables owed
by Government or regional agencies (Annex 2, para. 14); and by the shifting priorities of the Government
in its effort to combat inflation and a falling rate of economic growth (Annex 1, paras. 2-5). The actual
and forecast performances of the sector are set forth in Annex 2.



9
Weighted Overall Results
5.7    An attempt has been made to provide and integrated assessment of the PSAL - lest the above
imperfect outcomes, when viewed piecemeal, may not do justice to the substantial achievements of the
PSAL, notwithstanding its implementation tensions and difficulties. The allocation of weights to the
expected and reported results of the principal components of the PSAL, renders a weighted overall
performance of 65%. Table 7 of Part III shows the criteria, individual weights, and arithmetic used.
While it would be difficult to reach consensus on the criteria and all the individual performance weights
used, a deliberate conservative approach was used in formulating and assigning values to them.
Impact and Sustainability of the PSAL and Other Parallel Processes
5.8   The catalogue of results reported in Annexes 1 through 5 does not reflect the overall contribution
of the PSAL and other ongoing events to the reform process of the sector. One of the most important
results was the increased consensus among the Government, sector officials, and public opinion on the
need for fundamental reform to address the sector problems on a sustainable basis. While the need for
sector reform had been felt for a number of years, the results of four processes could be regarded as
having been instrumental in helping focus the restructuring objectives of the ongoing reform of the
Colombian power sector:
- First, the high level of tension experienced during the implementation of the PSAL underlined
with conclusive clarity the growing ineffectiveness of the sector's accountability and regulatory
framework.
- Second, the energy pricing study prepared by the Bank (LA31E) in June 1990, pointed
eloquently to the pricing problems of the overall energy sector, to the serious inefficiencies
derived from the pervasive maintenance of a series of implicit subsidies in the power sector, and
in particular to the existence of a substantial amount of regressive subsidies to large residential
consumers - the study left no doubt that the ongoing tariff adjustment program under Resolution
086 had to be revised.
e Third, the results of the OED report on the Evolution of Colombia's Power Sector (para. 9.2)
highlighted the need for structural sector reform and a new legal and regulatory framework.
* Finally, the power sector reform and privatization processes in the UK, Spain, New Zealand,
and in particular that of Chile which towards the end of 1990 was already showing measurable
positive results, abetted strong emulating forces (para.9.2).
5.9    The impact and sustainability of the sector improvements resulting from the PSAL were doubtful
at the time of the cancellation of the third tranche. However, the significant sector achievements since
then (paras. 9.2-9.6) triggered by the above mentioned processes, provide a basis for cautious optimism.
The sustainability of these achievements, and their further consolidation, would depend on the success
of the recommended commitment-lending by the Bank (para. 9.7).



10
6. Conclusions
Performance of the Goverrunent
6.1    The expectation that the PSAL would increase the capacity of the Government to ensure the
timely carrying out of all the specified measures to rehabilitate the power sector proved to be unfounded.
The Government placed a higher priority on the implementation of macroeconomic policies (including
a faster devaluation of the ColS) which were devoid of actions to allay likely unfavorable impacts on the
savings capacity of the power sector. These policies, and the lack of mechanisms to ensure commitment
to the objectives of the adjustmnent program by the municipal and regional utilities, had and adverse effect
and resulted in increased contributions by the power sector to the public sector deficit.
6.2    Part II, paras. 186-192, underline specific shortcomings of the Government's performance. It
is clear that those related to the design of the PSAL also apply to the performance of the Bank, namely:
unrealistic goals more suited to investment than to quick disbursing operations; overestimation of the
Government's capacity to ensure commitment to the PSAL from the regional and municipal utilities;
underestimation of the effect of agreeing to financial targets based on optimistic assumptions and poor
financial estimates; and insufficient knowledge of all pertinent institutional constraints.
6.3    Due note should be made of the larger amount of intellectual and executive resources deployed
by the Government and sector agencies, particularly during those times approaching the scheduled
disbursement dates of the various tranches of the PSAL.' These efforts were instrumental not only in
the preparation of the two amendments that were required to effect the first two tranches of the PSAL,
but also in the creation of consensus on the need for sector reform.
6.4    Convinced of the need for reform, the new Government that took office in August 1990, with
Bank support, and an ad-hoc high-level Working Group carried out a substantial action plan (para. 9.2).
By December 1991, the Working Group had drafted an electricity Bill to introduce a new sector policy
aimed at: (a) fostering competition by creating a wholesale market for electricity and an open-access
transmission network with possible participation by the private sector; (b) introducing regulation of the
sector in order to prevent monopolistic behavior and ensure economic pricing where market mechanisms
are ineffective; (c) disengaging the Government from direct participation in electricity production through
divestment of power plants; (d) undertaking the development of new power plants with private sector
participation; (e) rehabilitating deteriorated utilities with the ultimate view of privatizing them; and (f)
creating a Grid Operator Company to manage the transmission system and to act as a clearing house in
wholesale market transactions.
Performance of the Bank
6.5    As for the Bank's performance, there were also strengths and weaknesses. The strengths of the
Bank were in providing support in: (a) developing a comprehensive approach toward investment
' During the implementation of the PSAL three specific missions from the Government visited the
Bank Headquarters for about one full week each, during February and March 1989, December 1989, and
August 1990. These missions consisted of delegations of high Government and sector officials, led by
the Vice-Minister of Mines and Energy.



11
programming in line with macroeconomic, environmental and social parameters; (b) attempting to
strengthen the financial planning and reporting capabilities of the sector; (c) fostering review of the
organizational and ownership structure of the sector; and (d) strengthening the regulation of environmental
and social aspects of the sector and addressing important environmental problems resulting from the
investment program, in particular those of the Guavio project.
6.6    The sector's financial performance fell short of what was expected at appraisal. Given this
shortfall, was the loan justified or timely as doubted by some EDs (para. 3.12)? The answer is clearly
positive. At the time there was an urgent need for external loans to support Colombia's overall
adjustment program if there were to be a chance that it would succeed, and the Sector Loan plus the
parallel cofmancing investment loans it helped attract from the Eximbank of Japan and the MDB served
to meet this need (Annex 2, para. 6). The subsequent extent of the Government's difficulties in
addressing macroeconomic problems (Annex 1, paras. 3-5) as well as the extent of the problems in
relation to inflation, public sector deficits, foreign exchange problems, and those caused by faster
devaluation of the ColS to producers of non-tradeables like the power sector, could not have been fully
foreseen.
6.7    At appraisal the President's Report (PR) recognized risks associated with: (i) possible failure to
timely secure the envisaged cofinancing levels; (ii) regional resistance to more centralized planning and
stronger monitoring and regulation; (iii) market volatility; (iv) the pace of tariff increases particularly in
the event of adverse developments in expected inflation; and (v) the forthcoming increase in municipality
independence from the central government that might affect the tariff adjustment program. Only the first
and fourth risks had assurances that the Government would take all necessary measures to cover them.
The remaining risks, clearly outside the direct control of the Government, were only flagged in the PR
but no plan, strategy or up-front conditionality was given as an indication that they had been reasonably
covered. Three important risks were not anticipated: Devaluation of the Col$ faster than inflation (Annex
1, para. 7), protracted Government commitment to monitor the PSAL (Annex 5, para. 18), and
constraints to effective supervision due to lack of timely and consistent sectoral financial data (para. 8.4).
6.8    Soon after loan-signing implementation of the PSAL became extremely difficult. The identified
risks turned into certitudes, further complicated by the effect of the unanticipated risks. In retrospect,
these risks were not hedged adequately. It was not sufficient to point out that the risk of deviations will
be addressed through specific yearly measures to be defined during the annual reviews of the updated
investment and financial plans for the sector and by reference to the Bank's intention to supervise
implementation of the PSAL closely.
6.9    The PR did not indicate the performance status of the Bank's active power sector operations, and
did not evaluate properly its effect on the design of the PSAL. When preparing the PSAL there were
nine investment loans to the power sector, approved since 1978, at various implementation stages,
totalling US$1.3 billion, and equivalent to 81% of the historical total to the sector: three to EEB, three
to EPM, one to CORELCA, one to ISA, and ONE to 'FEN (Part III, Table 1, items 22-30). While the
physical aspects of these loans, with the exception of Guavio, were being implemented largely without
major problems, there was a critical pattern of increasing non-compliance with most of the institutional,
financial and operational efficiency aspects (loss reduction, accounts receivable, return on rate base,
contribution to investment).



12
6.10   Faced with the above situation and the need to continue having commitments for remedial actions,
the Bank opted for an approach based on proliferation of conditionalities.' This approach added
considerably to both the time and effort required to prepare, appraise and negotiate the PSAL, and to the
difficulty in verifying satisfactory performance as a condition of releasing the various tranches of such
a loan. This ambitious attempt at correcting a serious status of non-compliance with multiple operations
without updating their respective covenants, and improving sector performance by tying disbursement to
tranches at relatively short intervals, did not work out satisfactorily (para. 4.2).
6.11   The Bank placed too great a reliance on the Government's ability to provide either equity
contributions from its own resources to cover any shortfalls in cofinancing funds, or in its resolve to
depart from the Tariff Adjustment Program (TAP) of Resolution 86 to make up for any shortfalls in funds
to be generated internally. In fact and until September 1990, the Government and the utilities regarded
the TAP of Resolution 86 as non-negotiable, and expected to make up for any shortfalls, regardless of
cause, exclusively through additional borrowing from FODEX and other types of long and short-term
borrowing (Annex 2, para. 8)
6.12   The Bank was also unrealistic to assume that ownership of the considerable amount of action
plans, and rehabilitation and reform targets of the adjustment program would automatically be adopted
by the municipal and regional utilities under the incentive of obtaining financing from FEN if they did
perform. The results indicate that, in the absence of mechanisms to ensure performance (Part II, para.
192, 2nd. bullet) the utilities preferred to do without FEN financing than to comply with the more
fundamental conditions of the PSAL. As a result considerable amount of development financing through
FEN, for investments in distribution and loss reduction programs, remained undisbursed during the
implementation of the PSAL (Annex 5, para. 9).
6.13   As the Government had overall responsibility for influencing, enhancing and monitoring the
environment of the sector, this report concludes that until September 1990, the Government was unable
to accord the institutional, financial, and commercial rehabilitation of the sector sufficient priority
notwithstanding its commitments under the reform program. Thus, the influence of the Bank on
Colombian policy, during the implementation of the PSAL was less than anticipated.
7. Comments to the Government's Evaluation of the PSAL
7.1    Through FEN, the Government prepared a comprehensive and well documented completion report
of the PSAL. Part II reproduces complete translations of the most pertinent sections. They convey
important insights and capture quite eloquently the sentiment of the counterpart Government officials that
were involved in the design and implementation of the PSAL. While it may be difficult to reconcile the
numerous differing perceptions on the multiple stages and complex aspects of the PSAL, in general the
Bank agrees with the results and the conclusions presented in the Government's report. The operation
I In an effort to properly size the resources required by the sector and help establish an effective
monitoring system to implement the PSAL, the supervision mission of October 1988, determined that
some 139 tasks, actions and complex activities had to be carried out in order to implement the adjustment
program and comply with disbursement conditionalities of the PSAL.



13
was by no means perfect, but there is a clear agreement that a large number of impressive achievements
were made under the PSAL (Part II, paras. 182-184). The following clarifications, however, bear noting:
7.2    The flexibility of the Bank (Part II paras. 179-180) was shown through out.  During
implementation the Bank agreed to amend the PSAL targets and conditionalities twice to enable
disbursement of the first two tranches, and extend the closing date of the PSAL also twice. It is clear
that any more flexibility would not have been prudent in the context of an adjustment operation.
7.3    The information requested by the Bank was in line with normal supervision requirements to
monitor the large number of complex undertakings of the adjustment program. The tensions on this
aspect of the PSAL reflect the failure of both the Bank and the Borrower to establish up-front all the
required reporting resources and systems.
7.4    The technical assistance (TA) provided by the Bank (Part II, para. 181) was substantial. It
included the TA components of the eight ongoing Bank loans to EEB, GUAVIO, EPM, ISA, FEN, and
CORELCA (para. 6.9). In addition there was substantial indirect TA transferred during the supervision
of the PSAL in the areas of pricing (an energy pricing study was delivered to the Government in June
1990) environment, resettlement, planning, loss reduction monitoring, and in the strengthening of the
reporting hardware and software capacity including through the SINSE. Therefore the assertion regarding
a dearth of technical assistance is unfounded. Further, the PSAL did not include a significant sector-wide
TA component to supplement the ongoing project specific TA linked to outstanding loans because the
quick disbursing adjustment operation is not a suitable vehicle for TA. The medium to long term time
frame needed for a TA program does not match the accelerated disbursement format of adjustment
operations. Had a need for sector-wide TA been justified, a TA loan parallel to the PSAL could have
been processed. Both, the Government's and the Bank's preparation teams, however, deemed that no
complementary TA loan was necessary to the success of the PSAL.
7.5    The ESMAP program sponsored the SINSE project (Sistema de Informacion del Sector Electrico).
It was designed to enhance the regulatory transparency of the sector by producing a reliable and consistent
Management Information System including a uniform system of accounts - a long felt need of the sector.
It was launched in February 1989, and its design tardily completed in April 1991. Unfortunately the
need, impact and sustainability of the SINSE were not tied to the covenants of any of the ongoing loans
-'the Bank. Not being part of the reform objectives of the sector it now appears that the important
SINSE initiative has been shelved.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The long list of pertinent lessons indicated in Part II (paras. 196-212) result from having
structured the PSAL without the support of what are now standard Bank requirements for adjustment
operations: (a) clear and complementary country and sector strategies derived from in depth country and
sector work; (b) strong internalization of the reform objectives and implementation sequence; (c) tayloring
the operations to a comprehensively appraised regulatory institutional capacity to implement the reform
program; (d) avoiding complex operations with excessive conditionality; (e) obtaining updated financial
information; (e) effective creation of a monitoring system; and (f obtaining appropriate up-front
conditionality. These requirements were derived from the lessons of some 99 adjustments operations



14
carried out by the Bank during 1980-1991 in 42 countries.6 Although some concepts may be repeated,
the following paragraphs refer to lessons which are particular to this PSAL operation.
8.2   The experience under this loan demonstrates the importance of carefully evaluating the political
and economic context in which a project will take place. The conditions of political and economic
tensions that prevailed throughout the implementation of the PSAL severely limited the ability of the Bank
to influence the decisions of Colombia's policy makers. An active dialogue to ensure coordination
between macroeconomic and sectoral policy dynamics is particularly critical to the success of
infrastructure sector adjustment operations.
8.3   The policies and regulatory framework of the sector should also be assessed with a view to
determining whether the sector context is conducive to the successful completion of the project under
consideration. Because the policies and regulatory framework of the Colombian power sector were
fragmented and ineffective, progress in implementation was hampered. A clear technical and politically
phased strategy should have been defined before proceeding with the project.
8.4    Historically, there had been considerable difficulties, including during the implementation of the
PSAL, in obtaining reliable and consistent financial information of the many power companies which
make up the sector (Annex 5 paras. 17, 20).' The PSAL did not attempt to address this fundamental
regulatory shortcoming that had been identified under Loan 1582-CO in 1980 and forgotten until the 1989
ESMAP-supported SINSE project (para. 7.5). The SINSE would have enabled the Government to
improve the regulatory transparency and monitoring effectiveness of the sector. To this end, a competent
auditing firm should have been engaged to assist the Power Sector Regulatory Agency to review the
SINSE initiative, and propose proper regulations for the timely production of reliable and consistent
sector financial statements based on a uniform system of accounts for the sector.
8.5   The lack of a long term sectoral strategy paper updated at regular intervals contributed to the
inadequacy of institutional memory. It allowed awareness of key sectoral shortcomings such as the
above, to be lost in the change of staff assigned to the sector. Sectoral strategy papers are an important
tool for maintaining institutional memory over time.
8.6    Changing the nature of the operation late in the processing pipeline should be avoided. It is clear
that the PSAL changes from adjustment to investment and finally back to adjustment operation had an
important effect in the complex design of the PSAL (paras. 3.7-3.8). In instances where the form of the
operation must change for internal bureaucratic reasons, the integrity of the project and the consistency
between the form and substance of its implementation strategy merit close reevaluation.
8.7   The significant difficulties experienced in applying the quick disbursing adjustment approach to
a sector with complex structural problems that will take a long time to assess, much less untangle and
internalize, should be recognized. For example, in releasing the first and second tranches of this loan
in June 1988 and August 1989, reliance was placed on estimates of sector performance to determine
6 Report No. 10870, World Bank Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Operations: The Second OED
Overview - June 30, 1992.
7 This shortcoming has also been underlined in the OED Report No 8893: Colombia The Power
Sector and the World Bank, 1970-1987, Vol I, paras. 29, 30, 114, 115, 133, and 139.



15
whether the PSAL was being carried out satisfactorily. Those estimates proved to be misleading (Annex
2, Table 3 and Graphs 1-8. Unless there is substantial upfront policy action including an effective
reporting and monitoring system, it is impractical to enter into quick disbursing operations in a sector
whose problems requiring medium to long term solutions have not been strategically sequenced, or
where accurate and reliable information is not timely available (para. 8.4). The sector approach requires
comprehensive consideration of all significant aspects of sector performance phased over a realistic period
of time.
9. Future Bank Support
9.1    Should the disappointing adjustnent performance of the sector during the implementation of the
PSAL, which continued the existing pattern of incomplete compliance with covenants, lead to the
conclusion that the Bank should discontinue support for Colombia's power sector? The answer should
be no, provided that the proposed reforms (Electricity Law) and effective regulatory transparency
(through a SINSE) are implemented, for two principal reasons. First, the difficulties in implementing
the PSAL helped to convince Colombian officials of the need to reform the power sector and increased
their commitment to developing an adequate policy and regulatory framework. This commitment
represents a positive change in the environment for future power projects, and reduction of the
unfavorable conditions that hindered the PSAL. Second, the Bank can offer important comparative
advantages in assisting the reform of the power sector, which must occur to permit continued economic
growth in Colombia. The Bank could bring to the reform process experience across countries in the
power sector, coordination and consensus building skills, and positive working relationships developed
with counterparts through previous projects such as the PSAL.
9.2    The effectiveness of the Bank's continued support and technical assistance immediately after the
PSAL has been demonstrated. The reform process, which followed a phased approach, was designed by
the Government and the Bank in December 1990. The first phase, sponsored with ESMAP funds, was
formally launched in March 1991 at a sector wide seminar in Santa Marta where the results of the OED
evaluation of the power sector', presented by the Bank, were widely debated. Immediately thereafter,
a high level task force staffed with representatives from the sector agencies and supported by consultants,
reviewed and sharpened the issues and options for institutional reform, and recommended a new sector
structure and implementation program. The first phase ended in July 1991 with a seminar and a
workshop where the Government, backed by sector authorities, firmly endorsed the power sector
restructuring program. The second phase (between August and December, 1991), led by a larger task
force with considerable consulting support, produced a draft Electricity Bill currently being discussed in
the Congress. A third, much more resource-intensive phase, initiated by the end of 1992, aims at
producing the detailed power sector regulations based on the Government's policy and the findings of
Phase 2. The consultants hired for the development of phases 2 and 3 have been financed by the Bank
through the Public Sector Reform Loan.
' OED, Colombia-The Power Sector and the World Bank. 1970-1987, Report No. 8893 (June 28,
1990). This report, developed during a two year period with the participation of Colombian experts,
identified many of the structural weaknesses of the power subsector and recommended its reform through
the introduction of adequate regulation and private sector participation.



16
9.3    Since the closing date of the PSAL to date, the Bank's participation in institutional reform has
matured into a well developed process. It is already showing tangible results such as the creation of the
Energy Regulatory Commission, the unbundling of the generation and transmission assets of ISA, and
a firm commitment to setting up a workable competitive market for electricity generation.
9.4    To continue supporting the implementation of institutional reforms to introduce market
mechanisms and efficiency incentives in the energy sector, the Bank is currently processing a US$15
million Technical Assistance operation. It will further facilitate private sector participation, pricing
reform, effective regulation, demand side management and environmental protection.
9.5    Effective Government action has also materialized in the area of private sector participation
through (i) the installation of 95 MW (Mamonal) of private generation in an industrial complex in
Cartagena, (ii) a 150 MW BOO contract (La Sevillana) with a foreign contractor, (both of these projects
are already in operation), (iii) a 750 MW BOO contract (Barranquilla) awarded and currently being
negotiated, (iv) invitations to bid for a 200 MW BOO (Termovalle) and (v) the ongoing divestment of
Betania, a 500 MW hydro power plant. The generation capacity of these plants totaling 1695 MW
represent 17 % of the total installed capacity in Colombia today. These developments are to be followed
shortly by the organization of the open access network operated by an independent transmission company.
9.6   In retrospect, these achievements should be seen as the consequence of the Bank's contribution
to the definition of a new vision for the power sector by (a) supporting the diagnosis of the sector's
problems - ESMAP 1986, OED 1990; (b) attempting ambitious adjustment targets for addressing them -
- PSAL 1988; (c) fostering consensus on systemic deficiencies, the need for reform action, and the
design of a reform program starting with the power subsector -OED seminars and ESMAP TA in 1991;
and (d) by supporting the implementation of this program (PERL 1992, and the proposed TA loan -
para. 9.4).
9.7    Under present circumstances, Bank support for carrying out the ongoing reform of the power
sector (para. 9.2) should rely on commitment lending for technical assistance and normal project
investments that disburse over realistic time periods. The minimum necessary objectives for further Bank
support should be to improve regulatory transparency, financial, economic and environmental efficiency,
and the increase of effective competition through private sector participation. These objectives should
be achieved by the implementation of the SINSE (para. 7.5), effective competition through increasing
participation of private investors, consistency with a least-cost investment program of all investments not
undertaken by the private sector, achievement of loss-reduction and energy conservation targets, and
consolidation of the environmental and resettlement-social policies of the sector.



17
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Backgouxnd
1.01         In compliance with Section 1.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower prepared
and sent to the Bank a completion report of the project. Based in part on this first report, the Bank
prepared a draft PCR and sent it for comments to the Borrower. By fax of May 13, 1994, the
Borrower through FEN sent a no comments letter.
1.02         The completion report prepared by the Borrower is entitled "COMPLETION
REPORT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE - POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
2889-CO." This comprehensive and well-documented report gives an account, from the standpoint of
the implementation agencies, of the evolution of the sector economic indicators and of the preparation
and implementation stages of the project. For future reference, the Borrower's report has been
included in the project file.
1.03          To reflect the Borrower's views on the main achievements and lessons learnt, this
section contains English translations of the cover; the Table of Contents; and highlights of the
following key sections: Introduction; Results and Limitations: Design and execution of the program;
Conclusions; and Lessons.
2.0   Translation of Selected Sections of the Borrower's Report
2.01 Borrower's Report - Cover
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
PART II
COMPLETION REPORT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
FINANCIERA ENERGETICA NACIONAL S.A. "FEN"
(LUIS BERNARDO FLOREZ ENCISO - Consultant)
Santa Fe de Bogota, May 1992



18               Part II - Borrower's Perspective
2.02 Borrower's Report - Table of Contents
[Nt: From the following table of contents, only the salient parts of items shown in bold
(1,6,7 and 8) have been translated and included in this Part II of the report]
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    INTRODUCTION
2.    GENERAL ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK 1987-1990
2.1    The Economic and Social Plan 1987-1990
-     Fiscal Policy
-     External Policy
-     Public Spending
2.2    Principal Results
-     Balance of Payments
-     External Financing
-     External Debt
-     Fiscal Deficit
-     Inflation, Employment and Growth
-     The Modernization Program 1990
3.    THE POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM AND THE WORLD BANK
SECTOR LOAN
3.1   The Power Sector Adjustment Program 1987-1990
3.2   The Sector Adjustment Loan 2889-CO
-     Background
-     Objectives and Actions
-     Conditions and Commitments
-     Benefits and Risks
-     Disbursements and Times
4.    RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING
PLAN
4.1    The 1987-1990 Investment Program
-     The Goals and Attainment of Them
4.2   The Financing Plan
-     The Obstacles and the Results of the Plan
-     FODEX and the Contingent Plan
-     ISA as Source of Financing
4.3    The Expansion Plan 1991-2000
4.4    Rate Policy



19            Part II - Borrower's Perspective
5.    RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: INSTITUTIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
ASPECTS
5.1    General Institutional and Regulatory Changes
5.2    Accounts Receivable Recovery Plan
5.3   Loss Reduction Program
5.4    Rehabilitation Plan, ICEL and CORELCA Groups
5.5   EEEB Reorganization Plan
5.6    Guavio Project
5.7    Environmental and Socioeconomic Programs
5.8    Adjustment Program Monitoring
6.    RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: DESIGN AND EXECUTION OF THE
PROGRAM
6.1    Most Important Changes Relating to the PSAL
6.2    Design and Execution of the Program
-     Commitments and Conditions
-       lNon-compliance with the Financing Plan and its
Implications
6.3    Relations Between the Bank and Colombia
7.    CONCLUSIONS
8.    LESSONS
ANNEXES
A.    Background: General Development 1980-1986
B.    Financing Plan: Attainment of Goals
C.    Development of the Investment Program
D.    Policy Letters From the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Mines and Energy
(Summaries)
E.    Summary of Principal Government Communications
F.    Summary of Principal Bank Communications
G.    Summaries of Aide-Memoires, World Bank Missions
H.    Graphs
I.    Bibliography
TABLES
1     Financing Plan 1987-90: Comparison Based on Reports (US$ Millions)
2     Financing Plan 1987-90, CONPES Estimates of 1987, Cash Flow (USS Millions)
3     Principal Assumptions for Projections and Profits and Losses
4     Financing Plan: Comparison between Proposed and Actual Results
5     Projected Status in January 1989 (USS Millions)



20             Part 11 - Borrower's Perspective
6      Profit and Loss Statement (US$ Millions)
7      Origin and Use of Funds (US$ Millions)
8     Actual Cash Operations 1987-90 (USS Millions)
9      Energy Sales and Current Payments: Differences Due to the Exchange Rate (USS
Millions)
10    Actual Cash Operations ($ Current)
11    Actual Cash Operations ($ 1987 Constant)
12    Adjustment Plan Disbursements: Comparison Between Proposed and Actual Results
13    Development of Long Term Debt (US$ Millions)
14    Principal Financial Indicators: Comparison Between Proposed and Actual Results
15    Loss Reduction Program: Goals and Actual Results



21                Part 11 - Borrower's Perspective
1. INTRODUCTION
1.           This project completion report contains the ex-post evaluation of the power sector
adjustment Loan 2889-CO for US$300 million from the World Bank to the Republic of Colombia, as
one of the actions taken under the Power Sector Adjustment Program carried out between 1987 and
1990. Pursuant to the contract signed by the consultant and Financiera Energetica Nacional 'FEN,"
this report was prepared in accordance with the methodological guides provided by the World Bank.
2.           This loan operation was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in November
1987. Its estimated disbursement period was 15 months, but from the very start, ongoing
controversies and lengthy delays occurred. Loan effectiveness and the first disbursement of US$150
million did not take place until the loan agreement was amended in June 1988 to change the timetable
governing several of the actions agreed by the Government and the Bank. The second tranche, for
US$75 million, was not disbursed until August 1989, following an extension of the deadline and
another contract amendment. The deadline was extended for a second time until September 30, 1990,
but in view of the inability to reach agreement on the level of compliance with the conditions, the
Bank did not disburse the final tranche of US$75 million. In September 1990, the new government
requested cancellation of this disbursement and in January 1991, the Bank agreed to that cancellation
and closure of the loan effective September 30, 1990.
3.           The Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) bore novel characteristics in contrast with
the traditional loans that the World Bank had extended to finance investments in power sector
companies. Two areas stand out in this connection: one, a new approach to issues in this sector,
which attached importance to supporting reform policies aimed at resolving the structural, institutional
and financial problems of the electricity sector; and two, their contribution to the fiscal, foreign
exchange and external debt objectives set out in the country's macroeconomic program.
4.           As discussed in this report, the results in terms of making substantial changes in key
policy and sector management areas were limited: the wide array of actions undertaken during the
period did not advance the reorganization and financial recovery of the companies; and controlling the
impacts that the crisis in the sector had on the macroeconomic situation was based on the application
of alternative financing plans not provided for in the loan.
5.           To prepare this report, a detailed review was made of the principal documents,
memoranda and letters relating to development of the operation (Annexes D, E, F and G include
summaries of these materials). Furthermore, the consultant had the opportunity to exchange opinions
with the senior government officials and advisors of the 1987 to 1990 period who participated in the
negotiation, approval and execution of this loan. These interviews enabled the consultant to have a
fuller view of the situation and were extremely useful in analyzing the complex matters that had come
up during execution of the loan.
6.           This report has eight chapters, this included, and nine annexes. Chapters 2 and 3
delve into the analysis of the general economic framework for the period 1987-1990 and the
objectives and policies of the sector adjustment program and the operation of the loan covered in this
evaluation. Chapters 4 to 6 evaluate the results and limitations of the loan, focusing on three major
themes, in order: financing plan and investment program; administrative and institutional aspects;
and design and global execution of the program. The last two chapters summarize the principal
conclusions and the lessons that this loan has taught the Colombian government. The annexes,
besides the topics mentioned in the preceding paragraph, cover the following areas: analysis of



22                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
general economic and sector conditions prior to adoption of the adjustment plan (Annex A);
evaluation of fulfillment of the goals projected in the financial plan, with pertinent comparative
information (Annex B); description of the investment prograrn as executed (Annex C); and
presentation of several illustrative graphs on developments during the period (Annex H); bibliography
(Annex I).
7.           Finally, the consultant wishes to give his special recognition to Dr. Carlos Garcia for
his valuable and timely collaboration in preparing this report. Thanks also go to Dr. Alberto
Rodriguez, the FEN Lending Vice President, for his cooperation and Dr. Teresita Alvarez, a
professional staff member of FEN, for her very effective assistance in obtaining the documents and
preparing the financial information required for this report.
6. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: DESIGN AND EXECUTION OF THE PROGRAM
156.         This chapter intends to evaluate the results and accomplishments of the PSAL from a
broader perspective than that of the preceding chapters. It examines the concept and development of
the principal policies and actions to which the Government of Colombia committed itself to secure the
loan support of the World Bank.
157.         The principal conclusions drawn here relate to the design of the PSAL and the
viability of the objectives it sought to achieve in those four years. In particular, it would appear
excessive to say that this program was oriented toward adopting structural reforms in the power sector
at all levels despite the intentions and willingness of those who participated in preparing it. It would
be more appropriate to underscore that what this program sought was less ambitious, but necessary
nonetheless: that the sector should deal as best as it could with the fmnancial difficulties of the period
1987-1990; that it should nitia  a series of actions that would lay the groundwork for more efficient
performance in the future; and especially, that the negative effects on the exchange and fiscal stability
and the macroeconomic policies of the country should be kept to a minimum.
158.         It is possible that the lack of a common ground of understanding on the scope of the
work among the different players, both internal and external provided a weak base for a clear
dialogue between the parties. Likewise, this factor could have added to the difficulty of redesigning
the program and finding other effective and better timed solutions. As a consequence, in the end, the
government was forced to commit significant additional resources to the sector far beyond those
originally planned.
6.1 MOST IMPORTANT CHANGES RELATING TO THE PSAL
159.         The most novel component of the adjustment plan approved by the Government of
Colombia and in the operation of the World Bank loan was the shift of emphasis made by both parties
and the renewed focus on the diagnosis of the financial crisis affecting the electricity utilities. In
effect, when the program and the loan were designed, the emphasis was on sectoral issues. Also,
discussions were started about how all the components involved in the development of the financial
crisis were interacting, and the potential that each had to resolve this crisis on a solid footing.
160.         The issues on the new agenda of discussions had the common denominator of
economic efficiency and modernization of business management. These issues had surfaced in a
relatively isolated fashion during earlier discussions when direct loans were negotiated for the utilities.



23                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
The most significant dealing with the sector, from the standpoint of World Bank action, came in 1967
which ultimately led to the creation of ISA.
161.         From the standpoint of the Colombian government, several times it had attempted to
deal with the sector in a way that would go beyond handling the recurring financial crises of the
electricity utilities. However, it was not until 1985 that some consolidated financial statements for the
power sector became available, along with a system to monitor the cash financial management of the
utilities, both of which made it possible to study the evolution of sector finances in fuller detail.
162.         However, the general redirection of the less optimistic approach to the problems in
the power sector lacked a more objective reading of the Colombian government's ability to control all
the utilities, and also missing was an evaluation about the risks of further deterioration of the financial
situation in both the national and international arenas.
163.         Furthermore, it was not possible to factor in the effect that on-going evaluations
within the World Bank, especially the evaluation being conducted by OED (Operations Evaluation
Department) and the review of the Third World electricity loans policy, and what effect they could
have on the follow-up of a loan such as 2889-CO and on the position Bank staff took in their
assessment of the actions that the Government of Colombia was taking.
6.2. DESIGN AND EXECUTION OF THE PROGRAM
164.         The body of matters discussed and agreed between the Government of Colombia and
the World Bank corresponded in fact to what could be considered essential medium and long term
objectives to carry out the structural reform of the sector (chapter 3). However, one observation here
would be that the actions established to achieve those objectives proved insufficient for those
purposes:
(i)  In regulatory matters, the mechanisms set out in the PSAL did not truly
constitute a new framework of rules and procedures for coordination and
operation of power sector companies.
(ii)  In institutional issues, the creation of the National Energy Commission
represented a substantial step forward to include power sector planning as part
of energy policy. However, there was no clear redefinition of the
responsibilities and functions held at other planning and control levels. That,
for example, was the case of ISA, in which precedence was given to the
Bank's insistence on centralizing within this company the ownership and
construction of new generating plants. In addition, no progress was made in
developing a new design for the organizational and market structures of the
regional utilities.
(iii)  In connection with the rehabilitationpla  of the weakest companies (ICEL
and CORELCA groups), it can be stated that the emphasis of the action plan
was oriented to improve their critical finances and their administrative
management rather than to assess the need for strategies for structural reform.
This was the case despite the agreements on the need to define the long-term
objectives and policies of these groups.



24                 Part II - Borrower's Perspective
165.          The sectoral and aggregated approach of the financing plan and its goals, which was
not only a novel element but also an essential one to deal with the complex cross-relations and
intertwined conditions among the power sector utilities, was not supported in the end by a
simultaneous approach to deal with the individual problems and specific solutions for them. In this
respect, four difficulties stem from that lack of supplementary support:
(i) Not enough emphasis was put on the different nature of the financial
problems that each of the utilities in the sector faced and that they also
needed different solutions. As was revealed in the ex-post analysis, financial
solutions that would have been viable for companies facing lack of liquidity
proved totally inadequate for problems of insolvency.
(ii) The projections could not reflect in all their magnitude the impacts that the
long-running failure to meet energy payments by almost all the member
utilities would have had on the financial situation of ISA.
(iii) Computations of the sector's aggregate deficit systematically underestimated
that deficit since they assumed implicitly that there would be transfers from
the surplus entities to the deficit entities, a transfer that was in no way
guaranteed since there were no legal mechanisms or procedures in place for
that purpose.
(iv)   The impact of the many and complex interrelations among the power
sector's utilities was underestimated in terms of their operational and
financial relations.
166.          During the process of executing the program and the loan, internal divergences arose
among the different parties regarding the critical areas and solutions: for the economic authorities,
the most important were issues of macroeconomic order and financial discipline among the utilities;
for the power sector authorities, it was important to balance the aspirations of the utilities against the
commitments assumed in the area of action measures (pricing, receivables, energy losses), but they
did not have available to them effective mechanisms to secure compliance with the goals; and for the
utilities, the essential matter related to fullest execution of the investment program.
167.          Into this environment a certain disassociation of responsibilities came about. The
government assumed much of the burden of ensuring, no matter how, the funds needed to meet the
utilities' external debt obligations. These companies, in turn, largely free of that basic financial
responsibility, did not see it as necessary to be more tightly disciplined in generating more income
and controlling current expenditures. To a certain extent, then, the country's successes in maintaining
its credit-worthy status and an adequate macroeconomic environment were achieved at the cost of
what, for some, was financial and institutional disorder in the power sector. It is symptomatic, for
example, that the 'forced compliance' agreements signed by the utilities with the Ministry of Mines
had no real practical effect since noncompliance did not triggered any difficulties for the companies.
168.          Differences in policy priorities and the ranking of commitments were evident in the
relations between the Government of Colombia and the World Bank. For the Government, as said
before, it was essential to bring to a happy end the debt strategy it had adopted and to control the
impact that the sector was having on aggregated indicators of external debt, investment and fiscal
deficit, so that it could reorient public investment into new social and infrastructure programs within a
framework of stability. On the other hand the Bank, which shared those priorities in the program



25                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
design, exerted pressures on each of the actions and the commitments which it viewed almost
individually, during execution of the program and, in any event, it did so without giving due
consideration to the development of the macroeconomic situation. From this perspective, the Bank
missions did not share the government's urgency to receive timely payment of the fund disbursements
stipulated in the financing plan.
Commitments and Conditions
169.         A review of the commitments signed and the conditions accepted by the Government
of Colombia reveals, among others, the following traits: (i) a considerable number of actions to take
and a variety of ambitious goals to be achieved in very short terms; (ii) a complete lack of priorities
for this variety of action measures and commitments in which policies with very different scopes and
impacts were all put on the same level: thus, to agree to disburse the loan tranches or not, it was all
the same for the Bank to have approved a least Cost Expansion Plan or to have received the
preliminary administrative enhancement program for CORELCA and ICEL; (iii) the relations among
the objectives, the actions and the goals stipulated in the PSAL were not spelled out clearly; (iv) too
many studies were made that did not necessarily lead to immediate adoption of action measures, no
matter how important they might have been. In this context, it is obvious that not all the
requirements established to ensure the disbursements were related to the central objectives pursued in
the program and the loan.
170.         In looking at the correspondence between the government and the Bank, it is not easy
to see the underlying causes that led to the delays in the second disbursement and the ultimate
cancellation of the third (Annexes E and F). It does not appear to be a simple matter of deciding
which of the two was right. In effect, many letters from the Government of Colombia noted the
substantial progress made on the actions and that it considered them highly satisfactory. For their
part, the responses from the World Bank focused steadily on details regarding the failure to achieve
some of the many action steps required to release the disbursements. The context actually appears to
suggest another interpretation: the dialogue between the parties turned increasingly troublesome and
neither the Bank missions nor staff responsible for supervising and monitoring the loan helped
develop a more productive understanding that would clear the way for the loan and make it easier to
find additional agreements.
171.         Consequently, it appears reasonable to argue, in connection with the partial or total
compliance with the loan commitments, that an increasingly wider gap developed in the issues of the
dialogue. The government's analyses emphasized the fiscal and exchange implications of the
financing gaps of the sector and verified the advance of program actions in terms of the overall
trends. The Bank's studies emphasized microeconomic aspects and details of timetables and the
deadlines for each action or commitment. In this perspective, naturally, grounds for noncompliance
could always be found. Ihis debate was present throughout most of the period but it became
increasingly more intense.
Non-compliance with the Financing Plan and its Implications
172.         Annex B examines in detail the assumptions and goals set in the program and the
results obtained during the period. It clearly shows major differences between the principal
assumptions adopted for the projections and the final figures. The analysis shows that, with the
exception of the projected investment levels, the financing plan's goals were not achieved, when one
takes into account each of its major components (internal fund generation, financial deficit, sector
debt). The process of executing the loan, in summary, entailed enormous differences between what



26                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
was programmed and what was achieved. All in all, as chapter 4 indicates, this should come as no
surprise, considering that since the end of 1987 and in a number of CONPES documents of 1988 and
1989, there had been insistent warnings on these matters2.
173.          The wide gap left by lower internal fund generation and very low execution of the
US$1.330 million from the sector loan (disbursements equivalent to only 42% of programmed
amount) meant that the government had to raise money that it had not budgeted amounting to
US$1.240 million (Annex B), both to replace sources and to cover added deficits.
174.          This significant additional effort, totaling more than 2.5 points of GDP in 1990, was
funded by mobilizing domestic savings (through FODEX) and channeling new external debt that could
be transferred to the power utilities. The most important implication of this phenomenon was the
inability to meet in full the financing priorities for the physical and social infrastructure works
included in the poverty relief programs and the national rehabilitation plan. This situation generated
an extremely high opportunity cost and economic and social costs for long term development
programs in exchange for maintaining-by ways other than those defined in the PSAL-relative
stability on the exchange and fiscal fronts.
6.3 RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND COLOMBIA
175.         In connection with the 1987-1990 Power Sector Adjustment Program itself, at first
glance it might appear that the government went too far in accepting the large number of
commitments and conditions set in the PSAL, given the relatively low percentage of funding
committed by the Bank to the sector. However, the importance of Colombia's relations with the
Bank went beyond quantitative considerations:
(i)    General Bank support for economic and social policies has been considered
fundamental in dealings with the international lending community. Furthermore,
Bank support (and from the International Monetary Fund) in managing
macroeconomic policy has been one of the necessary elements of the external debt
strategy adopted by Colombia, especially to secure new loans from commercial
Banks.
(ii)    The resources provided by the Bank are used as a lever to secure other sources of co-
financing and they play a multiplier role in this way.
(iii) Traditionally, the Bank has been a standing source of financing for power sector investment
programs.
(iv)   Internally, the agreements between the government and the Bank constitute, to a
certain extent, one additional pressure mechanism that can prove useful in
accelerating compliance with sector commitments.
22. See, among others: CONPES, 'Situacion Financiers de; Sector Electrico a Mediano Plazo [Medium Term
Financial Status of the Power Sector]'. Document DNP-2.408, Bogota, January 11, 1989.
23. A detailed evaluation of these historical relations between the Bank and the power sector for the period
1970-1987 appears in the OED report entitled, 'Colombia: The Power Sector and the World Bank 1970-1987,'
op. cit.



27                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
176.          With this as the general context, the relations between Colombia and the Bank during
this period experienced, however, difficulties of different types. In the dialogue on macroeconomic
aspects and the structural reforms undertaken by the government, several discrepancies arose
regarding the scope and the speed of the reforms. From Colombia's standpoint, there appeared to be
a resistance by the Bank to its proposals that was inexplicable. These facts, in addition, manifested
themselves in an extremely slow pace in defining agreements and processing new operations that were
to support the reforms in progress. That also led to a slower pace in the disbursements of on-going
loans.
177.          These circumstances also affected the financing plan of the power sector. Apart from
the considerable delays in the PSAL disbursements and the cancellation of the last tranche, the
financing proposed by the government for 1990 included resources from a proposed loan supporting
public sector reforms that the government had discussed at length with the Bank. The expectation
was to secure disbursements amounting to US$200 million in 1990 which would go to the power
sector. The Bank thought, however, that this was not acceptable 'because it does not appear realistic
to count on those resources during this period' (see letter dated June 27, 1990, Annex F).
178.          During this process, the government also explored the possibility of securing a new
loan for the sector. This loan would cover the missing large financial sums projected for the period
1990-1992, amounting to US$1.5 billion. A joint IDB-World Bank mission indicated the
requirements in terms of medium and long term policies and requested a large volume of financial
and technical information which was provided by the government2'. This operation did not make
much headway, however.
179.          The general and sectoral relations during much of the period can be considered quite
critical and tense, on the whole. The Colombian side perceived a mounting rigidity in considering
other practical ways of dealing with the fast development of the financial crisis. Both the events in
terms of the general dialogue as well as the possible internal effects on the Bank that the findings of
the OED report could have produced must have been among the reasons behind this state of affairs.
180.          The requested information consumed large quantities of human resources. As a rule,
the analysis by the Bank stuck to the letter of the contract regarding the goals which were known in
advance to be unattainable in such a short time.
181.          The Bank only offered and put into progress one technical assistance project to create
the National Power Sector Implementation System (SINSE) which progressed very slowly and did not
yield results until 1991. The Bank offered no type of technical assistance within the framework of the
PSAL that could be considered either relevant or timely even though several study drafts had been in
the hands of ESMAP since 1987. As in the case of the expansion plan, unfounded expectations grew
with regard to financing some of these studies which were offered systematically by ESMAP staff on
their many visits. The funds for these studies appeared under the annual programming in the reports
of this joint World Bank-UNDP programn but were never committed during the period of the loan.
24. World Bank and IDB Mission, *Prestamo Propuesto de Inversion Sector Electrico [Proposed Power Sector
Investment Loan].' Aide-Memoire, October 26, 1989.



28                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
7. CONCLUSIONS
182.          The PSAL represented an undeniable advance in dealing with the problems of
Colombia's power sector by shifting the emphasis to a medium term proposal of sector reform that
took up central issues relating to regulatory, institutional and pricing matters, rationalizing investment,
administrative management and financial restructure. From the standpoint of the country's
macroeconomic goals, it was considered strategic for the objectives of reorienting investment into
sectors that were less intensive in capital and imports, supporting the external debt policy, boosting
internal fund mobilization, starting with appropriate pricing policies, and upgrading management of
the utilities.
183.          The PSAL had three important areas which need discussion because of their positive
impacts: (i) it served as a way of mobilizing additional co-financing resources to cover the financing
gap by having an implicit World Bank endorsement to display to commercial lending establishments;
(ii) it introduced environment and socioeconomic issues to the work agenda of the Govermnent of
Colombia and the World Bank, and to the basic criteria for national electricity planning; (iii) it shifted
the emphasis from building the generating, transmission and distribution facilities of each utility to a
more comprehensive sectoral analysis.
184.         In general terms, the principal actions to which the Government of Colombia
committed itself were largely complied with, although with delays and imbalances compared with the
agreed timetables: (i) the pricing policy stipulated in JNT Resolution 086 of 1986 was applied; (ii)
the National Energy Commission was created and went into effect, and the program follow-up
mechanisms were developed; (iii) the investments were within predefined goals; (iv) the government
provided the loans and contributions to capitalize the utilities; (v) the minimum cost expansion plan
was approved; (vi) the utilities as a group, and several as individuals, complied with the loss
reduction goals; (vii) the principal targets agreed with respect to reducing the portfolio in arrears were
achieved; (viii) the rehabilitation plans for the ICEL and CORELCA groups were prepared; (ix) the
action plan developed for Guavio was advanced; (x) the action measures for the environment and
socioeconomic plans were developed.
185.          Contrary to the plans laid out in the PSAL, the preceding impressive record did not
have positive implications on boosting the efficiency or improving the sector's finances. On the
contrary, these actions moved in tandem with a considerable additional deterioration in internal cash
generation, rising deficit and maintenance of high debt levels, all of which are indicators of poor
sector performance during the period.
186.          The foregoing statements lead to the conclusion that the objectives set were not fully
in line with and expressive of the wide and varied array of policies and actions agreed by the
Government of Colombia and the Bank to be carried out in very short times. Under these
circumstances, as a result, the assumptions of substantial improvement of the indicators and the
financial projections made for the period proved entirely too optimistic, especially in view of the
considerable cumulative deterioration of the sector.
187.         In particular, the final figures show that, despite the new pricing policy that was
applied, earnings from energy sales were much lower than the projections. This, coupled with
operating expenses that were going beyond the projected amounts, was reflected in generation of
equity resources that was much lower than the projected amount and, as a consequence, in the greater
need of external funds.



29                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
188.          The development of the financing plan was likewise affected by the substantial delays
in the loan disbursements programmed for the sector. The World Bank operation itself was conceived
and agreed as a fast disbursement loan that would not take more than 15 months. Nevertheless, as
described throughout this report, the prior conditions for the disbursements covered such a long list of
issues, actions and goals that in practice, it was foreseeable that the funds would be very slow in
execution.
189.          To a large extent, the financial strategy to meet the massive commitments of external
debt proved inadequate; this was clear virtually at the very moment the loan received the approval of
the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors. However, none of the parties attached sufficient
importance to the empirical evidence that came from the new financial projections and which
suggested that the PSAL, as formulated, had little financial viability. In the follow-up of the loan, the
Bank missions did not conduct a systematic evaluation of these problems and were even less
concerned with developing alternatives that would have implied a redesign of critical areas in the
PSAL.
190.          The government did not draw either from its own warnings all the required
implications: if the new projections were showing an intense and growing financial deterioration
within the power sector, it was obviously important and urgent to amend the PSAL and to proceed to
renegotiate the entire financial support package. This course of action, however, was never explicitly
raised.
191.          In practice, the remedy turned to was applying a new and costly short term financing
plan. In effect, to cover the new financing gaps, the government was forced to allocate the equivalent
of more than 2.5 points of GDP of 1990, using resources drawn from domestic savings (through
FODEX) and new external loans. This significantly limited the financing of priority programs set out
for the plan to combat poverty and the national rehabilitation plan. It also generated an extremely
high opportunity cost for long term development programs in exchange for maintaining-by ways
other than those defined in the PSAL-relative stability on the exchange and fiscal fronts.
192.          The governrment did not give careful consideration to a variety of factors that in the
long run would affect the viability of executing the plan:
-      First, several of the agreed goals outstripped any realistic possibility of being
achieved within such short times. This was particularly true of goals relating to
reducing electricity losses and adjusting the pricing structure of EEEB, a job in which
the Bank had failed in its own direct action.
Second, appropriate value was not given to the fact that the Ministry of Mines and
Energy did not have effective instruments to ensure that the utilities *met their
commitments, or the technical capacity to conduct supervision and coordination.
Third, the new focus on the sector's problems was not grounded on a careful analysis
of the government's ability to control all the utilities or on a less optimistic evaluation
of the risks in both the international and the national environments, in terms of any
additional deterioration of the financial situation.
Fourth, the emphasis on the sectoral nature of the loan operation lost sight of the
individual peculiarities of each of the utilities that had to be involved in achieving the
goals.



30                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
193.         The PSAL stirred too many expectations which proved totally unfounded regarding
the financing of the Electricity Generation Expansion Plan. This amounted to a waste of the utilities'
technical and human resources to deal with the ongoing demands for information and simulations of
expansion sequences.
194.         The requirement to give ISA exclusive responsibility for building all generating plants
larger than 100 MW and the acceptance of this condition by the Government of Colombia contributed
even more to the worsening relations between ISA and its members. This took the form of
uncontrolled growth of accounts receivable for energy and a campaign within the region to undermine
ISA's monopolistic control over all the generating works. Both parties were incapable of evaluating
fully the consequences that this condition had on the sector's ability to adjust.
195.         The dialogue between the Government of Colombia and the World Bank was
distressed by the differences in the policy priorities and the priorities among the commitments. For
the former, it was essential to control the impact that the sector was having on the aggregated
indicators of external debt, investment and fiscal deficit. The latter, which shared those priorities in
the design of the PSAL, turned its attention during the process of execution to each one of the actions
and the commitments and did not attach major importance to developments in the macroeconomic
situation.
VIII. LESSONS
196.         A loan operation such as the one reviewed in this report leaves a body of useful
teachings for the process of relations between the Government of Colombia and the World Bank. The
principal components of these lessons have been pointed out over the length of this report and refer
essentially to the inadequate consideration of the critical situation the sector was experiencing, the
lack of a close coherence between the structural reform objectives and the numerous and scattered
action measures to be carried out in a very short time and the optimistic appraisal of the financial
scenario projected for the period.
197.         Concept of the Adiustment Program and the Sector Loan: The adjustment program
designed in 1987 for the Colombian power sector suffered from three basic flaws: (i) its scope did
not square with the magnitude of a massive financial crisis such as that which occurred between 1987
and 1990; (ii) the program was unrealistic in terms of goals and times, bearing in mind the
deteriorated state of the indicators taken as references and the low level of government regulation
over the electricity utilities; (iii) a lack of priorities among the conditions, leading to an undesirable
confusion between strategic actions and short term actions of little impact.
198.         The conditions agreed within the framework of the PSAL proved virtually
unattainable in the context of a fast disbursement loan. Since no plans had been made for any type of
control over attainment of the goals that went beyond the original horizon of the loan, the almost
inevitable result was extending the disbursement periods in order to watch over the compliance with
the conditions.
199.         The loan should have been conceived as support for the phases of a broader sector
reform program, using follow-up loan operations that would guarantee the continuity of actions that
constituted only the first phase of development in this period. In this way, the existing barriers could
have gradually been brought down, the institutional and regulatory changes could have been made on



31                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
a graduated basis and both government agencies and the utilities could have been strengthened
technically.
200.          The concept of the PSAL almost as a 'terminal operation' barred a fruitful dialogue
with the government and made more remote the possibility of reaching new agreements on a common
way of dealing with the sector's problems.
201.          Executive Capacity of Colombian Government Agencies: The leadership assigned
legally to the Ministry of Mines and Energy was not in line with the dimensions of the program
adopted or the technical capacity that prevailed at that time among the different internal offices of the
ministry. This aspect was not dealt with adequately in the risk analysis that the Colombian
government had to make.
202.          The rest of the government agencies had very low technical ability to control the
electric utilities and supervise their performance. In the end, these agencies did not exercise major
control but designed other mechanisms for offsetting the effects of the deterioration. The PSAL did
not provide any modification of central Colombian government agencies and for this reason
enhancement of their technical skills did not appear among the basic conditions for the development
itself of the program.
203.          The government lacked a management strategy for in-house conflicts which would
have put to positive use the technical and administrative potential that was available, both at the
central government level and within the utilities. The conflicts grew out of what could be called a
"zero-base game," which viewed that whoever yielded space did so to the benefit of another player
within the government and therefore 'lost" some part of his prerogatives. The need for a purposeful
strategy in this area became evident in the fact that no agency could impose any specific policy on
others but was, at the same time, unwilling to have any imposed upon itself.
204.          The design of the program control process was not very effective since it depended
on data produced very slowly within the utilities. In addition, effective control capacity over the
departmental utilities was not developed. These utilities remained discreetly on the sidelines of the
efforts to make sector adjustments since they did not have many external debt commitments that
would force them to tap resources allocated by the Ministry of Treasury or to FODEX.
205.          Priority Items on the Agenda of Bank Missions: Those who participated in the
Sector Adjustment Plan share a widespread opinion that the predominating factor in this aspect was
the continuing shift of emphasis on what items should be controlled. The emphasis varied from
pricing, to the accounts receivable portfolio, to the environment, to the CNE, to losses and so forth.
Also perceived was an emphasis on matters that proved irrelevant over the short run, especially the
discussions on the expansion plan.
206.          As a result, it was not possible to start a dialogue on new issues or advance toward
new proposals. Most of the discussions dealt with the discrepancies regarding progress made on the
actions and their completion timetables, as well as the preparation of varying financial projection
scenarios. These action, however, did not constitute a good basis for the evaluation of the
prolongation of the crisis or a better understanding of the situation of FODEX and its high cost for
the economy.
207.         Institutional and Regulatory Changes Announced: The most positive institutional
change during this period was the creation of the National Energy Commission. This new



32                Part II - Borrower's Perspective
commission gave the government a legal instrument to coordinate and study all aspects of integrated
energy planning involving all resources. The newly created CNE went beyond the traditional
impotence of government agencies, at different levels, to manage a long term concept in the energy
area.
208.          This transformation, however, was isolated from the complex and vast network of
national and regional agencies engaged in the electricity sector. For these no new regulatory
framework was designed nor their institutional interrelationships redefined. The new level of
coordination, the Consejo Superior del Sector Electrico [Higher Electricity Sector Council], while
useful in the dialogue between the sector and the economic authorities, lacked the legal and
enforcement powers to carry out its responsibilities.
209.          Establishment of Goals and Understanding of the Utilities: The most critical goal of
the adjustment program were reducing electricity losses which had been established on the basis of
several existing studies. The benchmark level selected for several utilities were quite optimistic.
These goals were set without a thorough understanding of the true state of the technical and
commercial structure of the utilities. In this area, the operating capacity of the distribution area,
which must have been very weakened by the pronounced worsening of the loss rates, was
overestimated as was the ability of the Ministry of Mines and Energy to orient and control the
process.
210.          In particular, the goals for EEEB (energy losses) and EPMB (portfolio recovery)
were accepted without major evaluation by the Government of Colombia since they came from two
World Bank loan operations engaged shortly before and were being disbursed in 1987. The
impossibility of controlling these two utilities became an obstacle that surfaced during development of
the adjustment loan.
211.          Evaluation of Benefits and Risks: Based on the president's report to the Bank Board
of Executive Directors, the principal benefit of the loan was to come from its positive effect on the
economy by reducing public spending through enhanced efficiency, planning, price setting and the
decision-making process. While a considerable drop was recorded in annual levels of investment
during the period, the attainment of this benefit does not appear to have been correlated very closely
to the attainment of those parameters.
212.          Among the central risks, the report of the president to the Bank Board of Executive
Directors had emphasized the uncertainties regarding the procurement of additional resources, both in
terms of amounts planned and their timely disbursement. This risk occurred fully with the
disbursements themselves of the World Bank loan, as well as with those from the IDB and
EXIMBANK. For that reason, the government was forced to raise additional funds from commercial
bank loans and domestic public savings, with the attendant disruptive effects on other public
investment programs.



PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAU
(LOAN 2889-CO)
PART 111. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Amount      Year                       Dis-
(in USS      of                      bursement
mill-       Apro-                      as of
Number and Title              ion)          val       Borrower      12/31/93                        Purpose
1. 38-CO: Achicaya Hydro-electric        3.53        1950      CVC/CHIDRAL      100X      Anchicaya units 1 and 2 (2 x 12 MU hydro)
2. 39-CO: La Insula Hydro-electric         2.6       1950          CHEC         100X       The Insula units 1 and 2 (2 x 10 MU hydro)
3. 54-CO: Labrija Hydro-electric           2.4       1951         LABRIJA       1001       Palmas units 1 and 2 (2 x 4.4 MU hydro)
4. 113-CW: Anchicays Yumbo Power           4.5       1955         CHIDRAL       100X       Anchicaya unit 3 (20 MU hydro) and Yumbo unit
1 (10 NU thermal)
5. 215-CW: Yumbo Extension                 2.8       1958         CHIDRAL       100X       Yumbo unit 2 (10 NW thermal)
6. 217-CD: La Esmelalda                    4.6       1959          CHEC         1002       La Esmeralda units 1 and 2 (2 x 13.3 MU hydro
7. 225-CD: Guadalupe                       12        1959           EPH         1001       Guadalupe units 1 and 2 (2 x 45 NW hydra) and
Troneras unit 1 (18 MU hydro)
8. 246-CD: Bogota Power                   17.6       1960          EEEB         1001       Laguneta unit 4 (18 MW hydra) and Zipaquira
unit 1 (33 MU thermal)
9. 255-CD: Yumbo III Calim  I Poaer        25        1960      CVC/CHIDRAL      1001       Yumbo unit 3 (33 MW thermul) and Calti  units
I and 2 (2 x 30 NW hydro)
10. 282-CD: Second Guadalupe              22         1961           EPH         1001      Troneras unit 2 (18 MU hydro) and GuadaLupe
wnits 3, 4 and 5 (3 x 45 MU hydro)
11. 313-CD: Second Expansion               50        1962          EEEB         1001       Zipaquira unit 2  (37.5 MU hydro) and Colegio
units 1, 2 and 3 (3 x 50 MW hydro)
12. 339-CO: Power ExpansIon               8.8        1963      CVC/CHIDRAL      100X      CalIm  units 3 and 4 (2 x 30 Mu hydro)
13. 347-CD: Cospique Power                  5        1963      ELECTRIBOL       1001      Cosplque units 2 and 3 (2 x 12.5 MU thermaL)
14. 369-CD: Nare                          45         1964           EPH         1001      Guatape units 1, 2, 3  nd 4 (4 x 70 MU hydro)
15. 537-CD: Third Expansion                18        1968          EEEB         1001      El Colegio units 4, 5 and 6 (3 x 5) MU hydro
and Canoes (1 x 50 Mu hydro)                                                 ^
00
Ii =



TABLE 1: Related Bank Loans (Continuation)
Amount       Year                        Dis-
(in USS       of                      bursement
mill-        Apro-                       as of
Number and Title               ion)          val        Borrower      12/31/93                         Purpose
16. 575-CO: Power Interconnection           18         1968           ISA          100%       Central System Interconnection (230 kV trans-
mission line and Substation)
17. 681-CO: Chivor Hydroelectric           52.3        1970           ISA          100%       Chivor 1 (4 x 125 hydro)
18. 874-CO: Guatape 11 Hydroelectric        56         1973           EPH          100%       Guatape 11 units 1, 2, 3 and 4
(4 x 70 MW hydro)
19. 1582-CO: San Carlos I Hydro Power    126           1978           ISA          100%       San Carlos I (4 x 155 MU hydro)
20. 1583-CO: 500kV Interconnection          50         1978       GOVERNMENT       100%       500 kV Interconnection Central System/
Atlantic System
21. 1628-co: Mesitas Hydroelectric Powe  84            1978          EEEB          100%       El Paraiso 3 x 90 MW; La Guaca 3 x 100 NW
pumping 3 x 10 MHP; Sesquile dam strengthenin
22. 1725-CO: San Cartos 1I Hydro Power   72            1979           ISA          100%       San Carlos If (4 x 155 MW hydro)
23. 1807-CO: Bogota Power Distribution   87            1980          EEEB          100%       Bogota distribution
24. 1868-CO: Guadalupe IV Hydro Power    125           1980           EPM          100%       Guadatupe IV (3 x 71 MW hydro)
25. 1953-CO: Playas Hydro Power             85         1981           EPH          100%       Playas (3 x 67 MW hydro)
26. 1999-CO: Village Etectrification        36         1982         CORELCA        100%       Attantic coast village electrification
27. 2008-CO: Guavio Hydro Power             359        1982          EEEB          100%       Guavio (5 x 200 MW hydro)
28. 2401-CO: Power Development Finance   170           1984           FEN          100%       Power development finance
28.2        1984           FEN          100%      Power development finance (Cofinancing)
29. 2449-CO: Rio Grande Multipurpose    164.5          1984           EPH           70%       Rio Grande Hydro (3 x 100 MW hydro)
30. 2634-CO: Bogota Distribution II          171       1986          EEEB           70%       Bogota Distribution II
31. 2889-CO: Power Sector                   300        1988       GOVERNMENT        75%       Power Sector Adjustment
File: 2889\report\P3-TBI.WKI
0 
o J



35                                           PART III
Page 3 of 12
TABLE 2: LOAN DATA (US$ millions)
A. TOTAL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS               Original      Disbursed     Cancelled     Outstanding
(as of closing date: September 30, 1990)l
Loan 2889-CO                                300            225           75            225
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE a/                              Original              Actual (12/30/85)
Initial Project Brief                                                          12/30/85
Final Project Brief                                                            10/24/86
Pre-Appraisal                                                                   11/86
Appraisal                                                                       02/87
Negotiations                                                                    11/87
Board Approval                                                .                12/08/87
Loan/Credit Agreement                                                         03/16/88
Effectiveness (1st tranche)                          06/16/88                 06/06/88
Effectiveness (2nd tranche)                          03/30/89                 08/31/89
Effectiveness (3rd tranche)                          06/30/89            09/30/89 (cancelled)
Loan/Credit Closing                                  06/30/89                 09/30/90
C. CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT                     FY88              FY89             FY90
(i) Planned                                          150               150
(ii) Actual                                          150               75
(iii)(ii) as % of (i)                                l00               50
_/    This operation was transformed from an investment loan to a sector adjustment in May 1987 when it was
agreed that it would be a key element in the overall 1987-90 financing plan for the public sector.
File: P3-TB2



36
PART III
TABLE 3: USE OF BANK RESOURCE5                                           Page 4 of 12
A. STAFF INP
Bank
FY             1985       1996         1987        1988        1989        1990       1991      1992             TOal
Preparation                         3.1        57.4         74.0                                                                     134.5
Apprais                                                     29.4                                                                      29 4
Negotiations                                                 4.7       37.7                                                          42.4
Supervision                                                            39.2        72.1        20.9        16.7       0.2            149.1
T otal                             3.1       57.4         108.1       76.9        72.1        20.9    0   16.7      0.2            355.4
8. MISSION DAT
Type of Mission                      Montb I           No. of            Staff             No. of         Performance         Typ. of
Year            Weeks            Weeks            Persons /         Rilng c/         Poblems l
in Field
Preparation I                         Oct/85         1.5              4.5              2 PE, PA
Preparation 2                         Jun/86         3.0              14.0             2 PE, 2FA,
LO, CO
Preparation 3                        Sep/86           2.0             2.0              ES               (Environment)
Preappraisal                         Nov/86           2.0             11.0             3 FA, PE, LO,
Co
Appraisal                             Feb/87          2.0             8.0              3 FA, PE
Prepamion Post Ap.                    Ian/Bs          1.0              1.0             ES               (Environment)
Preparation Post Ap.                  Feb/SS          1.0              2.0             2FA              (Cofinncing)      (Jeximbank)
Supevision I                        March/88          1.0              1.0             PE                2                 F.T.M.
Supervision It                       May/8s           0.5              1.5             PE, FA, LA       N.A.
Supervision m                        July/83          2.0              9.0             3PE, IE, IES      2                F.T.
Superviion IV                        Sp/S8            1.0              1.0             IPB              N.A.              Pros. Repot
Supervision V                         Oct/S           2.5              9.5             3PE, 3FA, I       2                F.T.
Supervision VI                        Janl/9          2.0              4.0             IES, IS          N.A.             ENV
Supervision VU                       April/89         1.5              3.0             IES, ISE         N.A.              ENV
Supervision Vm                        Jun1/89         1.5              1.5             IPE              _
Supervision IX                        Oct/89          1.0              3.0            2PE, I (PA,E)      2                F, T
Supervision X                       MArchJ90          1.5              4.5            PE, FA, ES         2                F. T
Supervision XI                       lunc/90          1.0              2.0             PE, PA           N.A.              F, T
Supervision XU                       Sept/90          1.5              3.0             2FA              Lam mission       F, T
|TOTAL                                               29.5              S5.5
A/      I -Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problenu; and 3 - Major problems.
b/      F F   Fnancial; T - Technical; M - Managemaen.
c/      PE - Power Engineer, FA - Financial Analyst; E - Economist; LO    Loan Officer, CO - Consultant; LA    lAwyer,
ES - Environmental Specialist; SE - Social Specialist.
File: P3-TB3



3 7                                            PART III
Page5 of 12
TABLE 4: MAIN CONDITIONALUES OF LOAN AGREEMENT (LA)
Source                            Condition                      Compliance              Comment
L PARTICULAR COVENANTS
LA 3.01a      Both parties should exchange views in progress     Yes
achieved
LA 3.01b      Report on progress required before exchange of views   Yes
LA 3.02       Procurement to be carried-out according to Bank    Yes
guidelines
LA 3.03a      Update Sector Investment Program and financing plan    Partial   By the time of the cancellation of
(SIP) 1987-1990 by 12-31-88 & 12-31-89 satisfactory            the loan the SIP had still a sub-
to the Bank                                                     stantial financing gap (text
para. 4.5)
LA 3.03b      Exchange of views by 10-31-88 & 10-31-89           Yes
LA 3.04a      ISA's action plan by 03-31-88 on solutions for social    Yes     Amendment of 6/6/88. Date
& ecological problems to be carried out satisfactory to         changed to 7/31/88
Bank
LA 3.04b      Satisfactory implementation of ICEL & CORELCA's    Partial       Management studies and timeta-
Financial Rehabilitation & Management Improvement               bles were prepared. Actual
Plans                                                           improvements in the management
and finances of the utilities were
below program expectations
3.04c         By July 31, 1988 furnish full progress report on exe-    Yes     Amendment 6/6/88. This new
cution of financial rehabilitation plans of ICEL and            condition was added as a result of
CORELCA utilities                                              the amendment
LA 3.04d      EEEB's Management Improvement Plan to be provid-   Partial       Amendment of 6/6/88. Originally
ed by June-30-89 (date was PostDoned to Dec. 31/89              3.04c, this article became 3.04d.
on July 14/89) & carry it out according to a satisfacto-        The study was done but the actual
ry timetable                                                    management improvement could
not be carried out satisfactorily
(Annex 5 paras. 23-27)
LA 3.05       Oril: System to monitor performance of Power       Replaced
Co. & compliance with targets should be put into
effect by March-31-88
The Amendment of June 6/88 replaced original cove-
nant as follows:
LA 3.05a      by July 31/88, furnish full progress report on compli-   Yes
ance with PSAL objectives and covenants based on
satisfactory monitoring indicators.
LA 3.05b      by Sept. 30/88, put in effect system to monitor perfor-   Yes
mance under the PSAL
LA 3.06a      Carry out the loss Reduction Program, satisfactory to    Partial  By amendment of 8/14/89 the
the Bank.                                                       Bank accepted program dated
4/89 and related program report
of 6/89.



38                                             PART III
Pagc 6 of 12
TABLE 4: MAIN CONDMONALITlES OF LOAN AGREEMENT (LA)
Source                             Condition                      Compliance              Comment
LA 3.06b      The amendment of June 6/88 added the following      Yea           see text para. 4.1
covenant: by July 31/88 furnish a full progress report
and satisfactory timetable on execution of loss reduc-
tion program by each utility
LA 3.07a      Ogiinal:                                            Partial       Complied with for 2nd tranche.
Arrears Reduction Plan satisfactory to Bank                      Partially complied with for 3rd
tranche
LA 3.07b      The amendment of June 6/88 added the following      (i) Yes       See text para. 4.1
covenants: (i) by July 31/88 the Borrower will com-
pensate adequately Electrificadora del Caribe; and (ii)
ensure timely payment of current billings by EPMB  (ii) No
LA 3.07c      Date for payment of departmental arrears stated in
Govt. policy letter of March 30/88 was extended to  Yes
Sept. 30/88
LA 3.08a      Separate records of expenses financed by Loan to be  Yes
maintained
LA 3.08b      Records to be audited each fiscal year & submitted to    Yes
the Bank along with relevant data
LA 3.08c      Records and accounts of expenses out of Loan to be  Yes
maintained & retained for at least one year; Bank
delegates to be enable to examine them & ensure their
inclusion in annual audits
LA 3.09       Taking account of Bank comments, carry out recom-    Yes          Through Miniterial Decree No.
mendations of study on legal mechanisms for the                  1303 from MME. Government
treatment of ilegal uses of electricity                         instructed utilities to carry out
recommendations.
IL EVENTS OF SUSPENSION                                          X_______
LA 4.01a      Occurrence of events or situations obstructing Program   n.a.
LA 4.Olb      Significant am-dment to Programs obstructing achiev-  n.a.
ement of goals
LA 4.01c      Repeal of Resolution 86 or failure to implement its  n.a.
provisions
LA 4.02       Notice to be given by Bank if events defined in Section   n.a.
4.01 shall occur & continue for a period of 60 days
m. EFFECTIVENESS                                                 _       _     _____________________
LA 5.01       Secure from external lenders additional $200,000,000    Yes
financing
File: P3-TB4



TABLE 5: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT ACTONS
REPORTED                                REPORTED
FOR RELEASE OP   COMPUANCE  FOR RELEASE OP  COMPLtANCE
POLICY AREA                   OBJECTlVES                    ACTlON               SECOND TRANCHE              YES/NO         THIRD TRANCHE            YES/NO
A. INVESTMENT POLICIES                                     (Nok: After tde
AND DECISIONS                                            Amendment of June 6/tS,
conditions of effectiveneus
I. lnvehmeni Policies          To samme dia mapr           werc ret and tde Is        Completion, in a manner        Yes          Leag-cost program           Yes
irvemt deciions ae         Tranche was disbured on    uttisfactory to the Bank,                   fibn  version,
sconomnicaUy sound ud      tune - text par. 4.1)      of a draft least cost                       approved by Energy
finncially viable                                     program for gcneration                      Board (or MME)
and associated &                           Sched. 4B No Ia)
transmission through
year 2000, apprtoed by
ISA (Sched. 4A. No. 2)
2. Level of Invedsmen          To keep level of power      Level aNd cosyoents of    Compliance with                  Yes         Submission of               No
invegmeo5s cmartibk        1987-90 sector iavetmei    Pgram execution                             updated 19S8-90
with mcerccoaomc           progam Nd financing        (ached. 4A. No.3)                          rmvemnm  program
expectatiom                pan 1987-1990                                                           ad reled funcing
pan satisfactor to
Yeady updatin ofdie                                       yes         the Bink
inveeunet3 program and
reective fi ing pbla
an joint reviews of dies
Joit revie  in Oct. 19U                                   Yes
and Oct. 1939 (Soct.
3.03e) Updating in Dec.
1938 and Dec. 1989)
(Set. 3.03b)
3. Project Specific (Guavio)   To  addres the oeial        InVleamem proge on         Compliance with the             Yes         Coapiance with the          Yes
disruption caused by        ocial imes in Guavio      Guavio Progrmm (Sched.                      Guavio Pfogrm
Guwvio                                                4A. No. 4)                                  (Sched. 48 No.4)
To enure satisfactory      Fiunacing pln nd new        Satisfactory progres in        Yea         Satisfactory progreu        Ye
compktioa of the project    mgement stutr,            the implerentaio                            in their
including schedule for     (Sched. 4A. No 4)                           implerastio.
their implementation                                                  (Sched. 48 No.4)
(Annex 3. action program)



REPORTED                                REPORTED
FOR RELEASE OF         COMPLIANCE   'FOR RELEASE OF    COMPLUANCE
POLICY AREA                    OBJECTIVES                    ACTION               SECOND ThANCHE              YESfNO        THIRD TRANCHE             YES/NO
B. INSTrTUTIONAL ISSUES
I. Power Sector Policy          To impnowe coordintion                                 Govenunent bha            Converted ito     Governtent to give          Yes
of the pow'er subector                                 esablished intuiutional   condition for     ISA authority to
wiLh other energy                                      arrangenents to improve    3rd. tranche     own, conamuct and
subecton and instil a                                   ector coordination      release            operate all future
national focua to                                      (Energy Board BiU                          mnjor generation
investment decision                                    approved by Congrea                         and tranamiaeion
or Satisfactory                            prxjects (Sched. 4B.
alternative adopted).                      No.2)
(Scbed. 4A. No.1)
2. Reguistion                   (a) to naws *tiag of        Goavernment to establish   Compliance                                  Compli ace
performance indi      and    aitoring conmittee to:
nonitor compliance         (I) establish and monitor                             (I) Yes                                     (I) Yes
performance indicators for
(b) to easure proper linkc  all sector utilities
between tariff seuing and  (2) etblish proper                                    (2) Partial                                (2) Partial
operating efficiency       linkage between tariffs
setting and compliance
with performnance
indicaton
Monitoring system to be                              Yes in Sept/lS
effective March 31, 19S7
(Sect. 3.05)                                    _
3. Management and Efficiency    (a) to emmre conpliance     Management improvement                               No; postponed     Submisaion of EEBs          Yea
with agreed performnnce    action plan for EEB will                             till Junc 1990      managemnent
indicators                  be subntitted for Bank                               and delivered in   improvement plan
apprival, by December                                OctJ1990          (Sched. 4B No.3)
31, 198S
Managemnt imnproveent   Subninuion of daft          Yes               Submiiaion of final         Yes
action plans for ICEL and    management                                management
CORELCA will be            improvement plana for                       improvement plans
submitted on: Oct. 31,     ICEL and CORELCAs                           for ICEL,
19SS all eletrificdonas    electrificadoras                            CORELCA and
Feb. 25, 1959 ICEL and     (Schedule 4A No.5)                          EEEB (Schedule 4B
CORELCA parent                                                         No. 3)
conpanies
(b) to enure eontinuation  By December 31, 1987        Satisfactory progress in  No (see text      Satisfactory progres   Partil (see text
of los reduction program   submission of mdy on        schieving lo  reduction    par. 4.2)       in achieving loss         pars. 4.3)
kgal fmervork ad           targets (Sched. 4A                          reduction targets
00
policies against electricity  No.4)                                    (Sched. 4B No.4)co;
theft (Sect. 3.09)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .                                                  iQ



REPORTED                              REPORTED
FOR RELEASE OF    COMPUANCE  FOR RELEASE OF  COMPUANCE
POLICY AREA                   OBJECTIVES                     ACTION              SECOND TRANCHE                  YES/NO    THIRD TRANCHE              YES/NO
4. Environmental and Social    To ensure application of    Reforetation in the         Compliance (Sched. 4A           Yc         Compliance (Sched.          Yes
Issues                          sound environrnental and   Chivor reservoir            No.4)                                       4B No. 4)
social sandards, before
projects re siected and    Action plan to reinfomte                                   Yes
during project             ISA's envinmuenutal unit
implemncltstion
By March 31, 193f,
submision of action        Compliance (Sched. 4A           Yes         Compliane (Sched.           Ye
progam, including          No 4)                                       4B No. 4)
staffing plan, budgt and
training progrm
stisfactory to the Bank
C. FINANCING
1. Sector Finaers              To *nr viability of         Fnancing plan for 1917-     Compliance                     Yes          Addioal S250                Yea
financing plan              1990 and resourc,e                                                      million of
($200 million of           mobilization targeCI (see                                               cofinancing funds
cofinanciang funds whould  A.2 above)                                                              committed or
have been cominined, or                                                                            equivwlent
equivIlent contingency                                                                             contingency plans
plan impiemented (Sect,                                                                            implemenated.
5.01 a). Tbis condition of                                                                         (Sched. 4B No.5)
Effetivenes was
comnplied with)            Detailed contingency        Compliance                     Yes          Updated financial       No (see teal
finaneial plan in case                                                 plan satisfactory to    paras 4.3-4.5)
cofinancing does not                                                   the Bank (See A.2
develop as expected                                                    above)
2. Utility Finances             (a) To ensure adequate      Commitment from the        Compliance (Sched. 4A          Yes          CompliAnce (Sched.          Yes
flow of funds for power    Governmcat regarding its    No.4)                                       4B No.4)
subsector                  equity contributions to
ICEL AND CORELCA.
(USS240MILL+ 150
MILL) (Action Progrm,
Annex 3)
(b) to ensure the financial    Implemeat the fin ncial  Satisfactory progress in       Yes         Satisfactory progres        Yes
viability of ICEL &        rehabilitation plans for    the implementation of      (see Annex 5     in the                  (see Annex S
CORELCA utilities and      ICEL and CORELCA            the rehabilitation plans   paras. 21-22)    implementationof        pams. 21-22)
help them improWe their    (Sect. 3.07 and Action      for ICEL and                                the rehabilitation
efficiency                 Pogrm)                      CORELCA (Sched. 4A                          plans for ICEL and
No.4)                                      CORELCA (Sched.
4B No.4)
a g



TABLE 5: SCHEDULE OF DISBUIRSEMENT ACTIONS
REPORTED                                REPORTED
FOR RELEASE OF         COMPLIANCE    FOR RELEASE OF    COMPUANCE
POLICY AREA                   OBUECTIVES                    AClION               SECOND TRANCHE              YESINO         THIRD TRANCHE             YES/NO
3. Public Sector Anrars         To achieve financial       Govemmneat plan to          Satisfactotr progress in        Yes         Satisfactory progrec       Panial
discipline and eonsur that  eliminate public weto"     eliminating the public                     in eliminating the
the required fDw of        armrea  within 24 months    sector arrea (Sched.                        public ector arrears   (Text pars. 5.6)
resources to the ector is  (Sect. 3.07 and Action      4A No. 4)                                   (Sched. 4B No. 4)
provided                   Program)
D. Pricing                     To enaute chievement of    Adverse changes to           Compliance with Action         Yes          Compliance with            Panial
financial urgets nd to     legisation setting LJMC     Program                                     Action Program
improwe tariff  tucte by    framewor or failure to
aligning it with LRMC       uinpkment i to be
condition of defaul (Sect.
4.01c)
Consution block for
basic needs to be reduced
fion 0-200 to 0-100
kwh/month: before June
30, 198S Government
defines timing and criteria 
for block reduction
Household rates to
conaunmpion up to 400
kwhimonth to reach target
levels by 1993 in Bogoti
Fil: P3-TB5
ao
o 



43                                         PART 111
Page II of 12
Table 6: PSAL's SUCCESS EXPECTATION AS OF 8/31/88 (in %) a/
Agency Responsible                         IWeight Factor b/] Probability Expectation
Actions/Programs                           _    _    _
National Government and Congress                           l
National Energy Commission                          12         75          9
National Government
Investment Policy & Program                         12         67          8
Cofinancing                                         I I       100         11
Monitoring Committee                                 5        100          5
National and Local Governments
Tariff Adjustments Program                          13         67          9
Arrears Reduction Program                           10         67          7
ICEL and CORELCA Manag Improv                        6         67          4
Electric Companies
Loss Reduction Program                              11         50          6
Guavio Program                                       7         75          5
Environmental and Resettlement                       6        100          6
ICEL and CORELCA Financ Rehab                        7         75          5
Total           100                    74
a/ Back-to-Office Report, October 6, 1988.                     __
b/ Relative importance determined on the basis of average opinion of staff involved in the
appraisal and supervision of the program.                        _
File: P3-TB6.exl



4
PART IlI
Page 12 of 12
TABLE 7: PSAL's ESTIMATED WEIGHTED SUCCESS AS OF 9/30/90 (in %)
Estimated  Com pliance/Success  Levels
Agency Responsible           OverAll  CornpiUne with scilon Plahr  Success of reform Coals    Overall  Relativ
Actios/Prognums            Weight            Wieighte WWeight weih   Weitdgh                      IRem
Factor    Actions  Factor Complianc   Succes  Factor  Success  Success Conpliance NOTES
,fastonsl Government and Congres
National Energy Commrtission              12        20    50        1.20      90    50        5 40    6.60        55   rI 
Nadtonal Governmeast 
Investment Policy & Program               12        70    50        4.20      50    50        3.00    7.20        60   (2
CofinaneinrrT'                                      75  40          41        6      50       3 0   7 4           68   (JI
Monitoring Comrninee     5       ~       *!      6 0   1    ~F51              75    50      1         88 *       T1 68
Notlonsl and Lcaf 6overnrienti
TariffAdjustentm Progam                   13        80    50        5.20      S0    50        5.20    10.40       S0   (5I
Arears Reducion Progrm                    10        60    50       T          60 6    0  3    00 60   ,
ICEL and COR LCAMiggmanFncial Rehabltn     6        7T                            -; T7 22  Z  !       .             _
'Jectic Compan_s
Lo" Reduction Progrm                      11        60    50        3.30      81    50        4.46    7.76        71    Ai
Guavio Investmenm Program                  7        703 2.   470 50 2   44                                 70 ;
Environmenual *nd Re3etniement                 6      2 6   8   5      0    -2e
ICEL and CORELCA Financ ial R=ehsblt       7        75 2  6                20 50    0 70 3-3                      48
Total JI 100                                                    32 4                     3  62    65
a/ Relative inportance determined on the basis of average opinion of stff involved in the appmisal and supervision of the program.
Note: The basis for this estimate explained in the notes below is not the only one possible. While many different criteria could be
used to produce better or lesser results, not one could have a claim on perfection. The above flgures are only Intended to present a
fair representation of the success of the Reform Program based on expected and reported results
(1) Had it been timely created, the CNE would have been effectively active for 18 months (March 89 through SepL 90). Slnce it
became fully staffed and operational only in June 90 (4 months) timely compliance was only 22%. However, its effectiveness for the
long term Improvement of the sector is assessed at 90% (Annex 5, pars. 6).
(2) Even though the overall investment target was met, the physical targets of individual utilities were noL The financing plan,
particularly of 1990, was only 70% funded. Also no effective institutional improvement was achieved to ensure the timely execution of
financin  plans and physical implementation of sector projects  However, because of the Impnroved planning poUcies developed
during the PSAI. reform goals are deemed to have been 50% achieved. (Annex 5, parlL 5-12).
(3) Of S1,330 milUlon to be mobilized under the PSAL (contracted and disbursed) about 75% were contracted on tdme and only 60%
(USS796 million) were dlsbursed from the original intended sources (Annex 2 parL 6-7).
(4) In terms of timeliness the Monitoring Committee operated effectively 60% of the time from Apr11 89 Instead of March 88 (18
months out of 30). Its impact is assessed at 75% on account that it had diMculty in coordinating the development of a system to
timely monitor the consolidated finances of the sector (Annex 5, paris. 17-20).
(5) The mechanics of Tariff Adjustment Program (TAP) according to Resolution 86 was largely complied with although with
apglicatlon flaws In the smaller cities responsible for about 30% of demand. Also, actual revenues expressed in U.S. doUar terms were
17/. under the forecast. Hence in terms of actions and impact TAP compliance is considered to have been 80% in both cua
(Annex 2, paas. 11-12 and 17-21).
(6) Arrears Reduction Program (ARP). Sector receivables were to be reduced to 66 days equivalent of sales. OveraU compliance is
considered to be 60% because of the way the program was implemented (Annex 2, paras 14-16) and the fact that at the end of 1990
sector receivables were equivalent to 100 days of sales.
It is diMcult to assess the amount of success of both the management and financial rehabilitation programs of ICEL and
CORELCA. Most of the studies were completed largely on time, but the implementation of recommendations was not carried out
satisfactorily. A 75% compliance Is given to actions and a 20% to success of reform goals (Annex 5, parts. 21-22).
(8) Under the Loss Reduction Program (LRP), the sector reduced losses by 2.1% Instead of the 2.6% tarzet (Annex 5, Table 5.5, lines
26 and 38). Compliance was equivalent to 81%. Since the program only began in earnest after the CONES resolution of April 89, it
was operative only for 18 months Instead of 30, compliance with the timeliness of the action plan was only 60% (Annex 5, pars.
28-34).
(9) The Guavio Investment Program Incurred further cost (25%) and time (20%) overruns during the PSAL Also, Its management
Improvement tariets were only partially met and its accounts payable also increased above reasonasble commercial levels. It is
difrlcult to visualize a success factor greater than 70% (Annex 5, pares. 13-16).
(10) The sectoral environmental and resettlement commitments have been 100% compiled with by ISA. Those for Guavio on
account of the reported results (Annexes 3 and 4) could be considered to be 70%, with a weighted average of 88% /f a weight of 60% is
given to the sector and 40% to Guavio.
Ftlc:p3-tb7 cxl



45
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJ.ECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRIEF RECAPITULATION OF THE ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL BACKGROUND, 1987-90
1.    Background. In late 1984, following the collapse of the coffee boom of the late 1970s and
sharp increases in inflation and the fiscal deficit, the Colombia Government introduced an economic
adjustment program designed to achieve stabilization with growth. The 1984-86 adjustment program,
together with higher coffee prices and rapid expansion of petroleum and coal exports, substantially
improved both fiscal and balance of payments performance. Nontraditional exports and private
investment grew rapidly. As a result, the rate of GDP growth recovered from an average of only
1.6% during 1980-83 and 3.3% during 1984-85 to 5.8% in 1986.
2.    Initial Years of the Barco Administration. The economic adjustment program was maintained
by the Barco administration which took office in August 1986. Despite a sharp decline in coffee
prices, GDP growth was kept at 5.4% in 1987. The effect of the drop in coffee prices on the balance
of payments was offset by a large increase in private transfers and rising non-coffee exports,
particularly petroleum and coal. The current account showed a small deficit of 0.1 % of GDP in
1987. On the fiscal side, however, the strengthening of Central Administration revenues resulting
from the tax reform of the program was not able to compensate for the drop in coffee prices. The
fiscal balance deteriorated, registering a deficit of 1.8% of GDP. After difficult negotiations the
Government succeeded in obtaining a quasi-voluntary US$1 billion "Concorde" loan from the
commercial banks.
3.    While the 1984-86 economic adjustment program was able to restore some degree of
macroeconomic stability, particularly external balance, and economic growth by 1987, inflation
started to accelerate at the end of 1985. From 20% in 1986, the rate of inflation increased to 24% in
1987 and 28% in 1988. The authorities responded by reducing credit expansion and increasing
permitted agricultural imports. As a result of tighter monetary policy, more restrictive quotas on
coffee exports, and guerrilla attacks on oil pipelines, economic growth slowed in 1988 to a rate of
4.1%. The current account deficit rose to 1.0% of GDP in 1988 and the fiscal deficit increased to
2.7% of GDP.
4.    As the slowdown in economic growth continued into 1989, two developments occurred in the
middle of the year which further darkened the economic outlook for Colombia. First, the demise of
the International Coffee Agreement reduced international coffee prices by half, sharply cutting
earnings from Colombia's main export industry. Second, the assassination of presidential candidate
Luis Carlos Galan triggered a generalized conflict between the drug traffickers and the Government,
with adverse effects on the investment climate, increased fiscal pressures from the security effort, and
reduced drug-related revenue. The economic authorities responded quickly to the coffee-drug shock
by tightening credit policies and cutting investment and subsidies. As a result, the fiscal deficit was
reduced to 2.0% of GDP in 1989, and the inflation fell from its high of 28.1% in 1988 to 26% in
1989. Economic growth, however, continued to decelerate to 3.4% in 1989.



46
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
5.    Thus, after the initial recovery of economic growth in 1986-87 that followed the economic
adjustment program, the rate of GDP growth diminished indicating a deterioration in overall
macroeconomic performance. GDP growth fell from an average of 5.6% in 1986-87 to 4.1% in
1988, and 3.4% in 1989. Part of the slowdown in economic growth can be explained by the series of
internal and external shocks that occurred during the period and required continued stabilization
measures. Clearly, swings in international coffee and oil prices had a dominant and volatile influence
on both the balance of payments and the consolidated public sector deficit. The slow economic
growth of the G-5 countries in the late 1980s and the increase in global interest rates also influenced
the position of the balance of payments. However, the other major explanation of the deteriorating
economic performance was that the growth response to the correction in macroeconomic imbalances
in the mid-1980s could not be sustained without structural reforms to address microeconomic
efficiency issues. Indeed, by the end of 1989, the Colombian authorities had recognized that
economic stabilization measures alone would be insufficient to raise longer term productivity and
growth in the economy.
6.    The Economic Modernization Program. To address the longer term structural problems of
the Colombian economy the Barco Administration announced, in February 1990, an Economic
Modernization Program (EMP) to improve the efficiency of resource allocation and use. The EMP
contained a set of structural reforms and accompanying macroeconomic policies designed to raise
economic growth to 5% per year, bring inflation below 20%, and reduce the incidence of poverty.
The centerpiece of the EMP was a substantial trade reform program aimed at increasing the
competitiveness of the tradeable goods sector. Complementary financial and public sector reforms,
and industrial restructuring policies were designed to enhance factor mobilization, improve efficiency
in the use of resources and ensure an adequate supply response of the productive sectors. These
structural reforms were to be underpinned by fiscal and exchange rate policies to maintain internal
and external balance.
7.    Growth in 1990 was strong at 4.1 %, due mainly to exports, but inflation accelerated sharply.
From late 1988 through 1990, the Government had pursued an aggressive policy of devaluation to
counter the potentially adverse effects of the coffee-drug shock and of the trade liberalization on the
balance of payments. The Colombian peso in real terms was devaluated by 20% during 1989-90.
The slow response of imports to the trade liberalization program, together with the higher than
expected energy exports due to the Gulf crisis, resulted in a current account surplus of 1.5% of GDP
in 1990. International reserves grew by US$600 million, putting pressure on the money supply.
Along with a fiscal deficit close to 3% of GDP in the first half of 1990, this contributed to raise
inflation to 32.4% in December 1990, the highest level observed since the 1970s. Upon assuming
office in August 1990, the Gaviria administration announced its intention to reduce inflation
substantially during 1991. Fiscal policy was tightened in late 1990 and, aided by higher petroleum
prices, the fiscal deficit fell to 0.1 % of GDP for 1990 as a whole. In all, the acceleration of inflation
in 1989-90 seems to have been due to the aggressive devaluation by the Government. The
Government's exchange rate policy was inconsistent with fiscal and monetary policies and the initial
speed of trade reform.
8.    Importantly, the structural reform program initiated by the Barco Administration and
accelerated and expanded by the Gaviria Administration marked a significant break from the inward-
oriented development model of the past. The challenges now are to prevent backtracking, to



47
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
strengthen institutional capacity, to monitor the supply response of the private sector and remove
remaining barriers to that response, and to continue to adopt complementary policies.



48
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1.           The Colombian Power Sector did not accomplish the financial objectives set forth in
the 1987-90 Adjustment Program. Its weak regulatory framework prevented it from responding to the
heavy burdens imposed by the effects of higher than anticipated internal inflation, and devaluation of
the Col$ with respect to the USS. At the end of the Program the sector as a whole, although wiser
as to the need for fundamental regulatory and structural reform, was financially weaker. Serious
liquidity and solvency problems prevented it from servicing its debt and contribute to the relatively
large investments needs.
2.           The Government's long term objectives articulated in the Adjustment Program were
to: (i) improve the sector financial structure, by reducing the debt portion within the total financing
mix; (ii) lengthen the average term of the sector's debt, and gradually increase the sector's self
financing capacity through a sound pricing policy, based on economic principles; (iii) reduce
progressively, and eventually eliminate, Government contributions to the sector; and (iv) improve
financial discipline by ensuring prompt payment of electricity billings by Government and regional
institutions. At the end of 1990, the sector was still bearing a heavy debt service, as these objectives
had not been met.
3.           The final results of the most relevant financial parameters from 1987 to 1990, is
exhibited in tables 1 and 2, and depicted in graphs 1 through 8 for the period 1983-1992. Table 3
summarizes the evolution of the comparative financial projections and investment programs. All
tables and graphs compare actual results against those projected at the time of the Loan's appraisal.
The graphs also show proforma results for 1991 and 1992 as they were expected towards the end of
1990.1"
I/    Actual data was gathered from the financial tables of Annex B of the Loan Completion Report
prepared by FEN in May 1992. In this report FEN has made an admirable effort to present the
consolidated sector finances on a cash and accrued basis from COMPES and sector sources,
underlining that while the limitations of the data cannot support exact auditing precision, it provides
reliable orders of magnitude, sufficient to draw meaningful conclusions about the evolution of sector
finances and performance indicators. The data of the report is in turn based on the report 'Financial
Statements for Colombian Power Utilities - 1983 to 1990", formulated by FEN, dated January 1991.
The 1990-1992 data was taken from financial projections updated by FEN. Forecast data for the
Adjustment Program was taken from Annex 6 of the "Report and Recommendation from the President
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a Power
Sector Adjustment Loan to The Republic of Colombia", November 10, 1987. (Report No. P-4676-
CO).



49
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
First Objective
4.           Graphs I and 2 show that the expected improvement of the sector's capitalization
structure was not achieved. Actual total liabilities, short and long term, for 1990 were US$1.4 billion
higher than expected. This caused the debt over debt plus equity ratio to be actually higher at 62%
in 1990 than the actual value of 58% in 1987, and considerably higher than the expected 1990 value
of 47%.
5.           By the end of 1987, when the Adjustment Sector Loan was presented to the Executive
Directors, total liabilities of the power sector had already increased by some US$1.24 billion over the
value estimated during the appraisal mission of February 1987. At about US$5.9 billion, the debt
was already 27% higher than the starting value estimated under the Adjustment Program. About
US$0.8 billion of the increase were due to currency revaluations for the years 1986 and 1987.
Failure to update the principal parameters of the financial projections for the negotiations of the loan,
did not allow a proper revision of the financing plan of the Adjustment Program.
6.             During 1988-90, lower internal cash generation and lower levels of disbursements
from the external loans forced the Government to obtain larger disbursements from commercial banks
TABLE 1: COLOMBIAN POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Comparative Disbursement Program 1987 - 1990
(US $ Million)
Forecast         Actual          Variation
Existing Loans                             1,120          1499                379
FEN Local Borrowing                        402               n.a.            -402
Other Local Sources                        204               n.a.            -204
Cofinancing Loans                          1,330            1,589             259
I.B.R.D.                                300               225             -75
I.D.B.                                  300               141             -159
Eximbank Japana                         300                3/             -300
Comm.Banks and Suppliers                430               736             306
FODEX                                    0                487             487
Total Disbursements                        3,056            3,088             32
_/Because the Eximbank loan, intended to finance lengthy investments, had not been secured at the
time of negotiations of the PSAL (November 1987), it was unrealistic to have forecast the full
disbursement of that loan during 1987-90.



50
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
and from FODEX totalling US$793 million. Compensated in part by higher disbursements from
older existing loans (US$379 million), actual total disbursements under the program were close to the
cofinancing targets. However, the higher portion of borrowing at commercial terms at the end of
1990 resulted in a debt stock with shorter maturities and higher interest costs2'. Table 1 compares
planned vs. actual disbursements under the programn:
7.           The slow progress of the IDB loan reflects delays in compliance with disbursement
covenants. Although approved in 1989, effectiveness of the loan from the Eximbank of Japan was
delayed until the last quarter of 1991: first, by the negotiations of the sovereign guarantee of the loan,
and second, by the effects of the colombian financial reform of 1990-91 which modified the legal and
institutional frarnework of the borrower -- Financiera Energetica Nacional (FEN).
TABLE 2: COLOMBIAN POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Comparative Financing Plan 1987-1990
(US$ Millions)
Forecast         Actual          Variation
Investment Prgrm-excl.idc               2062             2102               40
Working Capital & Other Uses             234              -57             -291
Total Uses                              2296             2045             -251
Gross Cash Generation                   3128             2684             -444
Less Total interest incl.idc            1878             1655             -223
Net Cash Flow        A                  1250             1029             -221
Gov. Contrib. & Others B                 453              449              -4
Total Non Borrowed   A+B                1703             1478             -225
Gross Borrowing                         2,756            2863              107
Less Amortizations                      2163             2296              133
Net Borrowing       C                    593              567              -26
Total Sourcs     A+B+C                  2296             2045             -2S1
a/ This seemingly logical conclusion appears to be at variance with the actual interest expenses
reported as being 12% lower than estimated at appraisal. Only a full audit could determine whether
the source of the inconsistency lies with the 1991 consolidation of estimated actual results or with the
appraisal forecast figures (Table 2, line 5: and Table 3, lines 31 and 55).



51
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
Second Objective
8.           The second objective '... lengthen the average term of the debt stock and increase self
financing capabilities," was not achieved. The 1987-90 financial evolution of the sector (Table 3)
shows that, gross internal cash generation fell 14% below the target. This shortfall in sector
revenues, equivalent to USS 444 million, worsened an already poor record of compliance with
financial targets covenanted with multilateral financial institutions, and slowed both the disbursement
of recently approved loans, and the processing of new ones. These two outcomes produced a large
gap in the financing plan of the PSAL which, as pointed out above, the sector and the Government
acquiesced to fund through the traditional soft-budget-constrain mechanism. The latter was based on
emergency financing plans based on short term obligations, mainly Government funds through
FODEXY and direct Government loans. Contrary to the macroeconomic objectives of the
adjustment program, the diversion of these funds to the power sector contributed to the depletion and
curtailment of national budget resources earmarked for other sectors.
9.    The individual results of the large number of less efficient utilities were more dramatic than
suggested by the consolidated shortfall in net cash flow of US$221 million during 1987-90. This is
because of the lack of mechanisms enabling the transfer of resources from the surplus to the insolvent
utilities.
10.          Table 3 shows that the main components of the US$444 million shortfall in gross cash
generation were: (a) US$347 million from lower than expected income from sales, mainly because
average prices in real terms did not reach the proposed targets; (b) US$107 million from Other
Operating Income did not materialize; (c) US$164 million from higher operating expenses; and (d)
US$139 million from lower Other Income and Expenses not related to operations. These negative
outcomes were partially off-set by relatively lower depreciation costs and net exchange rate gains of
the dollar vs the currency basket of the sector (Table 3, line 63). Graph 3 depicts the sector's Gross
Internal Cash generation which except for 1987, fell below expected targets. Similarly, Graph ,
illustrates the negative trend of the Net internal Cash Generation which was US$860 million below
the financial plan estimate; the actual yearly values of this item have to be viewed with caution since
it depends on an arbitrary estimate of the interest during construction (idc).
11.          Groh 5, shows the historic variation of actual prices in current dollars; Graph
shows it in constant Colombian pesos of 1985; and Graph 7, expresses it as an index related to the
4/ The Fondo de Monedas Extranjeras (FODEX) was an account of transitory use managed by the
Banco de la Republica under a Government contract. Its purpose was to ensure the timely payment of
the foreign debt under sovereign guarantee. The growing financial problems of the power sector
prompted the Government into an increasing use of FODEX as a sort of automatic financing
mechanism to cover the debt service of the power sector. Faced with the inability of the power sector
to fund its debt service, the Government placed short and medium term securities with public entities
having surplus generation of foreign exchange (Ecopetrol, Telecom, National Coffee Fund), and
channeling these funds through short term loan agreements to the power utilities, at relatively
expensive commercial terms. The original goal of channeling internal savings to avoid temporary
monetary and macroeconomic misalignments, was debased when the power utilities begun defaulting
on a massive scale in its obligations to FODEX.



52
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
average price forecasted in the financial plan. Average prices, expressed in Col$ of 1985, were
slightly under forecasted. However, since devaluation of the national currency was higher than
anticipated, average prices expressed in dollars were 17% under the forecast for 1990.
12.          Graph 8, correlates total income projected versus actual sales figures. Total sales in
Gwh were only 0.5% higher than expected at the time of the appraisal, even though loss reduction
targets were not met. It is estimated that sales for 1987-1990 would have been US$347 million
higher, should sector utilities had complied with the proposed tariff increases in real terms,
particularly in relation to dollar equivalent values.
Third Objective
13.          The Government was unable to attain the third financial objective of reducing and
eventually eliminating government contributions to the sector as expected under the PSAL program.
During 1990, Government contributions were greater than expected particularly through the long and
short term funds borrowed from the FODEX facility. Massive capitalization programs continued
during 1991 and 1992 as part of the more realistic financial and institutional restructuring of the
sector approved by the new administration that took office in August 1990. In 1991, for instance, the
Government capitalized ISA by an amount equivalent to US$579 million by paying the accrued
receivables owed to ISA by the Government-owned utilities, in exchange for the ISA shares owned by
the utilities. As part of the sector restructuring strategy developed during 1991-92, the Government
developed a program to capitalize CHB, ICEL, CORELCA and subsidiaries in amounts over US$ 1
billion.
Fourth Objective
14.          The expected performance, in terms of number of equivalent days of sales represented
by the volume of Accounts Receivables, was far from satisfactory. The lack of updated accounting
information once again produced false expectations at the time of appraisal estimates, and large
discrepancies between forecast and actuals begun as early as 1987 (Table 3, line 75). The result was
that the 66 days of receivables expected by the end of 1990 were in fact 100 days.
Accounts Receivable Reduction Program
15.          The actual Government commitment under the PSAL was to settle in full the sector's
receivables owed by the central and regional governments and agencies. These receivables totalled
Col$10.6 billion (US$49 billion equivalent) at December 31, 1986, as follows: (a) 39% in actual cash
payments during 1988 (28%) and 1989 (I 1 %); and (b) 61% in payments or payment agreements.
About two third of the latter figure corresponded to arrears from the municipally-owned Empresas
Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB). The commitment under the PSAL also included that
the current electricity consumption of these official entities be paid on average within 66 days of
billing. These commitments became conditions of disbursement for the second and third tranches of
the PSAL.
16.          Full compliance with the cash payment targets was not met. The Bank however
regarded as satisfactory compliance for the disbursement of the second tranche, that the cash short
falls be added to the long term payment agreements. Despite the existence of a number of legal,



53
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
fiscal and budgetary instruments (retention of the value added tax due to the municipalities, off-setting
electricity billings with accrued debt owed by the utilities to FODEX) the pervasive problem of
Government and official accumulating arrears to the power utilities did not improve in any material
way. By the time of the third tranche, current billings had accumulated yet again. Also, most
agencies were delinquent in the payments due under the long term agreements signed to settle the
outstanding arrears at end-1986, and the Government was about to meet the letter of the arrears'
covenant through a new set of long term agreements. At the time of cancellation of the third tranche,
the long term objective of the PSAL to a reach satisfactory sustainable level of receivables had clearly
not been met.
Tariff Adjustment Program (PAT)
17.          In 1986, through Resolution 086 (R086), the Government had assumed control of the
tariff policy for electric power service by eliminating the utilities' discretionary faculty to request and
apply authorized rates. The main technical feature of R086 was the setting of targets based on the
structure of cost of service, social considerations and ability to pay. The residential tariff consisted of
fixed and variable charges. Fixed charges, depending solely on the ability to pay of each of six strata
(income brackets) in June 1987, ranged from Col$36.45/month to Col$1678.81 for the highest
bracket. The variable consumption charge was to reach the following LRMC targets gradually by
1994:
- 20 - 30% of LRMC by the subsistence block (0-200 Kwh/month)
* 50 - 80% of LRMC by the basic block (201400 Kwh/month)
* 90 - 125% of LRMC by the intermediate block (401-800 Kwh/month)
- 100 - 125% of LRMC by the high block (over 801 Kwh/month)
18.          Additionally, under R086, the TAP included the following principal commitments to
meet the above targets:
* the reduction of the residential subsistence block from 200 to 100 Kwh/month
whenever on-going gas and LPG electricity replacement programs approached 85%
coverage.
* the value of Residential rates would be increased according to the minimum wage
index plus 4%; and those of non-residential rates, according to the power sector cost
index plus 5%.
19.          For the particular case of EEB whose tariffs had the greatest distortions from LRMC
structure and levels, a program of gradual adaptation to R086 with the following main features was
agreed:
* the fixed charge for its residential rates was set at 50% of the national value to be
raised to 75% in 1988 and 100% in 1989.
* to lower the impact of converting to the new tariff structure a new block covering
consumptions from 200 - 300 kwh/month was introduced; it was agreed that this
block would be gradually phased out before 1993.



54
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
* any rate reductions required EEB's non-residential rates that were higher than
LRMC were to be introduced so as to preserve the company's overall revenues in real
terms.
20.          With the exception of EEB, the TAP was implemented in the larger cities in line with
R086. In most of the smaller cities, however, despite the carrying out of social stratification studies,
the implementation was flawed. It turned out that most of the residential consumers in the smaller
cities were classified as belonging to the lowest strata having the smallest fixed monthly charge. This
flaw was being looked into by the JNT at the end of the PSAL (9/30/90).
21.           Initially EEB did not comply in full with the gradual implementation of R086. It
delayed the adaptation to the national fixed charges by one year. It begun to reduce rates in real
terms to industrial and even to residential consumers, with resulting negative effects to its already
critical cash generation capacity. However, by the time of the third tranche, EEB had reportedly
caught up with its commitments under R086.



55                                     ~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 11
*                   ~~~~~~~09-Jun-93                        TABLE 3: COLOMBIA
I                              ~~~~~~~~POWER SECTOR ADJUSMENT LOAM (2a89-CO) - PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
2                                          COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS SUMMKARY (Current USS mitLLion) 1/
3  (FiLe: ANX2TBL3.wkil
4                                          ...1987---- ---198.8---- ---1989---- ---1990 ---                              ACUN  1987-1990    Differ.
S   ECONOMIC  ASSUMPTIONS                 S.A.R. ACTUAL    S.A.R. ACTUAL    S.A.R. ACTUAL    S.A.R. ACTUAL               S.A.R.  ACTUAL       1987-90
6   --  - - - -  - - - -  ---                  -    -- -       -- -    .. .       ..  .   ..  .       .. .    -- -     - --  -    --  -..        . .
7   INFLATION RATE                          20.0%  24.01        9.0%  28.1%       18.0%  26.1%        18.0%  32.4%
8   DEVALUATION RATE                         20.0%  20.4%       13.9%  27.4%       14.0%  29.2%        15.0%  31.0%
9   AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE (CoLS)              241    241         281    299         320    38           366     502
10   EXCHANGE RATE       (Year End)            263    26.4        299    336         341    434          392    568
11
12   GENERATION          (Gwh)        1/    29150  29493        30669  31152       32096  32575       33976  34319        125890  127539        1,649
13   ENERGY LOSSES       (Ci'?)       I/      6938   7113        7054   7571        7029   7491        7169   7295*        28189   29470        1,281
14   1 ENERGY LOSSES                  1/      23.8%  24.1%       23.0%  24.3%       21.9%  23.0%       21.1%  21.3%
is
16   SALES               (Gw'?)              22212  22536       23615  23714       25067  25202       26807  26786         97701   98239          538
17   AVERAGE RATE        (USS cts/Kwh)        3.95   4.28        4.23   4.20        4.52   4.2.3        4.84   4.03         4.11    3.74        -0.38
18
19   SALES               CUSS MilLions)        852    867         935    847        1052    904         1182    1055        4020    3673         -347
20   OTHER REVENUES                             64      41         71      46          79      49         88      58          301      194       -107
21   TOTAL REVENUES                            916    908        1006    893        1130    953         1270   1113         4321    3867         -454
22
23   OPERATING EXPENSES                        545    551         589    631         620    673          653    716         2407    2571          164
24   OPERATING INCOME                          371    357         417    262          510    280         617    397          1914     1296       -618
25
26   OTHER NET INCOME                           64      87         57      85          45     93          41   -196           208       69       -139
27   INTEREST CHARGED TO OPERATIONS            251    265         267    222          236    315         194     429          947    1231         28.4
28   NET IkCONE                                184    179         207     125        320       58        464   -228          1174      134      -1040
29 --------------------I----------------------------------------
3D   GROSS INTERNAL CASH GENERATION            650    721         719    669          819    750         940    544          3128    2684        -"44
31   Less: INTEREST CHARGED TO OPER.           251    265         267    222          236    315         194     429          947    1231         28
32
33   CURRENT SAVINGS                           399    456         453    447          583    435         747     115         2181    1453        -728
34
35   GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS                  150    lOS         130       85   - 100         38         10     123          390      351        -39
36                 From own resources          150    105         -20      -65        -50    -37          10     123           90      126         36
37                 From IBRD's PSAL              0       0        150      150        150      75          0       0          300      225        -75
38   CONSUMERS CONTRIBUTIONS                    20      18          14      27         14      4415                9           63       98         35
39      TOTAL OWN FUNDS                        569    579         597    559          697    517         772     247         2634     1902       -732
40
41   TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                       699    538         685     609         681    893         691    823          2756    2863         107
4.2    Existing Loans (foreign & Local)    443    538             318    310          20?    409         152    242          1120    1499         379
43    LocaL  Loans: FEW                         97      ne          79      ne        105      na        121      ria         402        0       -402
44             ~~~~~FWOEX-Lorig term        0       0                101                196                 190            0     487         487
45                   Other                      59      na         858      na         39      na         18      na          204        0       -204
46   LOANS TO COVER FINANCIAL GAP              100       0        200    198          330    288         400    391          1030      877       -153
47                                                                                                                              0        0          0
48   Less: AMORTIZATION                        486    458         499    512          549    795         629    531          2163    2296         132
49
50   NET BORROWINGS                            213      80        186      97         132      98         62     292          593      567        -25
51
52   TOTAL SOURCES                             782    659         78      656         829    615        8133     539         3226    2469        -757
53
54   INVESTMENTS                               502    526         554    634          550    475         456    467          2062    2102          40
55   INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION              205    106         198     127         237      95        290      96          930      424       -506
56   VARTN WORKING CAPITAL+OTHER USES           74      27         31   -105           42      45         87     -24          233      -57       -290
57
58   TOTAL USES                                782    659         782    656          829    615         8133    539         3226    24,69       -757
59.--    - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -    - -  - - --  - -   -  - - - -  - -      - -  - - -  - -   -  - - -  - - - -      - -  -
60 - DEBT EVOLUTION
61    INITIAL BALANCE                 2/      3868   4355        4102   5021         4301   4845        4442   5063          3868    4355         487
62     + NET BORROWINGS               2/       213    277         186    281          132    406          62    336           593    1301         708
63     + EXCHANGE RATE LOSS (GAIN)              21    389           13   -457           9   -189           5      34           48    -223        -270
64     FINAL BALANCE                          4102   5021        4301   4845         4442   5063        4509   5433          4509    5433         924
65   OTHER LIABIL. (SHORT  LONG TERM)    553    877              543   1242          526    895         495     999
66   TOTAL LIABILITIES                        4655   5898        4844   6087         4968   5958        5004   6432
67   TOTAL ASSETS                             8075   9224        8950   9795         9801  10269       10562  10346
68 -----------------------------------------------------------
69 - ANUAL TARIFF INCREASE             3/    5.81% 13.83%        7.09% -1.87%        6.86%  0.71%       7.082 -4.73%
70   RATE OF RETURN ON REV. ASSETS             5.2%    6.1%       5.1%   4.3%         5.8%   5.3%        6.6%   5.5%
71   NET INTERNAL GENERAT. CUSS Mill.)         -87      -2         -47     -65         34   -360         117   -416            18    -843         -860
72   2 INTERN.GEN./CONSTRUCT.                -12.3%  -0.3%       -6.2%  -8.5%         4.3% -63.2%       15.7% -73.9%
73   DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                    0.88   1.00        0.94   0.91         1.04   0.68        1.14   0.57
74   DEBT / (DEBT + EQUITY) RATIO             57.6%  63.9%       54.1%  62.1%        50.7%  58.0%       47.4%  62.2%
75   COLLECTION PERIOO                          82      116         79      99         71    116          66      100
76  --  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  -    --  - - -  - - -    - - - -  - - -     -- -  - - -  - -    - - - -  - - -  -    --  - -
77 - 1/  Consolidate-d figures excludes data of Empresas municipales de CaLi - EMCALI, except for rows 16, 17 arnd 18.
78   2/  Includes short term debt with FOOEX.
79   3/  Calculated in equivalent current USS.



56
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11
Graph 1
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Total Liabilities (US$ Mill.)
7000
6000 0
5000 -                                                          ---
4000
2000 _
1000 _
O'                  'I         I           I
1983           1985           1987            1989           1991
Adjustment Plan          Actual
Graph 2
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Debt / (Debt + Equity)                                   __t__Lt_
70%
0%r
1983          1985           1987           1989           1991
Adjustment Plan      $  Actual



57
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 11
Graph 3
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Gross Internal Cash Gener.(US$ Millions)                   _________
1200 -
1000 
600 1                                  
400I
1983           1985            1987            1989            1991
- Adjustment Plan             Actual
Graph 4
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Net Internal Cash Gener. (US$ Mill.)                     ______t_d
200                  =-
-200 
-400
-600\                                                                /.
--00V
-1000'               I      'I'                    i'I
1983           1985          1987            1989          1991
-   Adjustment Plan           Actual



58
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 11
Graph 5
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Average Price (Current US$ / KWH)                              Estimted
0.055 
0.045-
0.040
0.035,                        ,l                       l               l
1983            1985            1987            1989             1991
-     Adjustment Plan           Actual
Graph 6
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Average Price (Col$1985 / KWH)                                E_at_d_    i
8.5
7.5-
6.5 -
5.5-
4.5
1983            1985            1987            1989            1991
- Adjustment Plan          *  Actual



59                                     ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 11
Graph 7
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Adjustment Loan Average Prices = 100                         Estimated
115-
105-
95            -
85 
1985                 1987                 1989                 1991
4  Adjust.Loan         Actual (Curr.USS)       ^  Actual (Col$85)
Graph 8
COLOMBIA POWER SECTOR
Sales (US$ Millions)                                         Extim,t*d
1700 -
1500 
1300                                                        /
1100  /
900  _     
700I
1983           1985            1987           1989            1991
-    Adjustment Plan       +  Actual



60
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS OF THE PSAL
1.           This Annex summarizes the generally high extent of compliance by the Borrower with
environrmental conditionality in the Colombia Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL). The PSAL
included several innovative environmental features which may make it a useful model for the Bank's
power sector lending to other countries. This Annex does not address involuntary resettlement or
related socioeconomic issues which are reviewed separately in Annex 4.
Environmental Conditionality in the Power Sector Adiustment Loan
2.           In broad terms, the US$300 million PSAL (approved December 1987) had three
major environment-related conditions:
a. Preparation of a Least-cost Investment Program acceptable to the Bank, which
would guide the selection of all new power generation projects during the years 1991-
2000. The definition of "least-cost" was specifically intended to include
environmental costs;
b. Preparation and implementation of the ISA Social and Ecological Program, which
was indented to (i) strengthen the Colombian power sector's capability for effective
environmental planning, assessment, and management of its projects and (ii) address
several specific environmental problems in the sector; and
c. Satisfactory implementation of the Guavio Program, a series of activities intended
to correct the environmental (as well as social, financial, and managerial) problems
associated with the implementation of the Guavio Hydropower Project (Loan No.
2008-CO, approved in 1981).
Environmental Considerations within the Least-cost Investment Program
3.           Efforts by the Colombian power sector to incorporate environmental considerations
within the Least-cost Investment Program were both innovative and important. Electric power
generation in Colombia is predominantly hydroelectric (about 70 percent) and coal-fired thermal. To
date, less than 10 percent of Colombia's potential hydroelectric power capacity has been developed,
while most of the country's electric power service is connected to a national grid. As a result, there
remain many different options for future hydroelectric project sites, some of which would be much
less environmentally problematic than others, per unit of electricity produced. For example, the
recently-completed 1,600 MW Guavio project floods only about 1,500 ha of already mostly
deforested land; on the other hand, the proposed 860 MW Urra II project would inundate about
69,000 ha, most of which is tropical forest. To a lesser but still considerable degree, careful project
siting is also important for minimizing the environmental damage from thermal power projects.



61
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
4.            Under the PSAL, ISA developed an innovative methodology for partially internalizing
environmental costs within the process of power expansion planning throughout Colombia. Phase I of
this methodology involves the ranking and rating of each possible new hydroelectric project,
according to a list of some 75 different quantitative environmental indicators (which are normalized so
that all hydroelectric projects can be compared on the same scale). Although ISA's choice of specific
environmental indicators can be questioned, the indicators tend to be self-reinforcing, so that more or
less the same projects get consistently high (negative) environmental ratings, almost regardless of
which combination of indicators is used. For example, projects with very large, relatively shallow
reservoirs tend to get high (environmentally negative) scores according to a wide range of indicators,
including forest area flooded, cropland flooded, number of people resettled, susceptibility to early
sedimentation, water quality problems, effects on native fish populations, etc. ISA also developed a
similar Phase I methodology, involving about 19 different indicators, for environmental rating and
ranking of various possible new thermal power projects (though not for quantitatively comparing
thermal versus hydroelectric projects).
5.           ISA's more ambitious Phase II methodology approved by CASEC
(Annex 4, para.7) which quantifies the anticipated environmental costs of various proposed new
power projects in economic terms, was used in the Least-cost Investment Program prepared by ISA in
June 1992.
6.            The next three hydroelectric projects chosen for the 1992-2000 Least-cost Investment
Program have relatively low (Porce II, Miel II) or moderate (Urra I) environmental impacts. If the
process initiated by ISA for incorporating environmental considerations in power expansion planning
continues to be refined and seriously implemented, it is likely that the most potentially
environmentally damaging hydroelectric power projects in Colombia (including Urra I, San Juan,
Upia, and La Gabarra) will continue to be deferred indefinitely, in favor of those having lower
environmental impact. Taking into account the difficult methodological issues involved, the progress
achieved by ISA for incorporating environmental costs in selecting new projects is highly
commendable.
Implementation of the ISA Social and Ecological Program
7.            Under the PSAL, the preparation and implementation of the 1988-1990 ISA Social
and Ecological Program was indented primarily to strengthen the Colombian power sector's capability
for effective environmental planning, assessment, and management of its projects. The principal
environmental (not including resettlement-related) institutional strengthening achievements of the ISA
Social and Ecological Program were:
a. Through a partial reorganization, the hierarchical status of the in-house
environmental units of ISA and EPM (the Medellin electric utility) was significantly
elevated. ISA's environmental unit now has the status of an Office which answers
directly to the Director General. Also, new environmental units were created within
several regional electric power companies (CORELCA, ICEL, CHB, and CHEC);
b. The number of environment-related professional and technical staff within ISA and
the other electric power companies increased substantially. According to the ISA
Social and Ecological Program, the number of environment-related (including social)



62
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
staff in all of the Colombian power sector agencies was to increase from about 142 to
230 during a 3-year period;
c. The Power Sector Environmental Coordinating Committee (CASEC) was
established to exchange views and develop sector-wide environmental standards,
guidelines, and procedures. CASEC is comprised of all of the power sector
companies, as well as INDERENA (Colombia's principal natural resource agency),
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), and the National Planning Department
(DNP). CASEC apparently continues to function effectively today. It has
substantially improved coordination on environment-related issues between the various
electric power companies, as well as between the power sector and other Colombian
agencies; and
d. A 3-year (1988-90) environmental training program for the staff of ISA and other
Colombian power companies was prepared under the PSAL. This program involved a
total of 12 courses, ranging from 5-day (or shorter) workshops to 2-month university
courses. No assessment has been made yet as to the success of the training program.
8.           The ISA Social and Ecological Program also sought to address several specific
environmental problems in the Colombian power sector. In the context of the PSAL, the most
noteworthy of these actions to correct specific environmental problems were the following:
a. ISA continued to implement a large-scale pilot program to improve watershed
management for the Chivor (La Esmeralda) reservoir in Boyaca, which is suffering
from accelerated sedimentation attributable to deforestation and poor land use
practices. This US$29 million program involves the reforestation of about 50,000 ha
of large and small private landholdings (over a 10 year period), physical soil
conservation works, and protection of remaining natural forest areas. The Chivor
program is intended to serve as a model for how ISA or other electric power
companies can promote improved watershed management around those reservoirs
which are at risk from accelerated sedimentation. Evidence provided by ISA indicates
that the program has been quite successful in promoting improved land use practices,
including a substantial increase in tree cover in critical areas of the watershed. The
program continues at a reforestation rate of 1,500 ha p.a. funded by a 2% earmarked
tax on all hydroelectricity sold from the Chivor basin.
b. To identify a long-term solution for the management of ash (environmentally safe
disposal or recycling) from Colombia's coal-fired thermal power plants, ISA initiated
a detailed study of the Termo-Zipa (EEB) and Termo-Paipa (ICEL) plants, to be
followed by a pilot implementation program. These two power plants were
considered to have the most serious ash management problems. In 1989, the
Government reassigned the elaboration of the studies to ICEL to be carried out in two
phases. Phase I, completed in March 1992 characterized the various types of ashes,
and Phase II to be completed in July 1993 will recommend productive uses under
which the ashes could be disposed of, as well as mitigatory action plans.
Implementation of the recommendations are expected to be supported by the proposed
new power sector loan which the Bank is currently processing.



63
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
Implementation of the Guavio Program
9.            Adequate implementation of the Guavio Program was a condition of the PSAL. In
addition to activities intended to correct the serious financial, managerial, and resettlement-related
problems of the Guavio Hydropower Project, the Guavio Program under the PSAL included a variety
of environmental management activities, most of which were outlined in the 5-year (1988-1992)
Environmental Management Plan. Because the initial version of this Plan did not meet Bank
requirements, EEB (the Bogota Electric Power Company) revised and improved the Plan in 1988.
10.          Principal components of the revised Environmental Management Plan, and
implementation results, can be briefly summarized as follows:
a. Reforestation on private lands in the Guavio watershed has been remarkably
successful, with large numbers of trees planted and maintained by smallholders, as
well as by larger farmers. Supervision visits to the Guavio watershed confirmed that
recently-planted trees were thriving on many farms, particularly on the steeper parts
of those properties;
b. By contrast, efforts at reforestation of EEB-owned lands along the margins of the
reservoir were much less successful. Much of the reforested EEB-owned land has
been invaded by local people; there has also been much illegal grazing and theft of
barbed wire. According to the December 1990 supervision mission, these problems
had largely been avoided in those limited areas where EEB had hired local people as
full-time guards. Interestingly, manual reforestation of these areas was not really
necessary, since the natural regeneration of secondary forest vegetation was quite
rapid in those areas where cutting, burning, and grazing had been effectively
prevented;
c. Physical erosion control measures (such as gabions) had been successfully installed
in critical erosion-prone areas of the Quebrada El Moral; and according to the
Environmental Management Plan, a much larger area, encompassing steep lands along
several other streams, was to be treated in a similar manner.
d. Protection of the existing natural forest and paramo vegetation in the upper Guavio
watershed was never implemented with any real success by EEB. EEB placed most
of the responsibility for this work with INDERENA, which lacked the staff and
budgetary resources to do more than a cursory job. Despite the written
recommendations of several Bank supervision missions, EEB never contracted with
local municipalities to hire forest guards (as ISA had successfully done in the Chivor
watershed); and
e. Erosion control measures along the newly-constructed Gachala-Gama road became
necessary after landslides and heavy erosion threatened to increase substantially
sedimentation in the Guavio reservoir. As of the December 1990 supervision mission,
reasonably effective erosion control measures had been implemented in the road
segment between Gachala and the Rio Farallones, but similar measures were still
needed along the road between the Rio Farallones and Gama.



64
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
11.          In addition to the activities included within the 1988-1992 Environmental Management
Plan, the Guavio Program required that EEB prepare a biomass clearing program for the reservoir
area by March 31, 1988. EEB did not meet this deadline. However, the July 1988 and January 1989
supervision missions reported that biomass removal from the reservoir area did not appear necessary
from the standpoint of water quality or other environmental considerations.
Main Lessons Learned
12.          As the above information indicates, implementation of the PSAL has generally been
highly positive from an environmental standpoint. In many respects, the Colombian power sector has
become a leader within the LAC Region in incorporating environmental considerations within the
planning and management of its hydroelectric and thermal power projects in a relatively routine and
systematic manner. It appears that some of the environmental features of the PSAL could be
successfully incorporated within the Bank's electric power (investment or adjustment) lending for
other LAC countries.
13.          The PSAL illustrates the importance of including environmental considerations in
least-cost power sector expansion planning. Despite the methodological complexities involved, this
process is necessary for avoiding those hydroelectric project sites which would inevitably be highly
damaging from an environmental standpoint (notwithstanding any environmental mitigation measures
which may be taken after the site selection is made). The generally positive experience of the
Colombia PSAL demonstrates that including environmental concerns in power expansion planning is
both desirable and feasible, for hydroelectric as well as other types of new generating capacity.
14.          The PSAL also shows that sector adjustment loans can provide important opportunities
for environmental institutional strengthening of key sectoral agencies. The capacity of the Colombian
power sector to address environmental planning, assessment, and mitigation issues in a competent and
systematic manner has improved substantially in recent years, apparently largely due to the incentives
provided by the PSAL. Even though sector adjustment loans are not subject to the same
environmental assessment requirements in the Bank as are sectoral or project-specific investment
loans, they nonetheless often merit attention in terms of opportunities for environment-related policy
reforms or institutional strengthening.
15.          The relatively mixed record of environmental management in the Guavio Project
highlights the importance of having a well-developed and detailed environmental management plan
(with a specific budget, timetable, and implementation targets) before project construction begins.
(An acceptable Environmental Management Plan for Guavio was produced in 1988, long after
construction had begun.) The Bank's environmental assessment procedures (as codified in OD 4.01)
now require that (for "Category A' environmentally sensitive projects) a draft environmental
management plan be prepared prior to the start of appraisal.
16.          The Bank's experience with the environmental aspects of Guavio also points to the
importance of adequate Bank supervision. The quality of EEB's environmental work at Guavio
(while never satisfactory) appeared to improve significantly during the 1988-1990 supervision of the
PSAL. The Bank's relatively frequent supervision visits to Guavio in recent years have helped to
reduce environment-related problems in the Project area.



65
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RESETTLEMENT AND SOCIAL COMPONENTS OF THE PSAL
1.    Three points on social concerns come through from the restrospective evaluation of the results
of the PSAL. The first is that under the PSAL Colombia developed one of the most advanced
planning capabilities for addressing social concerns among Bank borrowing countries. The second is
that the Guavio program under the PSAL was a corrective action on a major problem missed during
Bank appraisal of the Guavio project (Loan 2001-CO) and inherited by the PSAL. The third is that
the development and improvement owes a lot to the very active Bank supervision throughout
implementation of the PSAL. Bank insistence on implementing the resettlement policy (OMS 2.33,
OPN 10.86, and OD 4.30) and the project's legal understandings, as well as the provisioning of
technical assistance through specialized staff and consultants, were essential elements in following
through on the PSAL's social objectives. They are important lessons (paras. 9, 10) because the
general role played by the Bank extends well beyond this project.
project Background
2.    The Guavio Prosram - The Guavio Hydro Project (Ln. 2001-CO) was appraised in 1981.
Project appraisal stated that 'since only some 250 scattered families live in the entire project, EEEB
will simply purchase the land; no resettlement would be necessary" (SAR para. 4.24, emphasis
added). This assumption turned out to be incorrect. More than 6,000 people lived in the project's
submergence and construction zone who would be involuntarily displaced. Compensation for
acquired lands was managed by the project's land acquisition office, which provided cash
compensation against proof of land title. Because of widespread fear, mistrust, and lack of
information about legal entitlements, outside middlemen were able to move in and acquire titles at
below market rates from the legitimate owners. As a result up to a third of the affected population
took what money they could and left the project area. Because no baseline surveys of the project
affected population were conducted, it is not known how many of the displaced people were tenants
or sharecroppers who, despite Bank policy (OMS 2.33 'Social Issues Associated with Involuntary
Resettlement, 1980), lost their means of livelihood but received no compensation or resettlement
benefits.
3.    A 1986 Bank-wide resettlement review identified Guavio as a project with serious resettlement
issues that were not being adequately addressed by the borrower. At the same time that Guavio's
problems were revealing themselves, a Bank consultant's sectoral review noted that the sector lacked
the institutional capabilities needed to deal with the diverse social problems confronting the sector.Y'
1/ See "Social and Environmental Planning in the Colombian Electrical Sector,
Project files.



66
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
PSAL Obiectives
4.    The Power Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) contained two major objectives. First, under
ISA's guidance a sectoral social strengthening program would be prepared that would include a
staffing plan, budget, and training program. Second, under the 'Guavio programn", EEEB would
complete the resettlement of families affected by the dam, establish an office of community relations,
prepare a regional development plan jointly with the surrounding municipalities, and monitor
implementation of all programs. A third objective was subsequently added: the development of a
social methodology to incorporate all social costs into the environmental least-cost expansion
methodology that was being prepared.
Achievements and Continuity
5.    The project's social strengthening program has been very successful. An internal analysis of
staff needs proposed 33 professionals. These were hired and trained through the project, and by the
time of project closure all member utilities had social units staffed by trained professionals. The
clearest indicator of the success of this program is that all three (URRA-340MW, Miel-385MW,
Porce-390MW) of the projects prepared for financing under the 1991-2000 construction program
prepared resettlement programs that, unlike Guavio, had social programs that met or exceeded the
Bank's resettlement policy requirements.
6.    ISA's social and environmental unit provided overall coordination for the development of
sectoral policies through the Power Sector Environmental Coordinating Conunittee, an inter-agency
working group made up of all member utilities, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Natural Resource
Secretary (NDERENA), and the National Planning Department (DNP). Despite some internal
differences, this committee has been an effective coordinating body and vehicle for developing
sectoral policies. In 1991, after two years of discussion, CASEC approved a binding sectoral policy
on involuntary resettlement that parallels the Bank's resettlement policy. Social concerns, including
requirements for local participation and consultation, have been incorporated into the EIA
methodology adopted by the sector.
7.    CASEC has adopted a methodology prepared by ISA which incorporates social as well as
economic, technical and environmental costs into the least cost expansion program. The methodology
includes a stepped set of information requirements and generic terms of reference for the studies that
should have been completed at each stage of the project development cycle. Despite a certain amount
of arbitrariness (i.e. one tribal member 'counts' as much as two peasants) that requires further
refinement, the methodology is a unique and valuable planning innovation that should be incorporated
into the national planning guidelines.
8.    Implementation of the Guavio program has been erratic, although substantial improvements
are noted. EEEB's overall financial crisis produced periodic cutbacks that required repeated Banlk
intervention to ensure timely implementation of the resettlement and community development
programs. The Office of Community Relations formed an effective field team that made significant
progress towards redressing a difficult situation. A regional development plan acceptable to EEB and
the Bank was developed and has been underway since 1991. Three-hundred-thirty families that were
either displaced or seriously affected by the project are being treated by new programs designed to
ensure that their incomes are restored or improved through production based resettlement, health
services, and community development activities. After a two year delay, EEB agreed to make



67
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
available surplus lands for outstanding resettlement cases. Finally, a legal assistance program
provides special counsel to the affected population that is attempting to seek redress through the
courts. It should be noted, however, that a substantial percentage of population adversely affected by
the project has left the project area.
Lessons learned
9.    Three lessons stand out from the PSAL's experience with social issues. ELrt, the project
points clearly to the value of a sectoral approach to project planning. The sectoral policy and the
least cost expansion methodology introduced consistency of approach and basic planning standards
into what previously had been an arbitrary and highly unsatisfactory set of procedures. Second, the
sector's experience with social planning under this loan compared with the Guavio project reinforces
the Bank's requirement to prepare resettlement plans as part of an overall project package.
Throughout implementation, the Guavio program suffered from being a rearguard, ad-hoc action that
had to overcome resistance both from within the project and, of course, from the inadequately
resettled communities. Finally, the project's emphasis on strengthening the sector's institutional
capabilities by hiring and training experienced social scientists, increasing their access to project
decision making, and introducing a mechanism for inter-institutional coordination produced major
improvements in how social issues are handled in the sector.
10.   The appraisal and implementation of the Guavio project itself also has many lessons to offer
the Bank. The Bank's failure to appraise the Guavio project adequately and continued failure to
supervise the social program in the early years of implementation sent a signal to the project
management that these issues could be left aside, which they were until they reached crisis levels. By
the same token, the rigorous conditions and increased supervision under the PSAL produced a
corresponding increase in the attention paid them by the borrower. Since strengthening the sector's
social policies and institutional capabilities were defined as a project objective from the outset,
relations between the Bank and borrower remained constructive throughout project implementation.
Today the Colombian power sector is among the Bank's most advanced borrowers in its ability to
manage social issues, and the PSAL rightfully deserves to be considered a major success in this
respect.



63                                  ANNEX S
Page 1 of 21
COLOMBTA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (2889-CO)
OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS OF THE PSAL
1.    This Annex summarizes the objectives and the results actually achieved during the implementation
of the 1987-90 Adjustment Program, and the principal issues associated thereto.
Macroeconomic objectives
2.    The Sector Loan was intended to address both macroeconomic and sector issues. With this Loan,
the Government and the Bank sought to support Colombia's overall adjustment program and catalyze the
mobilization of funds from commercial banks, the IDB, and the Eximbank of Japan to the power sector.
The Govermment regarded the PSAL as a key element of its foreign debt strategy. The mobilization of
external funds to the power sector was to release resources towards sectors with lower foreign capital and
import requirements, enhance resource allocation through more rational pricing policies, and improve the
management and efficiency of public enterprises.
3.    The Governrment, with support from the multilateral institutions, was successful in mobilizing
funds from commercial banks pursuant to its overall foreign debt strategy. The objective of mobilizing
external funds to the power sector to release internal resources towards other sectors, however, was not
met. Lower than expected internal savings from the power sector, and difficulties in meeting conditions
of effectiveness of cofinancing loans, forced the Govertiment to distract a substantial amount of funds
totalling some US$793 million (from FODEX and commercial banks) to close the financing gaps of the
power sector during 1987-90 (Annex 2, paras. 6-9).
Sectoral obiectives
4.    The PSAL was to support the Government's reform programs in the power sector whose principal
objective was to improve the supply and demand efficiency of power generation, transmission, and
distribution. This goal was to be achieved by (i) rationalizing investments, (ii) bringing electricity pricing
in line with LRMC, (iii) financing a larger share of future investments from sector cash generation and
thereby reducing pressure on other public sector investments, and (iv) improving the regulatory
f-ramework and utility management. Specifically, the reform program consisted of action plans to
improve critical areas as summarized in the following paragraphs.
Investment and imDlementation policies
5.     To coordinate planning across all energy subsectors and to ensure that the use of the country's
vast energy resources and investrnent plans took due account of Government policies, the PSAL included
(a) the creation of an Energy Board (Comision Nacional de Energia - CNE); and (b) the strengthening
of the implementation role of ISA by granting it the authority to construct, own and operate all future
major generation and transmission projects.
6.    Belatedly, Law 51 of October 24, 1989 created the Energy Board which became operational only
in mid 1990. Although it was unable to influence the implementation of the PSAL, the Energy Board
rapidly became instrumental in developing an approach to integral energy planning, in liaising the energy



69
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 21
subsectors, and most importantly, in gathering and coordinating the required consensus to initiate and
carry out the drafting of a new electricity law to fundamentally reform the sector.
7.    In January 1990, after difficult internal discussions, the GOCOL complied perfunctorily with
assigning ISA the sole right of builder, constructor and owner of all major generation and transmission
facilities in the sector. This condition of the PSAL was strongly resisted by all the regional utilities
which were loath to relinquishing the option of building their own facilities regardless of size. It also
proved to be ineffective in the context of a sector in need of substantial reform to become independent
from Government support, operate competitively and attract private investors.
The 1987-1990 investment program
8.    To minimize future excess generation, utilize to the extent possible current installed capacity, and
take account of the financial restrictions of the sector and of the public investment program, the
adjustment program involved (i) postponing construction of new hydroelectric projects totalling 3200 MW
and equivalent to US$ 1.3 billion during 1987-90; (b) completing all ongoing generation and associated
transmission projects, with delayed schedules when feasible, in particular completion of the Guavio
project (1000 MW) was delayed to 1992; and (iii) limiting investments in distribution to those intended
to reducing energy losses, and maintaining electric service coverage in urban areas and the current
investment pace in rural areas. The resulting 1987-90 investment program would total US$2,062 million
broken down into 42% in generation projects, 23% in transmission, 31% in distribution, and 4% in
studies and other.
9.     The dollar amount of the 1987-90 investment program was met fairly closely. Actual results
exceeded the target by only 2%. The overall figures, however, hide the following important results (table
5.1): (a) the tight liquidity of the sector and particularly qf EEB caused an increase in investrnent payables
of some US$314 million (15 %); (b) the investment programs of EPM, ISA, and CORELCA, principally
in transmission and distribution were reduced (postponed) considerably by the delay of the US$300
million cofinancing loan from the Eximbank of Japan, which became effective in late 1991 instead of in
mid 1988; (c) the USS80 million loss reduction component of the loan signed with the IDB in 1987 could
not disburse because the target borrowers did not meet the required covenants; and (d) EPM's important
Rio Grande II Hydro power project (300 MW) was delayed by two years because of difficulties in
obtaining import licenses from INCOMEX for key components of the project.
10.   The results of the 1987-90 investmnent program indicate that while the macro target was met,
important individual targets at the project level having an important bearing on the reliability of the
system, were not.
The 1991-2000 investment program
11.   It would be defined during the execution of the PSAL based on an improved least-cost planning
methodology. Also, the Government would not start new investments in generation unless included in
the least-cost program, and investments in rural electrification beyond those contemplated in the 1987-90
program would proceed exclusively on the basis of secured additional financing.
12.   After some initial difficulties with the new parameters and objective functions, the above goals
were successfully met. The least cost methodology developed by ISA under the supervision of the PSAL
introduced a number of innovative features used for the first time in Latin America. It took into account
constraints imposed by the (a) transmission system; (b) national and sectoral financial limitations; and (c)
environmental and social factors. In the latter context a remarkable methodology was developed to
internalize the costs and benefits of the ecological and social impacts of the various types of projects



70
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 21
(hydroelectric, and thermal - coal, fuel oil, diesel, gas) ranking them according to impact indices. Also,
for the first time the effects of a possible interconnection with Venezuela, as well as the replacement of
gas for electricity for domestic consumption were taken into account in the planning process. Based on
these methodological improvements, in June 1992, ISA prepared the first indicative least-cost investment
plan for the power sector based on several probable scenarios oriented to attract private investment.
The Guavio project
13.   The 1000 MW Guavio hydroelectric project, the largest ever in the power seetor which was being
executed under a partnership agreement among EEB and ISA's shareholders, was having extensive time
and cost overruns. EEB had primary management and financial responsibilities for the project whose size
and complexity had placed major strains on its management and finances. Under the PSAL, the
Government sought to ensure satisfactory completion of the project through an updated financing plan
and a revised more effective management structure.
14.   Table 5.2 summarizes Guavio's financing plan as proposed under the PSAL. It also shows the
summary yearly grand totals of a revised financing plan prepared in 1991 based on real data through
1990. The figures suggest that Guavio's continuing difficulties, while declining, still prevented meeting
the PSAL financial and physical and targets. The main results were (a) a US$129.2 million (16%)
underinvestment during 1987-90; (b) some USS410 million (25%) additional cost overrun; and (c) one
more year delay postponing its completion date until 1993.
15.   The principal problems affecting the smooth implementation of Guavio, which had a critical
dependence on financial contributions from ISA's shareholders, were the sector's continuing illiquidity
and growing uncommercial practices, particularly those of EEB. The traditional strong municipal and
trade union influence, prevented EEB's management from following a proactive rational tariff policy and
introducing long overdue operational efficiency improvements. ISA'a shareholders were also unable to
meet planned contributions to Guavio because of similar liquidity problems. To ameliorate the acute
funding constraints of the project EEB resorted to extreme current liability financing by increasing its
accounts payable related to purchased energy (from ISA) and contractor's billings. These practices
caused a deterioration in the compliance with financial covenants of existing multilateral loan agreements
which in turn delayed the processing of new multilateral and linked commercial financing operations
included in Guavio's financing plan.
16.   In June 1988, the Governmnent created a Management Steering Committee for Guavio composed
of management representatives from the shareholding companies. The Steering Committee had a
significant positive effect in the overall management of the project. Its mandate of issuing 'prior formal
opinions' on all fundamental project matters improved the implementation transparency of the project.
But, handicapped by the above mentioned financial constraints, the improved management framework
failed to demonstrate its effectiveness.
Institutional framework
17.   Establishing appropriate mechanisms for monitoring the efficiency and performance improvement
plans of the sector utilities on an accrued basis had proven to be a historically intractable long term
problem. Under the adjustment prograrn the Government had approved the establishment of a Monitoring
Committee for the Power Sector (MCPS) to be comprised of top representatives of the MME, MHCP,
and DNP. Reporting to MME and with the technical support of FEN, the MCPS was to monitor the
budget execution, financial operations and yearly expenditure allowances of the power utilities.



71
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 21
18.   In particular, the MCPS was to monitor compliance with all the targets of the adjustment program
through an ad-hoc monitoring system negotiated to be in place by December 31, 1987. Before Board
presentation, this date was renegotiated to March 31, 1988. Lack of compliance with this key condition
was the main cause for amending the loan agreement to enable loan effectiveness to take place just before
the due date of June 16, 1988. The new amended date of September 30, 1988 was complied with,
although the system did not become fully operational until April 1989. By Supreme Decree of June 21,
1989, the status of the MCPS was upgraded and its name changed to Superior Council of the Power
Sector (SCPS) to enhance its effectiveness and carrying out increasing monitoring responsibilities.
19.     Once the MCPS was properly staffed and equipped, it begun producing the much awaited
reports assessing progress and the true extent of the adjustment program. In its first report of July 30,
1988, the MCPS, underlining the extreme complexity of what was supposed to be a quick disbursing
adjustment operation, identified over 130 conditions relating to the covenanted targets of the PSAL.
Based on this report and using relevance indices and probability weights the Bank made, for the first
time, a reality check on this adjustment operation (Part III, Table 6). It concluded that the PSAL's
chances of success under normal conditions were only 75%1. This prognosis proved to be fairly
accurate. In September 1990, when the Government decided to cancel the last tranche of the PSAL,
accumulated disbursements had reached 75% of the original amount of the loan.
20.     At the end of 1990, the frequency, quality and timeliness of the financial and operational
information of sector utilities remained largely similar to their 1987 status. In the absence of an
evaluation study It is difficult to assess the extent in which the PSAL's goal of strengthening the overall
monitoring system of the sector was met. The goal of monitoring the PSAL targets, particularly of the
electricity loss and accounts-receivable reduction programs, were partially met by the MCPS/SCPS. It
is also acknowledged that the MCPS/SCPS brought about a significant improvement in sector
coordination, institutional dialogue, follow up of key operational and commercial individual and
consolidated sector performance indicators, and a greater awareness of the weaknesses of the sector
regulatory framework. One lesson evolves. If the SCPS and the monitoring system had been created
much earlier in the preparation phase (a condition of preappraisal perhaps) the design, targets rationale,
overall ownership and implementation of the PSAL would have been significantly improved.
Utility manazement
21.   ICEL and CORELCA. The Adjustment Program included (a) the definition of the long term
policies and institutional settings of the ICEL and CORELCA groups; and (b) the rehabilitation of the
management and finances of ICEL and CORELCA (as parent companies) and of its 22 subsidiary utilities.
Based on strategic and management studies, action plans were to be defined and implemented in a
satisfactory manner. Also, the Government was to make equity contributions of US$240 million to these
two groups.
22.   Through a considerable effort made by the Government, sector agencies, and the Bank, three
consultant groups carried out the studies and defined the action plans largely on time. The Bank
supervision team, based on estimates contained in progress reports, indicated that satisfactory progress
was being achieved before the disbursement of the second tranche. Similar satisfactory progress was
reported prior to the disbursement of the third tranche. Yet, the final operational and financial results
(ANNEX 2) indicate that most of the management and financial rehabilitation goals and targets were not
met. Equity contributions of only US$197 million were made by the Government instead of the US$240
1. Back-to-office report, October 6, 1988.



72
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 21
million2. Furthermore, the long term policies for ICEL and CORELCA were not formally defined by
the Government, even though the strategic study on long term policies was timely completed and
delivered to the Bank in January 1988. The study recommendations on integration of markets and need
to reform the ownership structure of the utilities, while largely subscribed by the Govermment, could not
be formalized because such action required regional consensus (MME's letter of January 18, 1988).
Also, important productivity targets were not met. For instance, ICEL's work force, agreed to remain
frozen, increased by 1,450 (18%) during 1987-90.  Tables 5.3 and 5.4, summarize the level of
compliance with the rehabilitation action plans of the ICEL and CORELCA groups and of its
electrificadoras as reported by the supervision missions of the Bank.
23.    Ea's acute and deteriorating management and financial problems were a source of deep concern
to the Government and multilateral institutions. The statutory municipal control of EEB's corporate
activities, and ensuing low level of management discretion were regarded as the major hurdles to solving
EEB's overall problems. The Adjustment Program therefore included a comprehensive corporate study
to help identify acceptable solutions to the Government and municipality.  Based on the study's
recommendations a management improvement action plan to be submitted by December 31, 1988, became
a condition for the PSAL's third tranche.
24.   A management change in mid 1988, introduced initial delays in the implementation of EEB's
program. The new management, however, with the help of a hands-on management consultant introduced
some effective changes, such as the creation of a Commercial Division and Internal Control Groups. But
EEB's own financial problems, compounded many times over by those of GUAVIO, proved once again
overwhelming, even to the new and capable management team because it lacked the minimum autonomy
required to overcome them.
25.   Eventually, EEB contracted two corporate management studies: one with Electricite de France
(EdF) under the on-going 2634-CO Distribution loan from the Bank, to provide long term structural
solutions; and the other, under the PSAL, with and individual consultant to define an action plan to
implement immediate management solutions. After considerable delay, the studies were ready in mid-
1990. EdF's main recommendation, that full corporate and budgetary independence be given to EEB's
management, was not implemented. The action plan for short term solutions was delivered to the Bank
in October 1990, after the cancellation of the PSAL's third tranche.
26.   The small, though visible, management improvement that took place in EEB was deemed
satisfactory by the Bank before disbursement of the second tranche of the PSAL. On this basis the dated
covenant relating to the presentation of the management studies was waived until mid-1990. Prior to the
third tranche, the presentation of the EdF study was also regarded as satisfactory progress although a
satisfactory action plan to implement the study recommendations, nor the action plan for the immediate
management solutions had been presented to the Bank.
27.   The important PSAIPgoal of improving EEB's management was not met. This conclusion stems
from EEB's deplorable financial and operational results and poor performance under most on-going
programs during 1987-90. Substantial under-performance by EEB led to the partial suspension of loan
2634-CO in October 1991, and became the principal obstacle in mobilizing existing and new funds from
the multilateral institutions to the sector.
2. FEN's report of February 16, 1994.



73
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 21
Electricity losse
28.   Since 1976, consolidated electricity losses had soared from 17% to 24% in 1987. At some of
the individual utilities losses were as high as 40% (Narifio). The largest contributors to the high losses
were EEB, and the electrificadoras of CORELCA and ICEL. Losses in the EPM and CVC systems had
also increased to unacceptable levels topping the 20% mark. Through the adjustment program, the
Governmnent wanted to ensure the implementation of the various loss reducAtion programs covenanted with
the utilities under loans 2634-CO from the Bank to EEB US$150 million) and 237/IC-CO from IDB to
CORELCA, ICEL and CVC (US$80 million) through FEN.
29.   At the time of negotiations of the PSAL in October 1987, the existing loss reduction programs
were already over 20 and 15 months late in EEB and the rest of the sector respectively. Yet, the targets
of the original programs were replicated under the PSAL, ostensibly: without an in depth evaluation of
their technical validity and political rationale; and, in an unusual complication for an adjustment
operation, the targets were agreed on an individual basis for EEB, EPM, CVC and ISA, and only as a
group for the utilities of ICEL and CORELCA. The agreed targets became conditions for the second
and third tranches of the PSAL.
30.   The first supervision mission of March 1988, and the first progress report prepared by the MCPS
in July 1988 took exception at the covenanted targets. In the case of EEB, they were clearly over
optimistic; losses were to decrease from a theoretical 24.6% in 1987 (26% real) down to 16% in 1990.
Whereas in the case of EPM CORELCA and ICEL, the targets were too soft. After a reassessment of
the program at each utility, the Bank agreed to amend the targets to more realistic values prior to the
disbursement of the second tranche.
31.   Table 5.5 and Graphs 5.1 through 5.6 show the original and arnended targets, together with the
monthly evolution of the program during end-1988-90 At September 1990, except for EEB, compliance
with all the individual targets were regarded as satisfactory by the Bank. Both CORELCA and ICEL had
exceeded their targets by 6% and 0.5% respectively; EPM and CVC were under by less than 5%; and
EEB was nearly 17% under.
32.   It could be argued that the loss targets should have been properly evaluated before the negotiation
of the PSAL. However, the renegotiation of the targets prior to the disbursement of the second tranche
would indicate that the contracting parties, to avoid undue processing delays of the loan, were amenable
to revise mutually agreed targets for those that proved unrealistic during the implementation of the PSAL.
33.   EEB was unable to comply with the renegotiated targets because of lack of institutional
commitment and management weaknesses (para. 27). EEB's compliance was also affected by a
procurement problem, outside its control, in the purchase of 100,000 electricity meters from a Rumanian
firm.
34.   Even considering that US$80 million from IDB supporting the loss reduction programs of ICEL
and CORELCA remained undisbursed during the implementation of the PSAL, the rapid reduction of
losses experienced by the CORELCA and ICEL groups (graphs 5.5 and 5.6) is not unusual.
Govermnent-owned utilities operating with soft-budget constraints, selling a substantial amount of power
to other non-private regional or Government-owned consumers (water companies, public lighting, public
buildings) who do not pay their electric bills, find it cost-effective to stop billing this type of
consumption. Such a policy has the effect of showing larger electricity losses and smaller accounts-
receivable in their financial statements than is really the case. Conversely, as soon as they resume
billings, the corresponding unaccounted-for electricity is statistically recovered, energy losses are
suddenly reduced, and accounts-receivable increased. It is believed that this phenomenon together with



74
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 21
the reported actual measures to reduce losses are responsible for the rapid improvements shown. Once
the reported results of the PSAL are technically and financially audited, it would be possible to ascertain
the actual performance of each utility.
Ecological and social aspects
35.   See Annexes 3 and 4.
Financial adiustment program
36.   See Annex 2.



5ANNX  5
75                                                Page  7 of 20
1 TABLE 5.1
2 Comparative Investment Program
3 (Current USS miLLion)
4 ---------------------...............................
5
6 Adjustment Plan  1/           1987   1988   1989   1990        1987-1990
7 ------------------            ....  ....  ....  ....   ---------
8      E E B                   197.5  213.9  177.1  127.3            715.8
9      E P N                    86.2  131.6   78.8   33.9            330.5
10      C V C                     7.5   16.7   16.1   10.7             51.0
11     I C E L                  40.1   38.5   59.5   55.6             193.7
12  ICEL Subsidiaries            19.8   29.9   34.9   36.6            121.2
13   C O R E L C A               48.7   16.3   33.1   47.3            145.4
14 CORELCA Subsidiaries          15.0   17.6   23.8   24.9             81.3
15      C N B                    31.8    0.0    0.0    0.0             31.8
16      I S A                    55.5   84.3  121.7   84.0            345.5
17 FUTURE GENERATION              0.0    1.0    4.1   42.6             47.7
18
19 Total (accrued basis)       502.1  549.8  549.1  462.9            2063.9
20
21 Actual Investment (unaudited figures)
22 -------2.........
23      E E S                   183.0  203.8  119.3  219.4            725.5
24      E P N                    70.6   61.0   50.9   76.2            258.7
25      C V C                     9.7   10.7   25.8   15.2             61.4
26     I C E L                   31.9   31.7    7.3   24.9             95.9
27  ICEL Subsidiaries            54.1   69.2   63.2   38.6            225.2
28   C O R E L C A               15.5   35.1   19.4   26.0             96.0
29 CORELCA Subsidiaries          21.1   25.6   15.8   12.1             74.7
30      C H B                    32.9   40.4    7.2   20.2             100.7
31      1 S A                    31.8   46.9   49.7   21.1            149.5
32 FUTURE GENERATION              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0              0.0
33
34 Total (cash basis)           450.7  524.3  358.7  453.8           1787.6
35 Est. unpaid accruals          75.3  109.7  116.3   13.2            314.4
36
37 TotaL (accrued basis)        526.0  634.0  475.0  467.0           2102.0
38
39
40 Actual vs Planned 2/
41 -----         . -
42      E E B                   -14.5  -10.1  -57.8   92.1              9.7
43      E P N                   -15.6  -70.6  -27.9   42.3            -71.8 3/
44      C V C                     2.2   -6.0    9.7    4.5             10.4
45     I C E L                   -8.2   -6.8  -52.2  -30.7            -97.8 3/
46  ICEL Subsidiaries            34.3   39.3   28.3    2.0            104.0
47   C O R E L C A              -33.2   18.8  -13.7  -21.3            -49.4 3/
48 CORELCA Subsidiaries           6.1    8.0   -8.0  -12.8             -6.6 3/
49      C N B                     1.1   40.4    7.2   20.2             68.9
50      I S A                   -23.7  -37.4  -72.0  -62.9           -196.0 3/
51 FUTURE GENERATION              0.0   -1.0   -4.1  -42.6            -47.7
52
53 Variation (cash basis)       -51.4  -25.5 -190.4   -9.1           -276.3
54 Variation (accrued basis)   23.9   84.2  -74.1    4.1               38.1
55
56
57 1/  Report P-4676-CO, Recomwndation to the Executive Directors,
58     Novefber 1987. (Attachment 5)
59
60 2/  Since most of the inordinate increase In estimated payables to
61     contractors can be attributed to EEG, the results for the other
62     utilities reflect accrued differences fairly closely
63
64 3/  These shortfaLLs refLect delays in transmission and distribution
65     investments caused mainly by the deLay of both the USS300 million
66     loan from the JEXIMBANK, and the USS80 miLLion loan from IDB (see
67     annex text pare. 9)
68
69         26-Jan-94
70 FiLe:ANXSTSL3.WK1



76                                                    ANNEX  5
FAL9 8 of 20
1 TABLE 5.2
2 Guavio Hydroelectric Project
3 Coqmarative Financing Plans Until conpletion
4 (Current USS million)
6                               Real b/
7                               accumul        PSAL - Tfe Slice                                     TOTAL
8                                  tilL  \- -------------------------s Ince    Grand
9                                  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1987    TOTAL
10                                .......  .......  ...........................     ..........................
11 AS FORECAST UNDER THE PSAL '/
12   Shareholders' contributions            43.9    74.6    77.1    71.0    77.4    51.2      0.0  395.2
13   ExIsting looa                         141.6    70.7    21.3    18.1   16.8    24.9       0.0   293.4
14   Future loans secured                    5.5    15.0   23.8    19.0    8.1        0.0     0.0    71.4
15  EEB own funds                           23.1    75.2    75.5    35.1    40.7      6.0     0.0   255.6
16
17  Total Investment              1036.5   214.1   235.5   197.7  143.2   143.0   82.1        0.0  1015.6  2052.1 bl
18  Accum. yeerly investment      1036.5  1250.6  1486.1  1683.8  1827.0  1970.0  2052.1  2052.1
19
20 AS FORECAST IN NOV/1991 bf
21  Real accumulated investment till 1990                          1697.8
22   Forecast investments till completion                                   343.3   317.2   103.7  764.2  2462.0
23   Accum. yearly investment                                      1697.8  2041.1  2358.3  2462.0
24
25 DIFFERENCES IN ACCUltLATED INVESTMENTS                          -129.2    71.1   306.2   409.9
27 SOURCES:
28 a/ Report P-4676-CO, Recommendation to the Executive Directors
29    November 1987 (Attachment 2)
30
31 b/ 10 preappraisal estimate - Completion loan for GUAVIO - Perfil III (CO-215a)
32
33                     03-Feb-94
34 File: 2889\report\AN5-tb52.wkl



Page I of 3
TABLE 5.3: ICEL ACTION PLAN
REPORTED
ENTITY            COMPUANCE
POLICY AREA                  OBJECTIVE                   ACTIONS                      DATES                  RESPONSEBLE              YEStNO                    COMMENTS
A. Institutional            Define long-term policy    Prepare baaic document     December 31, 19S7           MME, Deparamentos              Yec         Study completed but lack of regional
and institutional setting of    defining Govwemment                                                                           consenwuc prevented Govermnrent
the ICEL group             objectives for the ICEL                                                                            formal definition of LT policies.
group
hnprove mat gemet          Prepare managenent         Ready October 31, 19SS      ICEL and                       Yes          Studies were carried out but key
performance                imnproventent action plan,    (elect.) and February 21,  Electrificadoras,                         performance targets were not met.
including:                 19S9 (ICEL)                consultants monitoring                      ICEL study scnt to Bank in Ian/90.
* perfomnance                                         by DNP, MME
indicators (aee note
belcow)
* infornstion systcms
B. Financial                Inprove financial situation    a) review block tariffs  Yearly, in Jauaery        DNPIISA/ICEL                   Yes
through rate incremaae uad    between ISA, ICEL and                               ELECTRIFICADORAS
restructuring              electrificadoms.
b) tudy and aply ocial    Strt Dec. 1, 19S7                                           Yea
stratification criteria in  End Dec. 30, 19U          Ekctrificadoasa
mnin cities.
c) check tatff kvels       Every year (June)          JNT, DNP                       Yes
compared with Rcs. 0S6
and LRMC kvels.
Recover accounts           a) from private ector:     Start Feb. 1, 1918          ICEUElectjificadorms           Yes
receivable to improve
financial situation        0 Publicity campaign
* Increase crews for       Start Dec. 1, 19S7         Electificadoras                Yes
disconnecting delayed
consumwers
* Discontinue special      Start Dec. 1, 19S7         ICEUElectrificadoras           Yes
rates (pumping) to
delayed consumers
* Tentative joint billing  Start Dec. I, 1917        ICELJElectrificadoras           Yec          Where feasible
for pouwcr tnd telephone
consuners in selected
area"
b) from public ecCtOt:
* through combined         Started in Sept. 1987.     MME/MHCP                       Yes          Ameara at Dec./t6 were settled but
action of MHCP,            New *cnt,um when           I k- II #,.              *.urmrn arrears continued to
Departamentls and          ne,casery                  I ,. .'=,. . st                            *s,un ltaet
Muna.,:p"" it g                                       %t
ReItu-lu, W3 t241



Page 2 of 3
TABLE 5.3: ICEL. ACI1ON PLAN
ENThrY             COMPIJANCE
POLUcY AREA                  O                             ACK1OtIS                     DAMES                  RUSPONSIBL:                YEslNO            -MEN13
Se,curc mure  for rw        a) cere RBWl                Start Feb. 1, 19M           StS  (Dep namen(o               Ye
invcamcus                   Elecuiagilo StsNy                                        tgaialors)
b) capkarb                 Depends a bic               Depa      _o,                    Yes         SPN fepors do not D  w   "eciSc da
ue.seijadoress Soqgh       document. Sea A abore.        -ci- (ICEL)                                to estimate Cosyomapa.
Improve raw. basn           c) iacorpoee asst buik    Star Jan. . 191               ICEL/lectuificadoras            Yes
by nsew rubcribe  as
piuvde per Dec. 2545.
C. Eectric L1aws Coedml   Reduce thef and tchnical    a) incease inflahtion of    Start Jan. 1, 191             Electificadoas                   Yes
losse                       meters n seiected aras
b) discontinue the         Start Jan. 1, 1987          Electriucadoras                  Yes
*esimoted biliang ayim
c) gBMW   efficiency in    Stott Jan. 1, 19            Electrificadoi                   Yes
appyitg saiom for
frmAuleti eomcAioi s                                                                                                                         Co
d) legliz etimivq          Saft Jsn. 1, 191            Elecr       a                    Yes
cou.ewtioaa in low
a) iscra pesdoe to         St Js. 1, 19"               Eleeil_cadom                     Yer
asnibeg tanA reduction
and desectioa of
I) inylmeti rdedcdau       Racduc, loane waccdims to   Elecinicadosas                   yea
_ _ _ _ _ _ Plogr        I eaofblided yeady targets
0
O tn
Ue



Page 3 of 3
TABLE 5.3: ICEL ACMION PLAN
-NTrY             COMMUCE
POLICY AEA                    BJE VE                     ACIONS                      DATES          l       E!PONSIBLE              YES/NO                   COMMEN7S
D. InveImcnt Poicy         Ratiosmlizatis of          Review annually ICEL's     Sauit Jan. 1, 19SS, vith   ICEL, MME, DNP                 Ye
iaveitmedu                 invesmAct progrm for      anual revisioo of the      Electrikicadoras
the next four years.     iurememt program.
E. Other                   FreeA adinidraliv          No peronne admniiom        From 1931 to 1990          ICELElectifcadotas.            No          According lo 'CosrAct Plan' ageed
expe_a in raw lerem        for the group as a whole                             Monitored by                                with FEN, tarses were not nat.
oei adio                                             MME/DNP.                                   Personnel increaewd by 1,454 (Il%).
Impng,rate base            Exam  criteria for th     san ia. 1, I 98            ICEL, Coaslants                Yeu
re_ouatio of fixed                                   Ekctrificads
and iaveniorie
Electricity aving          Publicity campaign for    Stait Jan. 19U             ICEUElectrificadors            Yea          Performance tarssc wemt only
aving pouer                                                                                     partialy met.
Now; The Pcrfomnee iodicaor for be WM sW aI  s folbwing: (aD takn
from 'Pnogma dc Recuperuo. F_ianciers, dc ItR hn         Finl, M. Rsmie
Gomw4 ftog, Ago   1917)                                                          ( -Note; TMe  nioring sysem of energy loes and acaounts receivble becamc scd4fctomy In April 1989. The
onitoring of tariffs by he JNT vsI also astialctory but that of accounts pssbk and finsacial performance weor
Tamr                   Cuadr 2.3.2 pae40 :o(.j
E6gy  _ n.             Custodo 2,3.3 p  42
Accauts receible       Ctadto 23.4 pa  46
Aots payb            Cuadro 234 and 23.6g 45 iwd 49
Fincbal i_tox cn    CuWro 2.5.1 pWge 122-125
Tbe cioica   VlW be revieweder lb. rvesoip of the 19t7-9O  c:._-
IlvstmenPn,g          -.-       '               .....,  
Faik ANS-Th53
0
tO
I.)
O w



Page I of 4
TABLE 5.4: CORELCA - ACTION PLAN
REPORTED
ENTTTY RESPONSfBLE          COMPLIANCE
POUCY AREA                     ORJECTIVE                     ACTIONS                       DATES                                                 YES/NO                  COMMENTS
A   lnslitutional            Define long-term policy       Prepare basic document      December 31. 1987            MME                                 Yes          Studies completed but lack of
and institutional seling for    defining Govemmeni and                                                                                 regional consensus prevented
the Atlantic coast           regional objectives for                                                                                   Govemment formal definition of
electrificalion              CORELCA and its                                                                                           LT policies.
clectriticadoras
Improve nanagement           Prepare management           Ready October 31. 19118     CORELCA and                         Yes          Studies were ca rried out but key
performance                  improvement action plan,    (elect.) and February 2t.     Electrificadorasl                               performance targets were not met.
including:                  1989 (CORELCA)               consultanis  Monitoring by                       CORELCA study sent to Bank in
* performance                                            DNP. MME                                         Jan/90.
indicators* (see note
beiow)                                                                                                                                           3o
* information systems                                                                                                                            0
B. Financial                 Imnprive financial situation    a) review block tariffs   Yearly in June               INT/ISA/CORELCA                     Yes
through rate increases and   between ISA, CORELCA                                      ELECTRIFICADORAS
restfucturing                and clectrificadoras.
b) study and apply ocial    Start Dec. 1, 1987           Electrificadoras                    Yes
stratification criteria in  End Dec. 30, 1988
main cities.
c) check tariff levels      Every year (June)            JNT, DNP                            Yes
compared witb Res. 0U6
and LRMC levels.
Po
H,a
X
N
O tn



Page 2 of 4
TABLE 5.4: CORELCA - ACTION PLAN
REPORTED
ENTrlrY RESPONSIBLE         COMPLUNCE
POLICY AREA                  OBJECTVE                     ACTIONS                      DATES                                               YES/NO                  COMMENTS
Recover ccounts             a) rorm private sector:    Stan Feb. 1, 198S           CORELCA/Electrificadorac           Yes
receivable to inprove
financial itutfion          0 Publicity campaign
*  Increase crews for      Stan Dec. 1. 1987           Electrificadoras                   Yes
disconnecting delayed
consumers
*  Discodinue pecial       Stan Dec. 1. 1987           CORELCA/Eiectrificadoras           Yes
ratee (pumping) to
delayed consumers
* Tentaive joint billing   Stan Dec. I  1987          CORELCA/Electnlicadousr           Yes          Where applicabk
for power and tekphone                                                                                                                       Go
consumers in selcted
areas
b) from public sector:
* through comnbined        Staned in Sept. 1987.       MME/MHCP                         Prian         Armarn at Dec./36 were setted
action of MHCP,            New actions when             lectrificadors                                but current arfears continued to
Depananentos and           necessary                   Depanamentos and                               accurubate
Municipios (e.g.,                                      Municipios
Resolution 03324)
Secure resources for new    a) create Rural            Stan Feb. 1, 198S           State (Depanumentos                Yes
inveitnernt                 Electrification Stamp                                  legislators)
b) capitalize              Depends on basic            Depanamentos, nunicipios
elctrificadores through    document. See A above.    (CORELCA)
depaanmentos ans
nunicipalities
Improve ate baae            c) incorpornte asuets built    Stan Jan. 1, 1988       CORELCA/Electrificadora            Yea
by new subscribers as
provided per Dec. 2545.                                                                                                   __
out



Page 3 of 4
TABLE 5.4: CORELCA - ACTION PLAN
ENTITY RESPONSIBLE   CObMPIPAC
POUCY AREA                   OBECllVE                      ACTIONS                      DATES                                              YESMNO                  COMMEN7S
C. Electrkc LoAes Conrl   Reduce the  sd tea hnical    a) iumcee iallwtmon of    Stan Oct. I 1987               Ekhieficadoras
lbssec                      eterst in elected areas
b) dicodtinue the          Stan Oct 1, 1987            Electrificadoras                   Yee
estiwAled billing sysetm
..) greater efficiency in  Stan Jan. 1. 1988           Electrificadoras
applying sanctions for
fraudulkn connections
d) legalize existing       Stan Jan. 1. 19U            Electrificadtiras                  Yea
cwoectiona in low
incae *reas
e) increase penonnel to    Start Oct. 1, 19S1          Electrireadoras                    Yea
monitor theft reduction
and detection of
fraudukn mneters
f) in nktent loss          Reduce losses ccording to    Electrificadorss                 Yes
reduction progam           established yeady targets
g) iniplementationof       January 19S8                Ekectnficadurs
public trtaaoners' for
low income constuners in
sceleted areas
D. Investmndt Pdlicy        Rationalization of           Review annually the        Yeady in January            CORELCA, DNP, MME                  Yea
investmeai                  Cot Adtsteica
invesIment program kwr
the next four years.
PC%)
0 i
maP
tU
xsu



Page 4 of 4
TABLE 5.4: CORELCA - ACrION PLAN
-              ENTrrK Y REPONSIBLE        COMPLANes
POUJCY AR:A                                             ACiIMIO A2f..NS                                                                YFS.NDAO: -                      II
r. Other                   Elimiase prce didoctio     Ratio.elize fid subsidy    Define plan for           MME
(gas) to CORELCA           inpliemnatioo in Msrch
_                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ss
Coayly with loan 1999-CO   Inpl_awiEt rvalado of    Stan Nov. 1, 19t7            CORELCA, Cona                     Yea
lxed astrs ad             End Dec. 31, 19U           Electrificadocas
inventories
Electricity aivug          Pubficity canpaign for     Sti Jan. 19u               CORELCA/Electihcadoms             yes         Perfonmae targets wPr only
aaving P-er                                                                                        partially mat.
co"aiupon 
Note Th.X                              .        .     w        ;;       i :Baana:0:  i0.do:m:ac 1.dceie0o Iani: CO.LC   pom  .t-: Ibon i  0 Ua
i'PI4snde Rseuperacima Phacieea del Sigama cO;0012 Pase II (Metasy               (Noe The uu.Jtaring aseo ot*aer-y losses sad acounuis receivable   rm hiactory in Apnil 1989. Te               co
~o.mpdnc~an.MOMq  No. 2.9' 112.151 MIA40 ~21. Thee040**w    b                  o*tq(ad.yu.INwsaacaiacoWMy bu th5tof acqtxzps pybl and fijuncias p rfotianc. were
reviewed tSar the r vi   of she 1937-90 Seotogof Jaawy Wm ed                           w     aso s  nitap
File ANS-1BS4
Pu
.
OIJi



84                                                         ANNEX 5
1 TABLE 5.5                                                                                               Page 16  of 20
2 Reults of the Etectricity Loss Reduction Program
3 Energy Lost/Energy generated (%)
4
5
6 OriginaL Targets  1/    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990            1987-1990
7-
8      E E B                24.7   24.6   21.0   18.0   16.0               -8.7
9      E P M                21.2   21.2   21.2   20.6   20.1               -1.1
10      C V C                 17.7   17.7   17.7   17.4   17.0              -0.7
11     I C E L               24.0   24.0   24.0   23.3   22.7               -1.3
12   C O R E L C A           23.1   23.1   23.1   22.6   22.1               -1.0
13       1 S A                 1.7    1.6    1.7    1.7    1.7               0.0
14
15   TOTAL SYSTEM            23.9   23.8   23.0   21.9   21.1               -2.8
16
17 Amended Targets
18      - --------
19      E E B                                24.8   22.0   19.0             -5.7
20      E P M                                20.2   18.5   18.0             -3.2
21       C V C                               20.8   19.0   18.5              0.8
22      I C E L                              24.2   22.7   21.5             -2.5
23   C 0 R E L C A                           23.6   22.0   20.6             -2.5
24       I S A                                1.7    1.7    1.7              0.0
25
26   TOTAL SYSTEM                            24.4   22.7   21.3             -2.6
27
28
29 Actual Losses 2/
30 ------
31       E E B                24.7   26.0   24.8   22.3   22.8              -1.9
32       E P M                21.6   19.1   20.2   19.6   18.5              -3.1
33       c V C                17.6   19.2   20.8   21.0   19.3               1.7
34      1 C E L               25.2   25.2   24.2   21.8   20.3              -4.9
35   C O R E L C A            22.9   23.7   23.6   22.3   20.5              -2.4
36       1 S A                 1.7    1.6    1.7    1.7    1.7               0.0
37
38   TOTAL SYSTEM             23.8   24.0   24.4   23.0   21.7              -2.1
39
40
41 CompLiance with originaL targets 3/
42           -----
43       E E 8                       94.6%  84.7%  80.7%  70.2%
44       E P N                      111.0% 105.0% 105.1% 108.6%
45       C V C                       92.2%  85.1%  82.9%  88.1%
46      1 C E L                      95.2%  99.2% 106.9% 111.8%
47   C 0 R E L C A                   97.5%  97.9% 101.3% 107.8%
48       1 S A                      100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
'9
50   TOTAL SYSTEM                    99.2%  94.3%  95.2%  97.2%
51
52
53 Comptiance with amended targets 2/
54         ---
55       E E B                              100.0%  98.7%  83.3%
56       E P M                              100.0%  94.4%  97.3%
57       C V C                              100.0%  90.5%  95.9%
58      I C E L                             100.0% 104.1% 105.9%
59   C 0 R E L C A                          100.0%  98.7% 100.5%
60       I S A                              100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
61
62   TOTAL SYSTEM                           100.0%  98.7%  98.2%
63
64
65 1/   Report P-4676-CO, Recoemendation to the Executive Directors,
66       November 1987. (Attachment 3)
67
68 2/   Progress report, Superior CounciL of the Power Sector (SCPS)
69
70 3/   Relation between Targets and ActuaL Losses.
71
72         26-Jan-94
73
74 FfLe:ANX5TBL3.WK1



I    IfLJ   -vn---           UUN3W    *-.--            1VNIDI?1O_
066T laqTuoa(l - 886T  ,-q-uIaoa
a                   l  l  l  l  l f      l  l IN a  f  a     l  l  l  l  l  l  -IZxa    
' . ...... '... '. '' '  ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .....'.' . .. . .' ' ' ' .. .. .. .. .  .. . . .. . . .  .... ...  .. . . .  .. . . . .
.......... - _.-.5.Z
...................................  ........ ............  .........  .....   ........ .-t
SHSSOrl ADUHNH rivi1 INHISAS
OZ 3 LT s6ed
S XSNNV                                               SR



86                           ANNEX 5
Page 18 of 20
Graph 5.2
EEB'S ENERGY LOSSES
25 - 
24-
23
22
21i 
20
1 9
18
17
D23    MAMJ        0    N D J_ F M                       
December 1988 - December 1990
ORIGINAL -AMENDED               ACTUAL



87                                                            ANNEX  5
Page 19 of 20
Graph 5.3
EPM'S ENERGY LOSSES
D215                               S -ORINAL  |AME --                        AM  NAL
2 1                                                        .. .   ...    ..   -   . . .   .   . . . . . . .. .  . .. '
2 0 .5  -                                                           .    ......  .........   ..-
2 0  -                          .                           ....  ....  ............    .......... .....  .   . . . ........  ...........
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 5                 .  .....   -.'    ......               .........  - ...  .
D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D
December 1988 - December 1990
Graph 5.4
CVC's ENERGY LOSSES
24
2 1 ,   ...    ..   ...   ......    ..    .   . ..    _._._.   .. ...  ....   ....... .. . ....... . . . . . . ..  ....
1 8 - - I .     . . .  ....                                 . ..   ..   . ..    ..I .. .
17
D J F             M A M J J A S 0 N D J FMA M                                 J  A S ND
December 1988 - December 1990



88                                     ANNEX 5
Page 20 of 20
Graph 5.5
CORELCAts GROUP ENERGY LOSSES
7V.
24
23                                             . =
22                                             ...    ....  ..    ...  .
21  ... .   .   . _ .   .    .. ........__.__
|_ ORIGNAL  - AMENDED  -) ACTUALA
D J F M A M  J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N
December 1988 - December 1990
Graph 5.6
ICEL's GROUP ENERGY LOSSES
7.
D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D
December 1988 - December 1990



