Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LMa/ ;x9mio
Report No. P-4676-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Novenmber 10, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                       Colombian Peso Col$
Col$                                                 100 Centavos (ctv)
Col$241.39                                          US$1.00 (June 30, 1987)
Col$1,000                                           US$4.14 (June 30, 1987)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES (Col$LUS$)
1982       1983        1984        1985        1986        1987 (June)
64.1        78.9       100.8       142.3       194.3       241.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 1/
meter (m)                          =           3.281 feet (ft)
square kilometer (km2)             =           0.386 square mile (mi2)
hectare (ha)                       =           0.01 square kilometer (km2)
cubic meter (m3)                   =           35.315 cubic feet
barrel (bbl)                                   0.159 cubic meter
kilogram (kg)                      =           2.206 pounds (lb)
ton (t)                            =           1,000 kilogram
kilowat (kW)                       =           1,000 watt (W)
Joule (J)                                       1 Watt.second = 1 Newton.meter
Joule (J)                          =           2.3B8x10-4 kcal=9.478xlO4 Btu
ton oil equ-ivalent (toe)          =           42.2x109 J
kilowatt-hour (kWh)                =           3.6.106 j
kilovolt (kV)                      =           1,000 Volt (V)
kilovolt ampere (kVA)              -           1,000 Volt ampere (103 VA)
Hertz (Hz)                         =           1 cycle per second
1/ The SI (Systeme International) and its multiples are used whenevez
possible in this report.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
k (kilo)                                103 (thousand)
M (Mega)                                106 (million)
G (Giga)                                109 (billion)
T (Tera)                                1012 (trillion)
P (Peta)                                1015 (quadrillion)
E (Exa)                                 1018 (quintillion)
CHB                                Central Hidroelectrica de Betania
CONPES                        =    Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y
Social
CORELCA                       =    Corporacion Electrica de la Costa
Atlantica
CVC                           =    Corporacion Auttonoma Regional del Cauca
DNP                           -    Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
ECOPETROL                    =    Empresa Colombiana de Petroleon
EEEB                         =    Empresa de Energia Electrica de Fogota
EMCALI                       =    Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM                           -    Empresas Pablicas de Medellin
FEN                                Financiera Electrica Nacional
FONADI                        -    Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
ICEL                         -    Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB                          =    I rer-American Development Bank
ISA                          =    Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT                          =    Junta Nacional de Tarifas (National
Tariff Board)
KfW                           =    Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MME                           =    Ministerio de Minas y Energia
MHCP                          -    Ministerio de Hacienda y Cridito Pablico
UNDP                               United Nations Development Program
ESMAP                        =    Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program
IRR                          =    Internal Rate of Return
LRMC                               Long Run Marginal Cost
TAP                           =    Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan
FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b,' re;:liierionly in the performance
of their offAcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosid wft. <,ut World Bank authorization.



t~~~tl



COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I - THE ECONOMY .     ................... * * *                   1
A.  Background .          ... ............. 9.*#.....*                  1
B.  Recent Economic Developments    .......................            2
C.  The Medium-Term Adjustment Program 1987-90 ............            4
D. Major Development Issues          ................                  5
(a)  Public Sector Efficiency              ...............        5
(b)  External Resource Mobilization .......      ................. ~- 8
E.  Relations with the IMF  ......     .     ...........               9
F. Assessment too ...........                 .       ..........    9
PART II.  THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR ............       9
A.  Energy Sector Profile .......................... . ......**        9
Resource Base and Consumption                       .      ...    10
Strategic Issues for the Energy Sector              ..    11
B.  The Power Subsector ..      .      ......................         12
Organization and Institutions.                     .       ..     12
Power Demand ..... .........             ..     ..... ......      14
Power Supply ...................i
Electricity Losses              .............................    16
Sector Planning .......*............                              16
Sector Finances ................17
The Finances of the Main Utilities .                              18
Electricity Pricing ....       ... * ..... ...... ......    19
Environmental Aspects .       ... .. ... ........... *.    20
Social Aspects .................                          .       21
C.  Bank Support for the Power Sector .......                         21
PART III.  THE POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM       ......     ..   22
A.  The Policy Frame and Government Objectives  ............          22
Investment Policies .. ...... to*.....                            23
Institutional Framework                 ....... ...........   23
Improved Efficiency ............. ...........    23
B.  The Program    . ... . ..........                . ............ t  24



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Pate
Investment Policies         ............................................   24
The 1987-1990 Investment Program ......     .........................   25
Investment Program 1991-2000 .......     ............................   26
Guavio Project       .................................................    26
Inistitutional Framework ........    ................................   27
Utility Manage,ment       .............................................    27
Electricity Losses .       ............................................    28
Ecological and Social Aspects .......      ...........................    28
Financial Adjustment Program .......      ............................   29
Pricing Adjustment Program ..........................., 32
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN ...........................   33
Background and Justification for 3ank's Involvement      ...    33
Disbursement       ...................................................    34
Procurement                     ............ 34
Monitoring and Reporting ........      ..............................   34
Accounting and Auditing ........      ................. *  ..............   34
Program Benefits ..............                                  0  34
Risks .........................................................    35
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA .....................   36
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ................... ....................    38
ANNEXES
Annex  1    -    Economic Indicators....                              39
Annex  2    -    Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia          45
Annex  3A   -    Letter from the Minister of Finance and
Public Credit on Fiscal and Monetary Policy        50
Annex  3B   -    Letter from the Minister of Mines and Energy
on Energy Policy.. .53
Annex 4  -  Schedule of Actions               ..81
Annex  5    -    Description of the Investment Program
Components..... . .....                            84
Annex  6    -   Actual and Forecast Income Statement (1984-1992)   87
Annex  7    -    Electricity Tariff Tables.. ..                       91
Annex  8    -    Organization of the Power Sector and
Sector Statistics...........                       93
Annex  9    -    Energy and Peak Demand Balances.                     95
Annex 10    -    Suplementary Loan Data Sheet.                        96
Annex 11    -    Supporting Documentation and Working Papers          99
Map: IBRD 17690 R



(i)
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Colombia
Amount:                    US$300 million equivalent
Terms:                     17 years including 4 years grace, with interest
at the standard variable interest rate.
Description:               The proposed loan would support the continuation
of the Government's reform program in the power
sector. The principal objectives of the program
are to improve the efficiency of power
generation, transmission and distribution.
Government policies are designed to: rationalize
investments, bring electricity pricing in line
with l.-ng-run marginal costs, finance a larger
share of future investments from sector cash
generation and thereby reduce pressure on other
public sector investments, and improve the
regulatory framework and utility management. The
loan would support measures to achieve these
objectives and assist in restructuring the
finances of the sector. The proposed loan forms
part of the package to help financing the total
external financing needs of Colombia for 1987-90.
Berefits and Risks:        Implementation of the Government's power sector
adjustment program would result in several
significant benefits to the economy. It would
reduce both recurrent and capital public
expenditures through improved efficiency in
management, planning, tariff setting and
investment decision making. The main risks
relate to the uncertainties regarding the level
and timing of securing - .her sources of
financing, to the volatility of demand forecasts
and their impact on investment, to the
Government's ability to maintain the pace of
price adjustments necessary for implementing the
pricing policies and to possible regional
resistance to the concentration of
responsibilities on central agencies in the
sector. Thn sector adjustment program contains a
series of measures designed to reduce these risks
to an acceptable level.
Estimated
Disbursements:             Full disbursement of the loan would take place
over an estimated fifteen-month period. The loan
would be in direct support of the policy reform



(ii)
progr# and would be disbursed for general
imports (subject to a negative list) in three
trenches - $150 million at effectiveness and $75
million each by June-August/88 and by'
December/88-Februaryl89.
Staff Appraisal Reports  Not applicable
IBRD 17690 R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMEFT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$300 million to
support the Government's program of reforms in the power sector. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Colombia in June 1986 and its report
(4444-CO) will be cistributed to the Executive Directors shortly. A
mission to review progress made in the implementation of t.ie Trade and
Agricultural Policy (TAP) Loan (Loan 2677-CO, approved in March 1986)
visited Colombia during March 1987, and its report was distributed to the
Executive Directors on July 1, 1987 (Sec M87-780), recommending the second
tranche release. A review of macroeconomic developments was provided in
the Country Brief circulated in September 1987. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.       Colombia's development programs are founded on a rich base of
human and natural resources. The population, estimated at 28.4 million at
mid-1985, occupies an area of just over a million square kilometers, of
which nearly one-quarter is considered arable. Population density is
relatively low (26 persons per sq km); two-thirds of the population now
lives in urban areas. Population growth of 1.9% per year has facilitated
substantial improvemer.t in social conditions. Life expectancy at birth now
stands at 64 years compared with 50 years in 1970, due partly to declining
infant mortality and improved nutrition; primary school enrollment was over
80% in 1985 and the literacy rate about 80%. Nonetheless, poverty remains
a critical problem. Some 25% of the population is below minimum nutrient
intake levels, more than a third lacks access to safe water, and child
mortality remains high.  Unemployment is high, especially in the cities.
Further, household data, albeit limited, suggests an uneven distribution of
incomes, with incomes of the top 20% of households 13-14 times those of the
bottom 20%.  Disparities in the quality of life among regions are very
significant and contribute to strong regional pressures in many spheres of
activity. In the disadvantaged areas, guerrilla activity and narcotics
related crime have become a threat to security, discouraging investment.
4.       Natural resources are plentiful.  In addition to  relatively
abundant land in the mountainous parts ideally suited for coffee, there is



- 2 -
abundant water for irrigation. There is vast untapped hydroelectric energy
potential and other energy resources include rich coal, oil and natural gas
reserves. Mineral resources such as nickel, gold, and emeralds are also
substantial. Colombia has a significant locstional advantage because it is
close to North America with coasts on both the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.
Mountainous terrain, however, makes internal transportation costly and
slowrs down physical and social integration.
5.       Rich physical resources, the literate and dependable workforce,  a
robust private sector, competent national econcmic management, and
political stability are major factors explaining %olombia's good record of
GDP growth and social improvements over the last 30 years. However, heavy
dependence on coffee and its large price variations in international
markets have produced problems of short-term fluctuations in the e;onomv
and required frequent intervention to stabilize aggregate demand. Longer
term economic challenges are therefore to reduce the relative dependence on
coffee by developing other exports, to increase the rate of GDP growth and
job creation, and to improve income distribution by reducing the incidence
of absolute poverty. The Barco administration which came to office in 1986
sees the reduction of poverty, especially in remote areas with only tenuous
links to the formal economy, as critical. It gives highest priority to
achieving better delivery of social services to marginal areas with a
particular focus on the decentralization of planning and program
implementation.
B. Recent Economic Developments
6.       Economic performance over the past 20 years has been influenced
above all by world coffee price cycles and by the orientation of production
and trade policies. Four main periods can be distinguished: 1967-75, 1975-
80, 1980-83, and after 1983. The 1967-75 period was marked by a shift away
from import substitution toward export promotion, backed by a relatively
transparent, uniform structure of incentives, modest trade liberalization,
a crawling peg exchange rate reg4me, fiscal discipline, and sound public
sector investment policies. GDP growth averaged 6.3% p.a. with growth in
consumption per capita reaching 4.3% p.a. During 1975-80, GDP growth was
only slightly lower, averaging 5.5%. However, when the coffee boom began
in the mid 1970s, macroeconomic management faltered. Government
consumption accelerated in the mid 1970s in response to sharply increasing
revenues; public sector investment surged while private investment activity
declined. Money supply was allowed to g-ow more rapidly than before, and
the inflation rate rose to almost 25%. Real exchange rate appreciated and
the growth of non-traditional exports, particularly manufactured goods,
slowed considerably.
7.       There was a sharp reversal of economic performance after the
coffee boom subsided in the early 1980s. Between 1980 and 1983, average
GCP growth slowed to 1.6% p.a. and per capita consumption stalled.
Exports, particularly manufactured goods, declined as a result of a loss in
competitiveness associated with appreciation in the real exchange rate from
83.5 to 73.6 (base 1975 = 100) and the fall in international demand. The
current account turned from a slight surplus to a deficit of 6.5% of GDP.
In an effort to maintain aggregate demand, public sector expenditures were



- 3 -
increased, and the public sector deficit increMsed from less than 1% to
over 7% of GDP. Thus che debt crisis of the early 1980s caught Colombia at
a moment when its investment program reached peak levels. Total foreign
financing, especially from commercial banks, fell short of needs and
capital flight accentuated the problem. International reserves fell by
some US$4 billion during 1982/84 to a level of US$1.8 billion at end 198'4
equivalent to less than four months of imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.       Responding to the economic crisis, the Government initiated in
late 1984 a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment program, which was
sustained and elaborated through 1986. Stabilization policies included tax
incr ases, public sector price increases, expenditure restraints, and
restrictive monetary and credit policies. Growth was to be fostered
through deva'uation, removal of restrictions on exports. and reorientation
of the publi investment program toward export-oriented activities, notably
petroleum and coal, and essential infrastructure. The trade regime was to
be liberalized by decreasing the use of import licenses and by phased
replacement of quantitative restrictions by tariffs. The 1984 program
helped develop a consensus among Colombia's major creditors. Based on the
policy understandings betueen the Government, the Bank, and the IMF,
external commercial banks agreed to restore trade lines and to commit a
US$1 billion jumbo loan; the IMF agreed to a sui generis monitoring
arrangement, and the Bank, in the context of two policy-based loans, the
Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan (Loan 2551-C0) and the TAP
Loa., (Loan 2677-CO), undertook to assess medium-term performance,
particularly in the context of trade reform and the investment and
borrowing programs.
9.       All the major stabilization objectives of the Colombian rrogram
for 1984-86 were achieved. The current account balance improved from a
deficit of 5.4% of GDP in 1984 to a surplus of 1.6% of GDP in 1986, aided
by a new coffee boom. As a result of revenue and expenditure measures, the
overall public sector deficit fell from 7% of GDP to about 4Z in 1985 and
was almost elimn:ated in 1986 because of high coffee revenues.  The growth
in domestic credit to the public sector was within target. Inflation
remained at 21% during 1986. The target for the real exchange rate was
exceeded, with the December 1986 index at 112 compared with 74 in 1983.
Efforts on expenditure restraint were quite successful, notably in the
areas of gross domestic investment and government consumption; there were
also cutbacks in imports of goods and non-factor services. Gross national
savings rose sharply, partly reflecting the successful sterilization of the
1986 coffee windfall.
10.      Developments in early 1987 have highlighted the important medium-
term challenges that remain and the high sensitivity of the balance of
payments and Government income to commodity prices. Coffee prices fell
below US$1.10 after the suspension of International Coffee Organization
(ICO) quota negotiations. Coal prices also continued to slide, following a
decline in 1986. The resulting drop in export earnings was only partially
offset by an almost doubling of petroleum export earnings owing to the
completion of the Canio Lim6n oil field development. After impressive
increases in 1986, foreign exchange reserves have declined by US$221
million in the first quarter but have partially regained their previous
level since. The public sector deficit is expected to rise to 3% of GDP in



- 4 -
1987, but would be narrowed down over coming years.
C. The Medium-Term Adiustment Frogram 1987-90
11.      The Government has, in recent months, defined a medium-term
program for 1987-90 aimed to consolidate its adjustment progress and to
ensure sustained growth at about 4% p.a. The stabilization program
initiated in 1984 will be continued and the loss in international reserves
resulting from the 1987 fa3l in coffee prices contained. As in 1984-86, a
successful stabilization program will entail application of fiscal and
monetary policies within a consistent macroeconomic framework. The public
sector deficit is to be reduced to about 2% of GDP by 1990, and public
sector gross fixed investment from a projected 7.5% of GDP in 1987 (already
below the 1985 level) to 6.7% of GDP in 1990. This will allow an increase
in private sector investment during this period. The program envisages
growth in the monetary base of about 25% p.a. or just equal to the growth
of nominal GDP, and implies no increase in the rate of inflation from the
21% achieved in 1986. Colombia is continuing its exchange rate policy
aimed at keeping the real rate competitive and consistent with the
objective of restricting the current account deficit of the balance of
payments to 2% of GDP for the period 1987-90. Building on the successful
real exchange rate adjustment, the program also seeks to achieve: (a) a
further opening up of the economy through additional import liberalization
and an expanded foreign exchange budget; (b) gradual shift away from
quan4itative restrictions and towards tariffs as the major instrument of
protection; (c) rationalization of import policies to improve resource
allocation and export competitiveness; and (d) more automatic access to
import licenses, and a more uniform structure of tariffs and export
incentives.
12.      Implementation of the program has entailed the enactment in 1986
of two laws, one for tax reform and the other for increased Government
decentralization. The tax reform together with tighter control of current
expenditures increased the Government revenues by 2 percentage points of
GNP and reduced the overall budget deficit while providing greater
incentive for private investments. The decentralization program provides
for the election of mayors and a gradual transfer of responsibilities and
financial resources to the municipalities. Following negotiations with
Andean Pact countries the Government has introduced a bill to open up the
economy for more foreign direct investment. The Government is also
considering important financial sector reforms and is moving towards a more
flexible and market-oriented interest rate structure.   On trade policy,
significant advances are being made, including increases in the foreign
exchange budget for reimbursable imports. The share of imports not subject
to quantitative restrictions in total imports rose from 55% in 1985 to an
estimated 69% in 1986, and is to be increased further in 1987. Further
measures to liberalize the trade regime are planned.
13.      The macroeconomic and public expenditure program appears to be
sustainable. Even if external financing or export earnings were lower than
projected, macroeconomic balance could be maintained by making moderate
cuts in public investment, for which a margin is left in the program.
However, if public investment were significantly higher than projected,
excessive amounts of external finance and/or crowding out of the private



- 5 -
sector would result. The strengthening of budget mechanisms to implement
planning decisions thus merits high priority. The Government's medium-term
program represents an effective response to the major development issues
facing Colombia; specific priority areas for action are outlined in the
following section, with emphasis on issues directly relevant for the power
sector.
D. Major Development Issues
(a) Public Sector Efficiency
14.      The Government is focusing sharply on strengthening public sector
institutions both to provide better services and to help reduce public
expenditures. The public sector accounts for some 47% of Colombia's total
investment spendirg, yet public sector management has important weaknesses;
causes include frequert change-over of management, weak accountability for
producing tangible development results, complicated and slow budget and
procurement processes, weak linkages between planning, budgeting, and
evaluation, and heavy reliance on legal controls which tends to impair
institutions' ability to respond to changing circumstances. The Government
has launched several efforts designed to improve management of the core
government functions of planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation.
Central challenges are reorientation of the public sector expenditure
program, resource mobilization (domestic and international), including
tariff increases for public services, and improvement of efficiency in
p.iblic sector institutions (centralized and decentralized).
(i) Public Sector Expenditures
15.     TMe public expenditure program in Colombia is at a major turning
point. The Government's priorities have shifted from a focus on
infrastructure development towards social concerns; at the same time, the
Government recognizes the need to restrain the level of total public
investment. This change in direction takes place in the context of the
successful adjustment efforts of the last two years, which have gone far
towards correcting the severe fiscal and external imbalances of the early
1980s; nonetheless, important challenges remain. The Bank has worked
closely with the Government in helping it to define a public sector
investment program which supports the medium-term program. The investment
program for 1987-90, averaging US$2.7 billion annually, was approved by the
National Economic Policy Council (CONPES) in July 1987. It maintains
consistency between macroeconomic and sectoral objectives. The agreed
public expenditure program will entail both cuts overall and specific
reductions in investment for the energy-related sectors of electric power,
petroleum, and coal, while expenditure on social programs will increase.
16.      In the power sector, sharp reductions in the investment program
through 1990 are envisaged (paras. 88 and 89). From a peak of US$1 billion
p.a. in 1982-84, when it made up 35% of the investment program, power
sector investment will decline to an average of US$516 million over 1987-
90, reducing its share to 19% of the total program. The program includes
completion of ongoing generating plants as well as high-priority
transmission and distribution projects, and advances in rural



- 6 -
electrification which support social objectives. While overall levels of
investment spending have been relatively easy to establish, changes to
power sector allocations are difficult to implement, as commitments to
spending are made about seven years before project completion. Possible
changes in project scope and cost overruns (for example on the Guavio hydro
power project) could pose serious problems as they would require cuts
elsewhere in the program.
17.      Cuts will also be made in the petroleum and coal sectors, wlhere
the completion of the initial large investments in mine and field
development will make possible a reduction from US$572 million in I ,6 to
an average of US$461 million in 1987-90. As a result of reductions of all
three energy-related sectors, the energy share of the investment program
will fall from 53% in 1985 to 36% in 1990. These shifts should be seen in
the context of changing patterns of government spending over the past two
decades. While the social sectors had clear priority in the early 1970s,
around 1978 the pattern changed; the shares of education and health
dropped, while expenditures for energy and highways increased sharply. In
the 1979-85 period, the energy sector absorbed half of all public
investment resources, and the overall increases in public investment levels
were due largely to the energy sector. Even when the Government sought to
shift the balance among sectors and to reduce overall investment levels,
the difficulty in adjusting energy sector investment because of contractual
commitments for projects with long construction periods led to higher
proportional cuts in other sectors.
18.      The increased resources available for social expenditures will go
largely to the transport, water, education and agriculture sectors, as well
as multisectoral programs. The road network in remote areas will be
strengthened and highway management systems improved. Urban transport
projects are being pursued (although the scope and advisability of these
projects need careful evaluation). Investments in drinking water, sewage,
and drainage facilities, and restructuring services in small- and medium-
sized cities are to be increased. Expenditures in education will be
oriented towards greater efficiency of existing schools. In agriculture,
land reform, technical assistance and research, and improved storage and
distribution infrastructure for agricultural products will be the focus.
These expenditures and others will be coordinated under the National
Rehabilitation Plan, which aims to promote development in poorer regions.
Related social expenditures focusing on nutrition and shelter will be
executed under the Anti-Poverty Plan. Investment by local governments with
resources from the new decentralization initiative are also to be oriented
towards social objectives.
19.      Strong fiscal management of the energy sector is vital for
achieving the macroeconomic goals of employment creation and balance-of-
payments stabilization. Since the energy sector is highly capital-
intensive, the shift of public investment towards energy may have
accentuated unemployment problems. A recent Presidential Employment
Mission suggested that a reversal of this shift could be part of an
employment creation strategy. Similarly, energy investments have been
highly import-intensive, and this has led to massive foreign borrowing,
equivalent to 45% of Colombia's public external debt as of December 1986.
The planned reduction in energy sector investments should thus support
balance-of-payments stabilization and the channelling of imports to high



-7-
priority uses. The reduction of energy sector expenditures (power and
coal) is an essential part of Colombia's strategy to limit new external
borrowings.
(ii) Resource Mobilization
20.      Improved resource mobilization is central to the Government's
medium-term strategy. The Government's current policy aims to improve the
financial sector's capacity to mobilize resources by gradually reducing the
burden of low-yielding and illiquid assets in the financial system's
portfolio. Tax reforms and trade policies are also central elements of the
medium term strategy. Issues of economic pricing have immediate importance
for the energy sector. Without effective economic pricing policies,
inappropriate consumption patterns and infrastructure supply networks are
likely, with significant costs to the economy. This means tariff increases
in real terms which in turn will help ensure the financial soundness of the
utilities and may even provide tax revenues to the Government.
21.      Internal generation of funds in the power sector only contributed
20% of total sector investment during 1980-86, even though the sector
serves largely the more economically advanced part of the Colombian
society. This is partly due to the normal lag in revenues arising from
large new investments, but it also reflects inadequate pricing policies.
The desire to satisfy social objectives has led to low electricity tariffs
for some categories of household consumers, which accounts in part for high
residential electricity consumption in Colombia; industry, particularly in
Bogota, on the other hand, has faced high tariffs inconsistent with
stimulating the utilization of abundant electric energy. More broadly, low
admin!stered prices for other energy products, namely gas and petroleum
products, have discouraged development of abundant coal supplies,
particularly on the coast where natural gas instead of the more economic
coal is being consumed in electricity generation. Similarly, petroleum
sector savings have been squeezed by the implicit subsidies to domestic
consumption through the previous differentials between domestic and
international prices, coupled with the long gaps between domestic price
adjustments.
(iii) Public Sector Management
22.      Public sector management presents complex challenges, notably
rigidities in systems for allocating public sector expenditures, including
earmarking, and the weaknesses in the central planning and budgeting
systems. Weak planning systems have resulted in less than optimal sectoral
patterns, since the political clout of individual enterprises or regions at
times outweighs national priorities. Decisions taken by the Central
Economic Council (CONPES) and the Planning Department are inadequately
reflected in the budget process, which tends to be a short-term exercise
with only partial coverage of the consolidated public sector. Further
delays and distortions take place during execution of investment
expenditures, notably because of cumbersome disbursement and contracting
procedures. The Government has focused on three areas where capacity
improvement would help achieve its macroeconomic objectives, namely: (a)
policy formulation to link macroeconomic policies with sectoral objectives
of the new Administration; (b) implementation at the sectoral level in
relation to the resource allocation process; and (c) monitoring and
evaluation of public sector enterprises. The key challenge for Colombia at



- 8 -
this stage is to strengthen institutional mechanisms to ensure that
macroeconomic objectives guide the investment decisions of the
decentralized sector. To improve the performance of public sector
enterprises, more strategic controls and greater reliance on coordination
mechanisms, incentive policies and market forces are needed; gradual
reduction in earmarking is important. For the energy sector, as savings
rise and investments fall, it is essential that the resource surplus so
created be efficiently channeled to the parts of the public sectot where it
is most needed. The compartmentalization resulting from earmark4ng and
institutional rigidities should not be extended further by inflexible
arrangements to distribute energy revenues. A transfer mechanism has now
been approved for channeling the "economic rent" from ECOPETROL, the
petroleum company, to the Government. Specific measures are being
introduced to monitor the 23 largest public sector enterprises that spend
90% of public enterprise investments, as to their compliance with the
macroeconomic targets. Pilot programs have been initiated to test
different approaches to improving performance of public sector enterprises.
(b) External Resource Mobilization
23.      Colombia's external resource mobilization strategy is an essential
element of the medium term program. It has important implications for the
power sector adjustment program because of the high level of power sector
debt and heavy financing needs. The basic strategy is to rely on voluntary
lending. The Government's objective is to maintain debt to commercial
banks at roughly present levels but at the same time to open possibilities
for new lending in the future by broadening access to new financial markets
and using a wider range of financing instruments. However, diversification
of foreign credit should be achieved by expanding borrowing from all
sources, including non-preferred creditors. An immediate challenge is to
secure appropriate new financing arrangements which will allow Colombia to
cope effectively with a heavy bunching of maturities in the 1987-90 period.
Even with a scaled-down investment program, the financing needs of the
power sector during this period are large and the power sector adjustment
program is a response in part to the need for a concerted effort to
mobilize the resources the sector requires during this period.
24.      Colombia's outstanding medium and long term debt amounted to
US$13.7 billion at the end of 1986, of which US$12.1 million was public and
publicly guaranteed. The Government's objective is to keep the current
account deficits on average around US$850 million, equivalent to 2% of 1990
projected GDP. Given the maturity profile of Colombia's external debt, and
the likely path of foreign investment, MLT disbursements would need to
total about US$4 billion in 1987-88, rising to US$2.5 billion p.a. in 1990.
Under this scenario, total debt as a percent of GDP is expected to decline
from 43% in 1987 to 29% in 1995. Because of the bunching of maturities,
debt service would rise temporarily from 30% of exports (goods and nfs) in
1986 to 41% in 1989 and then fall cff to 28% in 1995. At the peak in 1989,
debt service would be about 8.8% of GDP, and then decline to 5.1% by 1995.
25.      Colombia has reached agreement in principle with commercial banks
on a financing operation covering 1987-88, totalling US$1,060 million.
This is a voluntary operation, reflecting Colombia's strong economic
performance. As part of this operation, US$200 million is included as
parallel cofinancing for the Power Sector Adjustment Program. Th.e proposed



-9-
Bank loan, including its quick disbursing features, is an essential part of
the financing package. This package, together with likely new lending from
multilateral sources, should provide the funds which Colombia needs to
achieve its growth targets during the 1987-88 period.
E. Relations with the IMF
26.      Colombia entered in 1985 into a monitoring arrangement with the
IMF, which was linked to the 1985 "jumbo" loan. Under this program,
Colombia met all targets. Since its expiration at the end of 1986,
Colombia has maintained close collaboration with the IMF, and intends to
continue this relationship without recourse to a formal monitoring
arrangement in the future. The Bank and IMF frequently exchange views on
issues of Colombia's macro-economic management.
F. Assessment
27.      In summary, Colombia's medium term program represents an effective
basis for policy action in the 1987-90 period, but this period will see
important development challenges, and continued strong macro-economic
performance will be essential if economic growth is to be sustained at the
target level. The Government's success in reducing fiscal deficits and in
redirecting expenditures and investment, public and private, to meet
production and social objectives, will be critical for the program's
success. Major efforts to mobilize domestic resources, including
continuing action on tariffs, will also be essential. Finally, the
Government has recognized the need for sustained action to improve the
efficiency of public sector management, notably by strengthening planning
and budgeting systems and enhancing efficiency of institutions like the
Important utilities. The task of mobilizing external resources Is
difficult, but, given continued strong economic management, access to
external financing along the lines outlined above, and increased domestic
resource mobilization, and Colombia should be in a position to sustain
economic growth and development in the medium term. Thus, the country
should also be able to continue its excellent debt service record and
maintain its creditworthiness in the future. The Government's major macro-
economic objectives for 1987-90, include further narrowing down of the non-
coffee public sector deficit, maintenance of Colombia's international
economic competitiveness and continued liberalization of the trade regime,
including further reductions in quantitative restrictions. This program
will be the basis for the continuing exchange of views between the
Government and the Bank.
PART II. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Energy Sector Profile
28.      Colombia has abundant energy resources and traditionally has
enjoyed a positive trade balance in energy, except for the 1976-84 period.
During this period, Colombia was a net importer of energy due to a decline
in oil production. To redress the negative trade balance that could have



- 10 -
compromised balance of payments prospects, the Government moved in the late
1970s to direct public sector investment to the energy field, particularly
hydroelectricity and coal. As a result, trade balance in energy is again
positive, through oil and coal exports.
29.      In the short term, with the exception of the oil subsector, the
mr-in problems faced by the energy sector are financial, since internal cash
generation will not be sufficient to service the sector's debts and provide
for an adequate contribution to its investment needs. In the long run the
key concern should be to reap the benefits derived from the country's
energy endowments. A comprehensi'-e energy policy is being prepared and
will focus on such key matters as private sector participation, sector
regulation, pricing, interfuel substitution, and sector funding strategies.
Resource Base and Consumption
30.      Colombia is self-sufficient in all primary energy resources, and
there is substantial scope for future expansion. Traditional primary
energy (fuel wood, bagasse, and other agricultural residues) is in abundant
supply. Modern energy supplies are even more plentiful. Potential hydro
power has been estimated at about 100 GW, with only 4,900 MW (1986)
ceveloped. Recoverable proven reserves in petroleum are estimated at 6.4
billion barrels. Recoverable gas reserves are estimated at 7.5 trillion
cubic feet. Potential coal reserves are estimated to be on the order of 18
oillion tons, the largest reserve base in all of Latin America. Colombia
-s well positioned to export coal, with a sizeable portion of the reserves
located in coastal regions. The 1986 energy scenario is shown below:
Ratio of
Reserves to
Reserves           Production (1986)      Production
Mtoe    m%)          Mtoe                     (Years)
>lydroelectricity    5,475 1/   29.5          5.27      17.5         Renewable
Coal                12,000      64.7          6.20      20.6          1,935
Natural Gas            175        0.9         3.51      11.7             50
Crude Petroleum        900        4.9        15.04      50.2             60
Total             18,550      100.0        30.02    100.0
1/ Theoretical output in 50 years, calculated on the substitution basis.
31.      Particularly for hydro-power, substantial preparatory work has
been done which confirms the rich potential for future development. An
extensive inventory and evaluation of about 300 potential hydroelectric
sites is available and a large number of them (20), totalling about 20,000
MW of potential capacity, have been studied at feasibility level.  The
individual capabilities of the studied sites are between 32 MW and 4,200
IW; eight of the sites are smaller than 300 MW of installed capacity. This
spectrum of potential projects is sufficiently broad to allow an economic
utilization of the hydro risources of the country. In addition, an
inventory of potential sites for steam coal generation is available.



- 11 -
32.      Commercial energy consumption in Colombia 's about 14.2 Mtoe/year.
Except for the oil requirements of transportation, the demand pattern is
fairly diversified. Demand for natural gas has grown the fastest in recent
years, with electricity close behind. Demand for non-commercial energy has
grown very slowly (about 1.9% per year) reflecting a gradual process of
substitution by commercial energy.
33.      In 1985, about 70% of electricity was produced from hydro sources.
Use of coal for production of electricity was low (10%) compared to the
extensive reserves.  Production of electricity from gas (15%) was higher
due to subsidized gas prices for electricity production. The balance (5%)
is produced with petroleum products.
34.      Attractive possibilities have been identified for substitution of
electricity by other types of energy in the mid-and long-term, especially
in the residential sector. The industrial sector, which at present is
paying electricity rates above long run marginal costs (LRMC) in some
regions, has a proportionally low electricity consumption compared to
other sources, mainly coal, bagasse, gas and heavy non-exportable oils.
The implementation of the recently approved Government tariff policy
(para. 104), under which electricity rates for industry in Bogota are
expected to decrease in real terms, progressively converging to LRMC, is
expected to result in an increase in electricity's share of industrial
energy consumption.
35.      Substitution of electricity by gas in the Atlantic coast area and
in the Departments of Huila and Santander has started successfully.
However, in most other areas, at present there are no viable energy
alternatives to substitute for residential electricity consumption. In a
few cities, sore bottled LPG is available at highly subsidized prices.
However, because of the subsidy, until recently ECOPETROL, the government-
owned oil company, distributed only small quantities of LPG. The price of
gas used for electricity generation is also highly subsidized. The
Government is analyzing the economic justification of the substitution of
electricity by LPG for household cooking and water heating purposes and
preliminary indications are that it would be advantageous. Feasibility of
the construction of a gas pipeline from the Atlantic area to Bogots will
also be studied.
Strategic Issues for the Energy Sector
36.      Colombia has recently undertaken a comprehensive study of the
energy sector with assistance from the UNDP/IBRD Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP). The review underscored the importance of
energy sector issues for macroeconomic performance and shed new light on
key sectoral issues, notably energy pricing and substitution.   It
concluded that a significant shift in the direction of energy sector
policies was called for to ensure that they provide effective support to
the medium term development program.
37.      An important finding was that restricted supply of natural gas and
LPG resulted in uneconomic use of subsidized power for cooking and water
heating in most of the major urban centers, thereby contributing to the
unusually large share of residential consumption of electricity in total
energy use in Colombia (50% of total).



- 12 -
38.      Another important finding was the lack of coordination between the
energy subsectors, both in investment planning and in pricing policies.
Such poor coordination was reflected in the coal subsector and the power
subsector in establishing price projections for steam coal. The generation
program developed in the early 80's was heavily tilted towards hydro
projects, as the coal export price (about $55 per ton) was used as the
opportunity cost for coal. However, Colombia has huge coal reserves
(12,000 Mtoe), distributed over the whole country. Not all of this coal is
available for exports due to high transport costs, and therefore, a lower
opportunity cost should have been used.
39.      To address these issues, the Government plans to establish an
Energy Board which would formulate sector policies and regulate the
rational use of energy resources (para. 85).
B. The Power Subsector
Organization and Institutions
40.      Six main utilities currently dominate the power subsector:
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), Empresas Pu:blicas de
Medellin (EPM), and Corporac-on Autonoma Regional del Cauca (CVC); strong
independent utilities serving the major markets (Bogota, Medellin, and
Cali), Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), which is the main
shareholder of thirteen smaller utilities, Corporacion Electrica de Costa
Atlantica (CORELCA) -- the main shareholder of nine utilities; and
Interconexion Electrica, S. A. (ISA), a generation and transmission
utility. Five other smaller utilities play a minor role. Basic statistics
for each of the main utilities are provided in Annex 8.
41.      EPM is fully owned by the municipality of Medellin, Colombia's
second largest city. It operates power, water, sewerage and telephone
services. It is responsible for serving about 102 of the customers and
represents 20% of total national electricity sales in the country. EPM is
generally well run and efficient.
42.      CORELCA and ICEL are fully owned by the Government and together
account for about 50% of the customers and 35% of electricity sales. Their
twenty two subsidiaries face serious problems, stemming from poor
management, excessive politization and generally poorer, isolated market
areas. Control by the two parent companies is poor, particularly in the
case of ICEL. An in-depth analysis of these institutions is being carried
out and is expected to be completed by September 1988.
43.      CVC is a generally well run regional development corporation whose
main function in the sector is to sell bulk power to the integrated system,
mainly to the distribution company serving Cali (EMCALI). Neither EMCALI
nor CVC have major problems.
44.      EEEB is a large utility (800,000 customers, 3,800 employees)
serving the city of Bogota. Over most of its 20-year relationship with the
Bank, EEEB has had a history of good management and satisfactory financial
policies. In recent years, however, both the Government and the Bank have



- 13 -
become increasingly concerned about the trend in EEEB's performance. The
simultaneous construction of the Mesitas and Guavio hydroelectric projects,
which the Bank helped to finance through Loans 1628-CO (signed April 9,
1979) and 2008-CO (signed March 8, 1982), strained both EEEB's financial
capability and its management. Relatively frequent changes in senior
management added to the problem and the zeal of the main shareholder (the
municipality of Bogota) in pteserving the autonomy of the company from
interference by the Central Government added a political dimension to
efforts to redress EEEB's problems.
45.      Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA) is a key sector institution,
with broad responsibilities for sector planning, interconnection of
regional systems, and operation of the integrated system. It uias
established in 1967 as a corporation whose shares were owned by the
regional and municipal utilities. The Bank played an important role in
ISA's establishment, which reflected a concern dating from the early 1960s
with the fragmentation of decision-making power among increasingly
autonomous utilities. Initially, the Governrent was not represented on
ISA's Board. This changed in 1985 when ISA's by-laws were amended to allow
Government non-voting representation on the Board. The lack of direct
3overnment representation between 1967 and 1985 was an important impediment
which prevented the Government from taking effective action to ensure that
power sector policies were fully in line with macro-economic programs.
46.      Since the late 1960s, ISA evolved into an important and effective
institution. Its role in the critical area of overall sector planning has,
however, been seriously constrained by the strong pressures from individual
region-based utilities to develop their own generation facilities and their
general resistance to intervention. In 1979, at the insistence of the
regional utilities which were facing the threat of electricity rationing,
the Government agreed to permit the regional utilities to initiate their
own generation projects. However, it was agreed by the Government and
ISA's shareholders that ISA would operate the trunk transmission lines, act
as national dispatch agency and, in the long run, own at least one thire of
the total generation capacity in the sector.
47.      With the benefit of hindsight, the decision to allow the regional
utilities to own and to construct large generation projects was not sound,
as it led to competition among them for projects in their respective areas,
without due consideration of national interests. This weakened ISA's
ability to ensure that the investment program constituted the national
least-cost solution and to adjust programs to changing circumstances. Once
projects were included in the investment programs of the municipal or
regional utilities, ISA lacked the authority to adjust the pace of
execution to take into account changes in demand.
48.      The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) plays an important policy
and regulatory function in the power sector and specifically is responsible
for issuing regulations on the provision of electricity and on technical
standards. The tariff board, JNT (Junta Nacional de Tarifas) which is
under the National Planning Department (DNP), -is empowered under Decree 201
of 1974 and Decree 149 of 1976 to set electricity tariffs but does not have
full regulatory functions to ensure compliance and to assess the efficiency
of individual utilities. While it is adequately staffed to analyze tariff
proposals for utilities, it is not organized to play a larger role at



- 14 -
present. The present regulatory framework is not fully satisfactory; while
some municipalities, namely Medellin, exercise a close control over the
activities and performance of the utilities they onm, in others the control
is poor. As JNT does not have regulatory and monitoring functions, at
present no Government agency is empowered to establish performance
indicators, review operating costs and monitor achievement of efficiency
targets. Until recen:ly, some utilities interpreted JNT's tariff
resolutions as setting onlv an upper limit of the tariffs they could charge
to consumers. This contributed to some of the existing tariff distortions,
as some utilities chargai lower tariffs than those approved by JNT,
especially to low income consumers. Since 1986, the Government has
established clearly, in policy directions and by law, that JNT sets the
actual tariffs to be charged, and the -*tilities have been complying with
the JNT's tariff resolutions.
49.      Another sector institution is FEN (Financiera Electrica Nacional)
a financial intermediary set up by the Colombian Government in 1982 to help
finance the irivestment programs of the power sector, oversee the sector's
finances, and coordinate the sector's financing strategies. FEN's
shareholders are the National Government (95%) and the sector utilities
(5%). FEN was to act as a financial agency for the sector, as well as
advisor to the Government on financial issues facing the sector and the
funding schemes for large projects. These objectives have not yet been
fully attained. FEN's role over the past few years has been to channel to
the power sector the funds obtained from the Bank (Loan 2401-CC) and from
cofinancing and other foreign sources, and to raise funds in Colombia's
financial markets which it has onlent to the sector utilities. FEN iS
efficiently run and its organization and staffing are adequate for the
functions it is carrying out. Its profitability has been consistently
satisfactory, and the return on equity has been 21%-22% a year. Recently
it has begun to act as advisor to the Government on financial issues facing
the sector.
50.      Under a recent loan from IDB for electricity loss reductions, FEN
has agreed to evaluate subprojects submitted by the beneficiaries,
following criteria which meet the appraisal standards of IDB (which are
similar to the Bank's). To do this, FEN has set up a Projects Evaluation
Division and has staffed it with qualified personnel. This function will
expand FEN's role to one which more closely resembles a development
institution for the power sector.
Power Demand
51.      Electricity use is extensive in Colombia and is increasing at
rates higher than those for total energy consumption. About 58% of
Colombia's population of 28.4 million has access to electricity.
Electrification is higher in urban areas (about 95% in Bogota, Medellin and
Cali), but large areas of the country still lack electricity service.
Electric power provided 28% of total commercial energy in 1985, which
compares with 24% in 1980. The increasing share of electric power in total
energy consumption is largely the result of gradual substitution of oil
products and non traditional fuels by electricity, mainly in the
residential sector.



- 15 -
52.      In 1985, nearly 50% of electricity consumption was by residential
users, who currently have no sa':e energy alternatives, except on the coast
where natural gas is availabl-. In the interior and in some urban areas,
poor people use a type of kerosene which is unsafe and highly subsidized.
LPG is also subsidized but available only in limited amounts. Industry
accounted for about 29% of total electricity consumption. This low share
is because some industries have availabIl cheaper energy alternatives, like
coal, gas, bagasse and heavy non-exporztble oils.
53.      Electricity consumption (25.6 TWh in 1985) increased at a rate of
about 10.1% in the 1970s but growth has dropped substantially since 1981.
The high consumption growth during the seventies and delays in completing
some generation projects caused electricity rationing during 1981 and 1982.
This led to excessively optimistic planning for the power sector in the
1980s, on the assumption that demand would continue to grow at about 10%
per year. In the period 1980 to 1985, the actual yearly growth rate was
only 5.6%. This drop was mostly due to economic recession during this
period.
54.      The current demand forecast assumes that electricity consumption
will continue the trend of the period 1980 to 1985, thus a growth rate of
5.6% per vear is expected during the period 1987-1990. Residential
consumption is expected to grow at 5.5% per year, and industrial
consumption at 6.1% per year. Electricity billings in monetary terms are
expected to increase at a higher pace, 6.8%, mainly due to the expected
reduction in theft and increase in tariffs.
Power Supply
55.      Current electricity generating capacity is well in excess of
demand and this situation ia expected to prevail through 1995. Public
utilities produced 95% of tocal electricity in 1985 and autoproducers,
mainly industrial, thle remaining 5%. Autoproduction is expected to
represent the same percentage in the near future. Installed capacity in
1986 was 6,700 MW, of which, 1,800 MW was thermal and 4,900 MW hydro.
Three major new plants (San Carlos II, Betania and Termoguajira) will start
operating in 1987, and total installed capacity will increase to 8,600 MW.
This exceeds the estimated peak demand of 5,000 MW by 72% which is well in
excess of a normal reserve margin. However, for Colombia's system which is
predominantly hydroelectric, energy generating capability is a more
relevant parameter, given its dependence on hydrological variations and oil
the size of the reservoirs existing in the system. In this respect, the
firm energyl available in the system in 1987 exceeds estimated
requirements by 22% which, while much lessi dramatic than the capacity
reserve margin, is still excessive as an adequate reserve margin over the
firm energy availability. This latter margin will gradually decrease to
14% in 1990, increase again to 18% in 1991 when the Guavio hydroelectric
scheme starts operating and would disappear by 1995 whe:, new generation is
likely to be necessary.
56.      As indicated in para 53, the overcapacity described above results
primarily from an overestimation of demand and concern with the
consequences of rationing in 1981-82. Another contributing factor may have
11 Firm energy is defined as the energy available 95% of the time.



- 16 -
been ISA's lack of power to adjust the pace of execution of projects
(para. 47). This led to a large expansion plan approved in 1981 which
included the installation of 9,160 MW (of which 8,270 hydroelectric) during
the period 1981-1991 and demanded yearly investments of US$1,150 million in
1982, US$1,357 in 1983, US$1,252 million in 1984 and US$928 million in
1985. As the constraints on national resources tor investments and
external borrowings and the likelihood of excess capacity became apparent
in 1984-85, the Government reviewed the program and decided on drastic
reduction in its scope. These decisions were made in consultation with the
Bank which was assisting in the financing of some of the projects
concerned. As a result, the start of four large hydro projects was
postponed (Miel I, Urra, Calima III, and Caniafisto, with an installed
capacity of 3,290 MW). The completion target date for the Rio Grande and
Guavio projects, totalling 1,360 MW was postponed to 1992. This decision
should result in a reduction of 51% in the capacity expected to be
$nstalled during the period 1981-1991 in relation to the previous plan.
Electricity Losses
57.      Electricity losses represent a serious probl.m for the sector.
They have increased from 16.8% in 1970 to 20.4% in 1980 and to 23.9% in
1986. This has been due to insufficient investment and inadequate
maintenance in distribution facilities which has resulted in their
deterioration and overloading, and to a substantial increase in energy
theft. The insufficiency of investment in distribution is attributable to
deficiencies in distribution planning and management. The increase in
energy theft is attributable to industrial theft and to social problems
(proliferation of illegal land occupations and corresponding electricity
connections). Lack of both an appropriate legal framework to punish energy
thefts and of an effective system to detect thefts have contributed to the
problem. However, with IDB and Bank assistance, the Government has started
to address it.
Sector Planning
58.      Sector capabilities for generation and bulk transmission planning
are relatively strong from a technical standpoint. Present overcapacity
problems (para. 56) can be largely attributed to other factors (above all
the failure to anticipate slowdown in economic growth). Until the 1960s,
power generation expansion plans were prepared independently by each
regional utility. When ISA was created, one objective was to centralize in
it generation and transmission planning. ISA was initially assisted by
Harvard University, and adopted Harvard's models for power expansion
planning. ISA subsequently developed a comprehensive methodology for
analyzing alternative expansion plans, consisting of several mathematical
models, including a stochastic treatment for hydrology, as well as
methodologies and models for analyses of the transmission system. In the
early 1980s DNP and ISA, with technical assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany, developed an inventory of hydroelectric resources, and
optimization and simulation models for long-term strategic planning.
Though the planning methodologies used have been sound, some distortions
have occurred in the planning and decision making process, for the
following reasons: (i) not all generation alternatives were explored to the
extent desirable, in particular, not enough attention was given to the
possibility of using coal generation more extensively; (ii) the robustness



- 17 -
of the selected investment programs was not properly assessed for scenarios
which differed significantly from those then considered as most likely;
(iii) planning was based on market prices which could be different from
opportunity costs; (iv) the decision making process allowed regional
interests to exert undue influence; and (v) sector planning has not given
due consideration to environmental and social aspects of projects at an
early stage.
59.      The issues mentioned above are currently being addressed.  The
next least-cost investment program (for 1991-2000), which would be
furnished to the Bank as a condition of release of the second tranche of
the loan (para. 94), would be prepared according to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (this implies, among other considerations, shadow
pricing and inclusion of environmental costs).    The demand forecasting
methodology still can be improved by a better knowledge of the market of
electricity uses and a better assessment of the impact of tariff structure
changes. To assist in the preparation of a suitable long-term program, the
1987-1990 investment program includes the following studies: (i) planning
methodologies related to cost of electricity rationing, forecasting
economic variables required for the power demand models, forecasting of
load curves, and the impact of alternative energy prices in the power
demand forecasts; and (ii) rehabilitation of power stations.
Sector Finances
60.      The power sector currently faces serious financial difficulties;
notably it has insufficient funds to meet debt service and capital spending
requirements in the 1987-90 period. The financial difficulties of the
sector can be attributed to:
(a) A concentration of debt service commitments in the next few years,
arising from amortization and grace periods that were too short
given the time required to complete construction of ongoing
generation projects (including World Bank loan -- the Guavio loan,
for example had a 4-year grace period for a project with a 7 year
construction period originally envisaged and which is now
estimated to be 10); problems were accentuated by delays in
construction schedules;
(b) Past and committed capital spending based on higher than realized
demand growth rates, causing a large proportion of the generation
capacity that is being commissioned between now and 1992 to be
unutilized;
(c) Periods, such as 1985-86, during which there were significant
currency devaluations, causing the debt service burden to increase
more rapidly than internal cash generation. In 1986/87, this was
further compounded by the devaluation of the US dollar vis-a-vis
the Yen, Deutsche Mark and other European currencies;
(d) Arrears in amounts due to the utilities for the supply of
electricity, especially from the public sector;
(e)  High level of energy losses (23.9% in 1986), of which about half
corresponds to energy thefts;



- 18 -
(f) Inefficiencies resulting from lack of a regulatory framework and
from inadequate Government supervision of the utilities.
61.      The long-term debt of the sector at December 31, 1986 was about
US$4.0 billion equivalent of which about 45% corresponds to Bank and IDB
loans and the balance to commercial loans and suppliers' credits. Internal
cash generation covered only 90Q of debt service, mainly because the
average term of the sector debt is short (about 10 years) compared with the
average life of power investments, which normally extends beyond 25 years,
and because of grace periods much shorter than the construction time
required for the projects. Access to financial markets to refinance the
sector's obligations has been limited, because of the si2e constraints of
the local market and because of conditions prevailing in external markets.
The liquidity of the sector has also been very low, reflecti..g the undue
use of short-term borrowing to meet financing requirements.
The Finances of the Main Utilities
62.      On a consolidated basis, the sector rate of return on revalued
assets in 1986 was 5.7% and the ratio of debt to total assets was an
acceptable 55%; however, the financial situation of the individual
utilities differs significantly.
63.      EPM (22% of the market) is the utility in best financial shape.
Its 1986 rate of return was about 13%, debt only represents about 48% of
total assets, internal cash generation is positive and loans already
obtained are expected to fund a sizeable part of its investment needs in
the coming two years.
64.      CVC's finances are also quite satisfactory (CVC has 13% of the
market) after a recent agreement with EMCALI, CVC's largest customer,
providing for a mechanism for the timely payment of EMCALI's electricity
purchases. The rate of return on CVC's assets is above 9% and the ratio of
debt to total assets is 52%. The company does face a short-term financial
problem arising from inadequate terms on its local borrcwings, but
offsetting this are its very modest investment needs. It is expected that
the Government and FEN will be able to provide for adequate refinancing
arrangements without major difficulties.
65.      EEEB (26% of the market) has a very high rate of return on
revalued assets, about 16% in 1986, but has been significantly affected by
the devaluation of the dollar; its debts currently represent about 53% of
total assets. These assets include the very large Guavio project
(supported by Loan 2008-CO) on which about US$900 millioi  ave already been
invested as of June 30, 1987; an additional US$1,100 mill'cX investment is
required before the project starts to generate electricity in 1992. EEEB's
financial problems are mainly related to the financing of Guavio, but have
been exacerbated by a rise in electricity theft and by collection
difficulties.
66.      The owners of Guavio (EEEB and ISA) have not been able to
contribute to the financing plan of Guavio in the agreed amounts.
According to the agreements reached when project construction started, the
owners agreed to share the cost (and ownership) of the project not financed



- 19 -
by loans as follows: EEEB 70.2% and ISA 29.8%. The 29.8% was to be
provided by ISA's shareholders other than EEEB as followss EPM 2.6%, CVC
9.3%, ICEL 13% and CORELCA 4.9%. Only EPM is up-to-date with its
contributions to the project. An overall s;atisfactory financial situation
for the sector would allow the others to contribute their share. Under the
proposed loan, measures would be taken to ensure full funding for Guavio
and government equity contributions to ICEL and CORELCA (para. 101).
67.      The CORELCA group of companies (18% of the market) faces serious
financial problems. While the 1986 rate of return for the parent company
was relatively high, about 9%, this hides the fact that the group faces
major collection problems. Arrears to the subsidiaries from official
customers (mainly municipally-owned institutions) were close to two years,
reducing in turn the subsidiaries' ability to pay for their block purchases
of electricity from the parent company. In addition, net operating income
of every subsidiary was negative and six of the subsidiaries had
accumulated losses in excess of their capital, thus facing a situation of
de facto bankruptcy.
68.      The situation of the ICEL group of companies (19% of the market)
is, in many aspects, even worse than that of the CORELCA group. This is
because ICEL's subsidiaries, by and large, serve relatively poorer markets
including rural areas in which population is sparse and average consumption
per customer is low. The problems of this group are compounded by the
excess capacity the sector now faces, as until 1990 it is expected that the
group will have to pay for energy in excess of its requirements, under
existing contracts with ISA. The consolidated rate of return of the group
is negative, and relatively few of the subsidiaries are in acceptable
financial shape. Several of the subsidiaries have a very weak equity base.
69.      ISA's finances mirror the situation of the sector as a whole.  As
a company owned by the other utilities of the sector, ISA is dependent on
them both for equity contributions and for the prompt payment of the
electricity it sells. ISA's rate of return has been high and its financial
structure is sound with debt amoun-ing to about 50% of total assets. Net
internal cash generation, on the other hand has been low and is expected to
become negative because of heavy debt service commitments arising from
inadequate terms on ISA's borrowings.
Electricity Pricing
70.      Over the past decade, there has been a significant increase in the
level of electricity rates. At present, the average level is about 90%
higher, in real terms, than in 1976, and the policies in effect call for
further real increases in the coming years. While on average tariffs are
now quite reasonable (the financial problems of the sector are mainly due
to heavy debt service and unused capacity, not to rate levels), and the
amount of further adjustment required relatively modest, the tariff
structure is quite distorted.
71.      With regard to the tariff structure, the following salient aspects
might be noted:
(a) Residential tariffs are uniformly low relative to LRMC, but those
of the lower consumption blocks (especially up to 400 kWh per



- 20 -
month) are lower than short-run marginal costs, even in a surpluas
generation capacity situation. These tariffs also vary widely
across cities, mainly due to historical reasons, but with little
economic rationale.
(b) The subsidized consumption blocks are too large, extending up to
400 kWh pei month whereas the average consumption per customer is
about 230 kWh/month. A preliminary estimate suggests that 100 kWh
per month should be more than adequate to satisfy the basic
lighting needs of the average poor household. Higher actual
consumption levels indicate that electricity is being used for
cooking and water heating, which might be done more efficiently
using alternative fuels (e.g. natural gas and LPG).
(c) The industrial tariffs in Bogota are well above LRMC, but this is
not the case elsewhere in the country. Electricity prices paid by
commercial and other (non-residential) consumers are also
generally on the high side.
An estimate of the LRMC structure is shown in Annex 7, which also shows
present tariffs in selected cities.
Environmental Aspects
72.      Colombia has adequate institutional arrangements to deal with
environmental matters. By law, all major development projects require an
environmental assessment which is submitted to a specialized institute,
INDERENA under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, for
approval. There is nonetheless room for improvement. The most important
change needed is to ensure that environmental considerations are
appropriately taken into account in the planning stage, before decisions on
project selection are made. At present, environmental costs are not taken
sufficiently into account for the choice of a least cost investment
program. Furthermore, ISA's Planning Office does not have enough
environmental staff. ISA's environmental unit needs to be strengthened by
incorporating additional staff, setting up training programs, upgrading the
status of the environmental unit, and placing it under ISA's Planning
Office.
73.      An important concern of the power sector is the adequate
protection of the river basins and watersheds where the hydroelectric
plants are located. There is room for improvement in river basin
management, and in reforestation and protection from sedimentation. In
this regard the highest priority should be assigned to the reforestation of
the Chivor watershed. The 1000 MW Chivor project was partially financed
under Loan 681-CO, signed in 1970. The project is owned and operated by
ISA. It was completed in 1977. Of the approximately 340,000 ha which
comprise the Chivor watershed, 50,000 ha are considered in need of
reforestation. About 3,000 ha have already been reforested and the rest
should be done in the next 10 years.
74.      One other major type of remedial environmental investment is
needed. Ash disposal is the main unsolved environmental problem of
Colombia's coal fired thermal plants, and the problem is likely to increase
if additional thermal plants are built, as would now seem likely. At



- 21 -
present, both fly ash and bottom ash are voluminous, and under the
temporary ad hoc systems of ash storage now used, water contamination is a
frequent problem. To address it the power sector should invest in
environmentally safe ash disposal landfills, or other suitable
alternatives.
Social Aspects
75.      In recent years the power sector has faced on different occasions
social problems arising from its heavy hydroelectric construction programs.
There have been the typical "boom town" effects caused by the construction
activities and also rural protests to request increases in the amounts of
compensation for land purchases and to seek more public works (e.g.: roads,
schools) in compensation for the disruptive impact of power projects.
76.      To take social issues into account adequately, the sector should
carry out comprehensive socio-economic studies as part of the planning
process. A collaborative process needs to be instituted whereby the power
sector, municipal governments and regional and national development
agencies work together to resolve the social and economic problems of areas
affected by large scale hydroelectric projects.
77.      A related matter which deserves specific focus is the development
of a disaster planning and prevention capability within the sector. At
present projects are examined for seismic risks and dams are monitored.
However, since Colombia is located in a geologically active region, the
sector should pay special attention to the social and environmental effects
of a major accident at a hydroelectric site.
Bank Support for the Power Sector
78.      The Bank has made 30 loans since 1950 for the Colombian power
sector totalling US$1,910 million. Seven projects are presently on-going.
Most of the loans have supported the expansion of Colombia's generating and
transmission capacity. While Bank-financed power projects included
distribution components, the first Bogota Distribution Project (1807-CO, in
1980) was the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively
distribution expansion; it was followed in 1985 by a second Bogota
Distribution Project (2634-CO). The Bank has made only one loan for rural
electrification (Loan 1999-CO in 1981) with limited objectives, which are
generally being met. No Bank loan has been made to ICEL, the weakest
utility in the country. The loan now proposed would be the first which
explicitly addresses issues for the power sector as a whole.
79.      Several OED reports have found previous Bank lending to the sector
to have been generally successful. One of these reports "Power
Interconnection (575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects (681-CO)"
(Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979) commented upon the Bank's participation
in Colombia's efforts to evolve a stronger and more efficient power sector
organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunction with these
projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and institutional
difficulties, progress was made toward more coordinated sector development.
Despite implementation delays and increased costs both projects were
successfully executed.



- 22 -
80.      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the "Mesitas
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1628-CO)" (Report No. 6638, February 13, 1987),
acknowledges the benefits which have accrued to Colombia and its electric
power sector from its long association with the Bank and notes that
measured by world-wide standards, Colombia has done a most creditable job
in the development of electric power. However, the report notes that the
Mesitas project was completed four and one-half years late, and that EEEB's
financial position deteriorated vis-a-vis the forecast at appraisal. The
main reasons for this were the following: (i) financial problems due to
currency devaluation; (ii) the initiation of construction of the very large
Guavio Project by EEEB at a time when Mesitas still presented important
management issues and required substantial counterpart funding; and (iii)
increased costs, attributable to the long delays in completion. With the
benefit of hindsight, the simultaneous construction of two large hydro
projects overwhelmed EEEB and are a probable cause for the deterioration of
its performance and quality of management. The Government and the Bank
underestimated the effect of these projects on EEEB and failed to take the
necessary actions to minimize the risks.
PART III. THE POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Policy Framework and Government Oblectives
81.      The power sector occupies a central position in the Government's
medium term program for the following reasons:
(a) the cost and availability of power is of critical importance to
the competitiveness of the industrial sector and hence to the
Government's overall export drive;
(b) power is the largest sectoral consumer of public funds, absorbs a
major share of the resources available for public investment and
is responsible for the largest share of external debt. Improving
the quality and timeliness of investment in the sector is
therefore a cornerstone of the Government's policy to rationalize
public investment;
(c) the power sector has considerable potential for foreign exchange
savings through policies directed at improving the efficiency of
energy utilization and through rational and economical development
of the important indigenous energy resources; and
(d) the power sector is an important vehicle for domestic resource
mobilization through appropriate pricing policies.
82.      While the broad policy framework in the sector has been clearly
established, as a result of both policy review and actions initiated by the
Government, a number of issues still need to be addressed. Further actions
need to be taken to improve the institutional framework, to make the
utilities more accountable, and to strengthen the regulatory framework
defining the rules for performarce monitoring, which is still embryonic.
Actual investment decisions are sometimes contrary to stated policies and
investment planning still needs to be improved. Financial restructuring of



- 23 -
the sector and of some of the utilities needs to be completed.
Furthermore, considerable efforts will be needed by Government to maintain
progress made thus far in pricing policy and to achieve the targets set for
the reduction of losses.
83,      Following extensive discussions with the Bank, the Government
presented a satisfactory statement on its power sector policy (Annex 3).
This statement addresses all the important investment, inst!tutional,
financial and management issues discussed in this report.
84.      The Government's policy statement reflects its medium and long-
term objectives for the power subsector, which are to:
Investment Policies
(a)  develop a strong planning and coordination capability within the
Government and ISA;
(b) ensure that future power requirements are fully met without the
restrictions of the past or the excesses of the present through
investments at least cost to the economy;
(c) ensure that indigenous energy resources are exploited according to
strict economic principles;
Institutional Framework
(d) move from the present practice of individual, dispersed and
ineffective control of the utilities to a broader regulatory
framework in which the rules for investment decision making and
operational behvvior are well defined and the utilities operate in
a well coordinated environment within the sector, with the rest of
the energy sector and with the macro-economy;
(e) provide a policy framework whereby the utilities operate
efficiently and have a sound financial structure based on the
soundness of the sector as a whole.
(f) increase awareness of social and environmental concerns and the
capability of dealing with them.
Improved Efficiency
(g) ensure maximum operating efficiency in all utilities through
proper utility and project specific management practices, good
operating procedures and adequate maintenance; and
(h) achieve economic pricing policies while measures will be taken to
ensure that the costs of inefficiency will not be passed on to the
final consumer.



- 24 -
B. The Program
Investment Policies
85.      One of the major objectives of the power sector adjustment program
is to establish institutional arrangements which would overcome past
investment planning deficiencies arising from (a) the lack of coordination
of such planning across all energy subsectors and (b) the lack of a central
authority which could ensure that investment plans took due account of
Government policies.  With this in mind, the Government submitted to the
Congress in November 1986 a draft law which would establish an Energy
Board, to be composed of the Minister of Energy, the Chief of the Planning
Department (DNP) and representatives of the energy agencies (Carbocol,
Ecopetrol, ISA and FEN) and be funded from contributions from the sector
companies; it would have its own technical staff. The Energy Board would
set policies and regulate the use of energy resources. To achieve this
objective, the Energy Board would forecast energy demand and would select
the most economical energy source for each use and approve investment plans
of all energy sector entities. Thus, the Energy Board, on the basis of
alternatives prepared by ISA, would approve generation and transmission
expansion projects in the national interconnected system, and all other
transmission, subtransmission, distribution and rural electrification
programs. This legislation includes provisions designed to achieve greater
coherence in the policies followed in the various subsectors, and will make
it possible to focus on issues such as the energy sector's linkage to the
macroeconomy and interfuel substitution, that were being inadequately taken
into account in the past. The Government hopes to obtain passage of the
Energy Board legislation during the Fall 1987 session of the legislature.
Under the action program, supported by the proposed loan, a condition of
release of the second tranche would be either approval without significant
change of the draft law by Congress, or adoption of alternative
administrative measures which would achieve substantially the same
purposes.
86.      While the Energy Board will establish standards for and approve
power subsector investment programs, the preparation of the major programs
will remain the responsibility of ISA. Thus, another measure necessary to
ensure the high quality of the investment program will be the strengthening
of ISA's role. When major generation and transmission projects are
included in the investment programs of the municipal or regional utilities,
because of the ownership pattern, ISA does not have the authority to adjust
the pace of execution to take into account changes in demand. Furthermore,
there is great risk that local or regional pressures may lead to a change
in an agreed prograw.  To ensure proper execution of the major investment
program, the action program provides that ISA will be granted the authority
to own, construct, and operate all future major generation and transmission
projects prior to release of the third tranche. The Urra project, which
has been long ago assigned to CORELCA -the only power company without a
share in a hydropower plant-, will be exempted from this new policy.
However construction of this project is not expected to start before the
early 1990s.



- 25 -
The 1987-1990 Investment Program
87.      The Government has recognized that it will take some time for the
Energy Board to be organized and fully operational and that in the
meantime, it is necessary to revise the investment program developed in the
early 1980's as it was based on demand projections which did not
materialize. In addition, the available spectrum of hydroelectric options
has been widened by completing studies on several additional potential
hydro sites, and thermal options, mainly coal, seem attractive given the
large amount of non-tradeable coal in the country and low production costs.
88.      The Government revised in 1986 the sector's investment program
through 1990 on the basis of current demand projections, with the
objectives of (a) minimizing future excess generation, (b) utilizing
presently installed capacity and (c) taking into account the financial
restrictions of the sector and of the public investment program. The
revised program thus involves:
(a) postponing the start of construction of 3200 MW in hydroelectric
projects and associated transmission facilities, equivalent to an
investment of about US$1300 million in the period 1987-1990;
(b) completing generation projects and associated transmission
:acilities now under construction, with delayed schedule when
feasible; in particular, completion of the large (1000 MW) Guavio
nydroelectric project was delayed to 1992; and
(c) limiting the scope of the distribution component to those
investnments intended to reduce energy losses in existing
facilities and required for maintaining electricity service
coverage in urban areas and the current pace in rural areas.
The revised program envisages direct investments of US$502 million in 1987,
US$554 million in 1988, US$550 million in 1989 and US$456 million in 1990,
an average of US$515 million per year, which is about 43% of the investment
level of the 1982-1985 period. This revised program contains a balanced
blend of generation, transmission lines and distribution f_cIlities, and
takes into consideration the priority and timing of every program
component.
89.      The 1987-1990 investment program would total about US$2,062
million at current prices (before interest during construction) of which
US$1,056 million would be foreign (both direct and indirect) and US$1,006
million would be local. Local costs include taxes and duties estimated at
US$180 million. A summary of the investment program is given in the
following table:



- 26 -
Power Sector Investment Program, 1987-90
(US Million)
FC         LC         TOTAL       %
Generation                              477        383         860       42
Transmission                            249        233         482       23
Subtransmission & Distribution          298        342         640       31
Studies and Other                        32         48          80        4
TOTAL (before IDC)                    1,056      1,006       2,062      100
IDC                                     729        202         931
TOTAL                                 1,785      1,208       2,993
Under the action program:
(i)   The Government and the Bank agreed during negotiat'&ons on the
size, including annLual investment levels, and components of the
power subsector investment program for each year 1987-90.
(ii)   The investment program would be updated annually, and the
Government and Bank would conduct joint reviews of the program
(and related financing plan -- para. 99 below) and the status of
its execution by October 31, 1988 and 1989. A satisfactory
updated sector investment program and related financing plan would
be a condition for release of the third tranche.
Investment Proaram 1991-2000
90.      To take care of sector needs beyond 1990, tEe investment program
needs to be defined on the basis of a new least cost generation planning
study. ISA is already starting to prepare a revised expansion plan, which
will take into account all options (mainly hydro and coal), under agreed
terms of reference, which include improvements to the planning methodology.
The studies of new generation alternatives are expected to be completed in
early 1988, in time for a decision for new generation needed in 1995.
Under the action program, a draft of the revised least cost investment
program through the year 2000, including generation and associated
transmission programs, would be completed in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank prior to release of the second tranche. The submission of the final
least-cost investment program would be a condition of third tranche
release. In addition, the Government agreed during negotiations that no
new generation investment would be started unless included in the agreed
least-cost investment program and that rural electrification programs in
excess of those contemplated in the 1987-90 Investment Program should
proceed exclusively on the basis of secured additional financing.
Guavio Proiect
91.      The largest project in the on-going investment program is the
1,000 MW Guavio Hydroelectric project, which is being executed pursuant to
a partnership agreement among EEEB and ISA. As mentioned in paras. 44 and



- 27 -
66 above, the construction of this project has placed major strains on the
management and finances of EEEB, ohich has the primary mar.agerial and
financial responsibilities. It is important to the timely and economic
execution of the investment program that implementation of this project be
completed in an efficient manner. A new agreement among the partners
designed to strengthen the ownership and management scheme, and which takes
into account the energy needs of EEEB and the ISA shareholders, has been
signed. Agreement was reached at negotiations on a updated financing plan
and revised management structure including a schedule for their
implementation. Satisfactory progress in their implementation would be a
condition for release of the second and third tranches.
Institutional Framework
92.      Beyond the institutional changes described above which are
required to define and implement investment policies and decisions at the
sector level, the Government is committed to embark in a broad improve,--t
program of the sector's institutional framework to ensure  B; efficiency of
sector operations.
93.      As noted in paragraph 48 above, the existing regulatory framework
of the power subsector is inadequate. Important sector entities, most
notably CORELCA and ICEL, and more recently EEEB, have experienced serious
managerial and financial difficulties, while their managerial and
operational autonomy, which would be a very healthly condition in an
appropriate regulatory environment, goes virtually unchecked. The JNT has
the power to determine tariffs and as discussed in para. 52 above, its
authority has been reinforced by recent Government actions. Nevertheless
it must accept on faith the data presented by the companies to justify rate
adjustments and has no ability to assess whether or not particular
adjustments are merely rewarding inefficiency. Establishing appropriate
mechanisms for monitoring the efficiency of sector utilities and for
enforcing improved performance has proven to be an intractable long-term
problem.
94.      Under its action program, the Government has approved the
establishment of a Monitoring Committee for the power sector, comprised of
representatives of the ministries of energy, finance and planning (MME,
MHCP and DNP).  This Committee, which reports to the Ministry of Energy,
with technical support from FEN, will monitor on a continued basis all the
power sector utilities in terms of budget execution, financial performance
and yearly expenditure allowances. It was agreed during negotiations that
by December 31, 1987, the Committee would establish an appropriate system
to monitor the performance of the sector. The participation of MHCP will
ensure the compliance of the Government's macroeconomic targets for the
power sector, while DNP will provide (through JNT) the linkage between the
rate-setting function and the assessment of their compliance by the
companies.
Utility Management
95.      Rather than letting the indirect and necessarily slow process of
improvement through the regulatory-tariff approval process determine the
pace of improvement of the three weakest utilities, EEEB and the ICEL and
CORELCA groups, the Government is taking direct, positive steps towards
achieving specific improvements in management practices in these utilities.



- 28 -
Management studies of the ICEL and CORELCA parent companies ar.d for each of
the twenty two subsidiaries of ICEL and CORELCA will be contracted with
independent consultants acceptable to the Bank, working under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, first to diagnose the management
problems of these utilities and then establish detailed plans of action to
address the problems Identified by the consultants, and to implement their
recommendations. Under the action program, the management improvement
action plans for the ICEL and CORELCA group would progress according to a
detailed schedule agreed during negotiations. A comprehensive management
study of EEEB to be carried out by consultants acceptable to the Bank,
working under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would identify
the reasons for EEEB's decreasing efficiency and quality of management in
recent vzaars. A managementgimprovement action plan for EEEB will be
submit-ed for Bank approval'by December 31, 1988.  Submission of ICEL's and
CORELCA's electrificadoras draft management improvement plans would be a
condition of release of the second tranche; submission of EEEB's, ICEL's
and CORELCA's plans would be a condition of release of the third tranche.
Electricity Losses
96.      The Government gives high prioiity to reducing electricity losses
as a means of improving efficiency and improving sector finances. The
sectur is already committed to a substantial effort to reduce physical
losses and energy theft. Thus, in the context of the project financed by
Loan 2634-CO for EEEB, the reduction of losses in Bogota, which represents
25% of the market, is one of the main objectives of an ambitious recovery
program. A special unit in charge of implementing a plan for reducing
tnefts in Bogota was created in EEEB in early 1986, and growth of losses
was stopped in 1986. To carry out a project oriented to reduce energy
losses in the rest of the country, IDB has already approved a US$70 million
loan to be administered by FEN, and onlent to the utilities. The total
cost of the program which IDB's loan will help to fund is US$200 million.
Under this program, studies to reduce physical losses in seven cities have
already been completed. In addition, ISA has set up a national committee
to follow up the loss reduction program and to recommend measures needed
for its implementation. This committee is composed of planning staff of
the six major utilities. As a result of these efforts, losses are to be
reduced from 23.9% in 1986 to 21.1% in 1990 and further reductions
thereafter. Intermediate targets have been agreed during negotiations. It
was also agreed that by December 31, 1987 the Government would submit to
the Bank, a study of the legal framework and policies against electricity
theft and a plan to apply them. Satisfactory progress in achieving the
loss reduction targets for 1987 and 1988 would be a condition for release
of the second and third tranches.
Ecological and Social Aspects
97.      It follows from its present and planned responsibilities that ISA
should be in charge of overall ecological and social issues that affect the
sector. To this end, ISA has begun to develop specific plans to
incorporate staff with social sciences background who can assist with the
needed planning and monitoring functions. Since Colombia is located in a
geologically active region, ISA is developing a disaster planning and
prevention capability within the sector to cope with the social and
environmental effects of a major accident at a hydroelectric site. ISA is
also taking actions to ensure the adequate protection of river basins and



- 29 -
watersheds through reforestation of about 50,000 ha. About 3,000 ha have
already been reforested at Chivor, a hydro project, partially financed by
Loan 681-CO and the rest should be done in the -lext 10 years. Finally,
under ISA's guidance, the power sector is investing In environmentally safe
ash disposal landfills, and other suitable facilities, ti.A main unsolved
environmental problem of Colombia's coal fired tnermal plants. During
negotiations it was agreed that ISA would develop by March 31, 1988 an
action program to address the ecological and social oroblems affecting the
sector, including staffing plan, budget and training programs.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the action plan would be a condition
for release of the second and third tranches. The action plan also
requires ISA to reforest additional areas at the Chivor project. As for
social aspects, the Government submitted to the Bank a satisfactory program
to address social issues caused by the-Guavio hydroelectric project.
Satisfactory progress in complying both with the ISA social and ecological
program and with the Guavio program would be conditions of release of the
second and third tranches.
Financial Ad1ustment Program
98.      The long-run objectives of the Government are: (i) to improve the
financial structure of the sector by reducing the weight of debt in the
total financing mix; (ii) to lengthen the average term of the sector's debt
and to progressively increase the self-financing capabilities of the sector
through a pricing policy based on economic principles; (iii) to reduce
progressively, and eventually eliminate, the need for financial
contributions to the sector from the Government; and (iv) to imrrove
financial discipline by ensuring prompt payment of accounts due to, from,
and within the entities of the sector. In order to achieve these
objectives, the constraints posed by the heavy debt-service burden of the
sector and limitations in access to external financing sources, as well as
economic and social considerations governing the desirable pace of tariff
adjustment, must be taken into account.
99.      The financing plan for 1987-90 was designed in consultation with
the Bank and IDB, after sounding out commercial banks and prospective
cofinanciers regarding the feasibility of the amounts that were being
considered, and the likely timing of new financing agreements. Even though
the investment program has been reduced from the sector's original
expectations to take into account macroeconomic priorities and to protect
the soundness of the financing program, during 1987 and 1988 equity
contributions will be required from the Government, in addition to
electricity rate increases, to ensure the full funding of the program. The
Government agreed during negotiations on a financing plan for 1987-1990.
The sector's investment and financing plans for 1987 through 1990 would be
reviewed jointly with the Bank on a yearly basis (para. 89). This would
facilitate adjustment of financial targets to changing conditions, while
ensuring that the objectives of the program are maintained. The following
table shows the consolidated financing plan for 1987-90, and also presents
projections for 1991-92. Detailed projections are presented in Annex 6.



- 30 
FINANCING PLAN
(Millions of Current US$)
Total
1987-88  1989-90   1987-90   1991-92
Financing Needs
Investment Program                         1,459    1,534      2,993     ;,718
Working Capital needs                        105       128     _ 233        137
TOTAL                                    1,564    1,662      3,226     1,855
Financing Plan
Gross Internal Cash Generation               1,369    1,759      3,128     2,243
Less: Interest Charged to Pperations       (518_     (429)     (947)     (329)
A. Net Cash Flow                               851    1,330      2,181      1,914
B. Consumers Contributions                      34        29        63         17
C. Government Contributions 1/                 280       110       390
D. Total non-borrowed (A+B+C)                1,165    1,469      2,634      1,931
E. Gross Borrowings                          1,383    1,372      2,775      1,047
Existing loans (foreign)                  761      359      1,120       195
Future loan-:
Loans from Government through FEN         146       57        203         -
Cofinancing                               300      730      1,030         -
Local borrowings (FEN)                    176      226        402       296
Other (Future 1991192)                      0        0          0       912
F. Less Debt Amortization Requirements        (985)  (1,178)   (2,163)   (1,479)
G. Net Borrowings (E-F)                        398       194       592      ( 333)
TOTAL (D+G)                               1,563    1,663      3,226     1,855
1/ Includes $300 million from proposed loan.
100.     This financing plan which calls for US$3,226 million illustrates
the plight of the sector and above all the funding problems during the
1987-1990 period of very heavy debt service requirements. The borrowing
program, though sizeable in gross terms, is quite modest in net terms, and
would result in a reduction of the debt/equity ratio, from 55:45 at present
to 37:63 by 1992. In this situation, unless access to external financing
fails to develop as expected, it would not be advisable to seek a greater
self-financing effort, as it would require a slower pace of convergence to
LRMC levels of those electricity rates now above such levels (an
economically undesirable option, particularly at a time of excess
generation capacity) or a significantly faster pace of increase to
residential consumers, at a time when social concerns arising from high
unemployment and unrest in some areas of the country indicate that this
would be an undesirable course.
101.     The ambitious self financing target in the financing plan requires
implementation of several measures: tariff increases, payment of public
sector arrears, government contributions, rehabilitation of the utilities
of the ICEL and CORELCA groups, and financial assistance to EEEB and ISA.
The adjustments proposed in each of these areas are included in the action
program and outlined below.



- 31 -
(a) Tariffs: Resolution No. 86, which was issued by JNT in November
1986, provides that electricity rates will be adjusted every
month, progressively converging to LRMC. In the case of the
residential sector, the monthly adjustment will be made on the
basis of the annual increase in the minimum wage, and in the case
of industrial and commercial tariffs on the basis of the increase
in the power sector's costs. In addition, there would be annual
step adjustments of up to 4% (residential sector) and 5%
(industrial and commercial sector) until LRMC target levels are
achieved. JNT has already issued resolutions for the tariff
adjustments for 1987. On average, the above results in an
increase estimated to be about 3% p.a. in constant terms of the
selling price through 1992. To promdte the use of unutilized
generating capacity, there is an idea of providing promotional
tariffs to industry for incremental loads on a contract basis
until capacity becomes fully utilized. To ensure compliance with
resolution 86, any adverse material change to it, or failure to
implement it, would be a condition of default of the proposed
loan.
(b) Public Sector Arrears: The total public sector debt to the
electric utilities was around Col$10.6 billion in end-1986 (US$52
million). This reflects a situation that has not improved over
the years and which affects national, departmental and municipal
entities. These arrears pose a financial burden on the utilities,
and should be paid. At negotiations, the Government submitted a
plan of action to eliminate the arrears of these entities in a
gradual way. Satisfactory progress in eliminating the arrears
would be a condition for release of second and third tranches.
(c)  Government Contributions:  The Government would make equity
contributions to ICEL and CORELCA a total amount of U.;$240 million
(1987-90) in local currency. Another US$150 million equivalent
would be channelled through FEN as loans to the power sector
companies between 1988-1990. Of the total amount, the Government
should pay US$150 million equivalent by end 1987 and another
US$130 by end 1988, as part of the financing plan.
(d) Financial rehabilitation of ICEL and CORELCA's individual
utilities: Some of the power companies of the ICEL and CORELCA
groups presert a very weak financial performance. Several
proposals have been developed over time to address this issue and
the Government is now taking the following measures: (a) changing
the bulk rates towards LRMC, but differentiating between customers
to take into account the characteristics of the markets they
serve; (b) an intensified effort to increase the equity
participation of municip&lities, departments, and private sector
institutions in the poorer utilities; and (c) a study of possible
mergers and redistribution of markets. However, the restoration
of financial viability can only be achieved through the
implementation of financial rehabilitation plans for each company.
To successfully implement these plans will require detailed
planning as well as the approval and support of all levels of
authority necessary for their implementation. Individual
companies must be given specific financial targets for which they



- 32 -
are to be held accountable, such as rate of return, operating
ratios and debt service coverage. Rehabilitation plans for the
CORELCA and ICEL group of utilities were agreed during
negotiations. The rehabilitation plans should be updated in 1988
to reflect the findings and recommendations of the ongoing
management studies. Satisfactoty progress in the implementation
of the plans would be closely monitored by the Bank and would be a
condition of release of the second and third tranches.
(e)  Cofinancing.  To meet the funding needs of the sector between 1987
and 1990, in addition to the proposed Bank loan of US$300 million,
an amount of US$1,030 million is necessary from foreign sources.
About US$300 million is expected to be provided by IDB through a
loan, mainly for the Guavio Project and transmission system, which
is expected to be appraised in the second semester of 1987. The
Government has applied to Japanese Eximbank for a loan of up to
US$300 million, also mainly for transmission and distribution
system investments. About US$200 million is being channelled to
the power sector as part of the US$1,060 million external
financing package, which the Colombian Government recently agreed
in principle with commercial banks. The balance of about US$230
million is expected to be funded by a) future suppliers and export
credits, b) additional financing from IDB and the Bank, and c)
complementary commercial bank financing, including private
placements or bond issues in Japan and floating rate note issues
in the Euromarkets. Firm commitment of (1) US$200 mwillion of
cofinancing funds (from all sources) would be a condition of
effectiveness and (2) and additional US$250 million (a total of
US$450 million) of such funds would be a condition of third
tranche release. in the event that such actionis and commitments
do not materialize, the Government should satisfy the proposed
conditions by initiating implementation of an equivalent
contingency pF n (e.g. reduction of investment program, increase
in Government equity contributions).
103.     Future sector borrowings (FEN and the utilities) should be
strictly coordinated to be successful and timely, FEN should inform the
Bank on the status of the cofinancing arrangements.
Pricing Ad1ustment Program
104.     The Governmert of Colombia intends to continue with the policy of
increasing electricity tariffs in real terms which it has been following
for the past ten years.  The action program in this area, therefore
includes the following:
(a)  To ensure an efficient allocation of resources while adequately
meeting very valid social policy objectives, the consumption block
for subsistency needs would be reduced to 100 kWh per month.  This
may be done immediately in areas where alternate fuels are already
available for cooking, but must also be implemented as early as
possible in other cities, as other fuels like LPG become more
accessible at prices consistent with economic efficiency
considerations. During negotiations, it was agreed to gradually
reduce the level of the consumption block for subsistency needs to



- 33 -
100 kWh/month, whenever the gas and LPG program the Government is
starting to implement in several cities approaches an 85%
coverage. Before June 30, 1988, the Government will define a) the
timing targets to reach this coverage level in the main cities of
the country and b) the criteria for adjusting the consumption
block for subsistency needs.
(b) Household rates up to 400 kWh (basic consumption level) per month
will be raised gradually in real terms. In most consumption
centers, the application of this scheme will rapidly bring the 400
kWh/month rate to the level established in Resolution 86.  In
Bogota, because of the particularities of the residential market,
the adaptation to Resolution 86 will take longer than in the rest
of the country. At negotiations, it was agreed to adopt an
intermediate consumption block (between 200 and 300 kwh/month) for
Bogoti and gradually align the Bogoti rates with the rest of thA
country.
(c) Under JNT's Resolution No. 86, industrial electricity rates
throughout the country would be revised, to bring them in line
with LRMC, and thus provide efficient price signals for both
investments and electricity use. In particular, the Bogota
industrial power rates would be reduced, while increases would be
implemented in other parts of the country whenever necessary. At
negotiations, a scheme was agreed for Bogoti that would allow the
company to sell existing energy supplies under special contracts
to selected industrial consumers at lower prices.
105.     Through implementation of the measures discussed above, it is
expected that by 1994, when excess generation capacity is expected to have
become fully utilized, all electricity rates will have substantially
converged to LRMC-based values, (except for lifeline rates to the poorest
sectors of the population).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Background and Justification for Bank's Involvement
106.     The proposed loan is a key element in the Government's plan for
external resoure; mobilization in support of its adjustment program. It
has also a central role in this program, as it would help achieve the
Government's objectives of redirecting public investment away from capital
intensive sectors, enhancing domestic resource mobilization through
appropriate pricing policies and improving the management of public
enterprises. It is the outcome of a Government/Bank power sector dialogue
over the past two years. The loan was prepared in the field in June 1986,
preappraised in November 1986, and appraised in February 1987. The
reports, studies and working papers prepared in support of the proposed
loan are listed in Annex 11. Negotiations took place in Washington in
SepteAber 1987. The Government was represented by Mr. Guillermo Perry
Rubio, Minister of Mining and Energy.



- 34 -
Disbursement
107.     The proposed loan of US$300 million would be made to the Republic
of Colombia. Full disbursement of the loan would take place over a
fifteen-month period. Disbursements of the proceeds of the proposed loan
to the Government would be made against general imports, subject to a
negative list of ineligible items (retroactive to April 1, 1987), in three
tranches. -The first tranche of US$150 million would be disbursed upon loan
effectiveness; the second and third tranches of US$75 million each are
expected to be disbursed about 7 to 9 and 13 to 15 months later,
respectively, after fulfilling of the agreed conditions which are indicated
in Annex 10. Disbursements wouid be based on satisfactory evidence of:
(i) physical entry of the imports into the countsy; and (ii) actual payment
in foreign exchange for such imports.
Procurement
108.     The imports to be financed would be made by public entities and
private sector importers, following procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Contracts for the procurement of imports exceeding US$5.0
million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with Bank procurement guidelines.
Contracts under US$5.0 million would be procured through normal procedures
used by importing entities.
Monitoring and Reporting
109.     Qualified staff within each of the main sector agencies have been
designated as responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation
of their respective activities under the sectoral adjustment program.
Typically the lei.d staff are at the level of either Director of Planning
and Coordination or General Manager. FEN would have the responsibility for
coordinating the action programs of all sector agencies and would take lead
responsibility in preparing major progress reports including the completion
report.
Accounting and Auditing
110.     The Central Bank will maintain separate records and accounts of
all transactions under the loan. All such accounts will be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and the auditors' reports
will be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each calendar year.
Program Benefits
111.     Implementation of the cohesive program of actions to be supported
by the proposed loan will result in several significant benefits to the
economy. These actions will:
(a) rationalize resource allocation in the power sector;
(b) significantly increase the stock of trained manpower both in the
traditional areas of planning and management and in areas



- 35 -
relatively new to Colombia such as regulatory, environmental and
social aspects, etc.; and
(c) reduce and render more efficient public expenditures in the sector
through improved operational efficiencies, cost recovery policies
and investment planning.
112.     The IRR of the 1987-1990 investment program. is about 13%.  The
investment program is likely to generate additional social benefits
accruing from expanded residential and public use, as well as additional
economic benefits accruing to production from a more reliable electricity
supply.  The estimated rate of return is at the upper end of the
opportunity cost of capital in Colombia which suggests that, since
electricity rates are used as a proxy to measure the benefits from the sale
of electricity, the proposed tariff policies will be consistent with
economic pricing.
Sensitivity analyses carried out for the investment program are
summarized below:
Sensitivity                              Rate of Return
Lower demand growth (reduction
of 1 percentage point in annual
growth rate)                                 11.0
Energy sales valued at tariffs
prevailing in Mtrch 1987                      11.7
Investment program costs 10% higher           11.8
113.     Power sector policies are mainly designed to improve efficiency
and do not have a large d!,ect impact upon poverty except for the
Go4eiunent's rural electrification program which is specifically targeted
at impoverished areas of Colombia. As a result of a significant increase
in investment in 1985 and 1986 the rural electrification program is now
well on course to meeting Government's target of completing electrification
of main villages by 1990.
Risks
114.     The main risks in implementing the sector adjustment program arise
from:
(a) Possible failure to secure cofinancing in the amounts and timing
envisaged. However, to ensure the viability of the financing
plan, the Government would prepare a contingency plan, in case
cofinancing prospects do not materialize as expected, which would
detail criteria for delaying investments, define commitments for
incremental Government equity contributions and bridge loans, and
provide for assumption of sector debtlor provisions for
acceleration of the program of rate increases (para. 102).
(b) Regional resistance to the concentration of responsibilities on
the Energy Bokrd, the Monitoring Committee, ISA ar.d JNT in
regulation and monitoring.



- 36 -
(c) Volatility in energy demand and supply forecasts as a result of
changes in the macro-economy and in external factors such as
international energy prices.
(d) The pace of tariff increases especially in light of any increases
in the inflation rate. Considerable efforts will be needed by
Government to ensure that electricity prices reflect changes in
inflation in order that planned LRMC targets are maintained. The
annual reviews of the investment programs and associated financing
plans will give the Bank an opportunity to discuss on a regular
basis the details of specific issues and targets.
(e) The expected increased independence of the municipalities from the
Central Government that might cause differing tariff objectives,
in both structure and levels, anticipated under the adjustment
program.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
115.     Colombia has received 120 loans, totalling US$5,731.4 million (net
of cancellations), of which US$4,163 million is outstanding as of September
30, 1987. IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961.
Disbursements have been completed on 84 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has
made investments and underwriting commitments of US$171.5 million in 32
enterprises and as of September 30, 1987, it held US$57.5 million. Annex 2
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA Credit, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1987
116.     Disbursements have increased significantly in recent years, from
an average of US$86 million equivalent per year before 1979, to US$591.0
million in FY85 and US$654.0 million in FY86. In addition to the expanded
volume of lending this higher disbursement activity is primarily related to
the three fast-disbursing loans (FEN, TPED, TAP) 2 which accounted for 521
of the total disbursed in FY86, and to concentrated efforts to overcome
problems in the start-up and implementation of projects. For example,
procurement delays have been overcome when Colombian authorities agreed to
a more automatic import licensing mechanism for Bank-financed projects.
Establishment of Special Accounts and Special Account Program measures
alleviated constraints on counterpart funds. Semi-annual country reviews,
held with the Government's Project Monitoring Unit established in 1984,
have also helped to identify problems to expedite project implementation.
117.     The Bank's lending strategy has evolved overtime as the result of
an intensive economic policy dialogue with the Government. It has
progressively broadened its scope and has recently focused on working
improvements in three broad areas: (a) efficiency of resource use and
economic diversification; (b) public sector management; and (c) basic needs
and employment. Policy discussions over the past several years have
highlighted fiscal, interest rate and pricing policies, as well as trade.
In trade, the objective has been to enhance the incentives for exports and
2/ Power Development Finance (FEN), Trade Policy and Export
Diversification (TPED) and Trade and Agricultural Policy (TAP) loans.



- 37 -
to reduce the level of effective protection. The most encouraging results
have been achieved in trade policy and public services, including setting
more appropriate charges for power, water, irrigation and petroleum prices.
118.     The evolving role of the Bank is clearly reflected in the lending
commitments. Since the mid-1960s, when 88% of the Bank's loans made were
for power of transport, loans have supported projects in agriculture and
industry, itrigation and watershed management, education, water supply,
telecommunications, urban development, petroleum development, nutrition and
health. This diversification process was largely a function of the
sustained and broadened socioeconomic progress in Colombia and close Bank
association. By the late 1970s, 53% of the loans made to Colombia were for
projects other than transport and power. In the mid-1980's, the scope and
instruments for lending were extended further via the Trade Policy and
Export Diversification and Trade and Agricultural Policy loans. This
reflected the Bank's increasing emphasis on stimulating higher productivity
in income and employment generating activities in agriculture and industry
and on the need to achieve a more outward-oriented economy. Both loans
have played an essential role in Colombia in this respect, helping to
advance the country's economic program and to attract an associated package
of short- and medium-term commercial bank financing.
119.     The Bank's lending in FY87 totalled US$180.3 million and consisted
of one loan for highways sector. For the future, several projects are
under preparation to support the new Government's decision to step up
efforts to reduce poverty in Colombia. These will focus in particular on
increasing access to water supply and sanitation, education and health
services. Work is also underway on operations to facilitate agricultural
diversification and generate employment in small scale activities , mining
and industry. Other preparations are also being made for operations
stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more intensive use of the
existing facilities in the Colombian ports and highways systems, as well as
improvement in public sector management.
120.     While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 77% of total
external financing to Colombia in 1970, their shar,a4...e decreased since
then to some 60% for 1985 and is expected to decline further to about 33%
of external capital requirements by 1990. In addition to its traditional
focus on power, IDB has been giving increased emphasis to projects for low-
cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university
education, water supply, rural electrification and land erosion control,
which are aimed at improving living standards of the lower-income
population. In the future, it proposes to also assist Colombia
increasingly to expand productive sector activities to help generate
increased employment. USAID has supported programs in education, rural
development and small farm development, but is phasing out its assistance
to Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and
the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for basic needs
and regional integration projects. IFC has a small, but innovative program
in Colombia focusing primarily on private sector investments in nickel,
energy and transport, and advisory services to DNP and the Central Bank on
foreign investments.



- 38 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
121.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
November 10, 1987
Attachments
9 .



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Pag 1 of 6
fa-195 Pptla   teaul        .42
t3      CP   t Sit /USbllII   1.320
A. sas e t FM    us_tle PIG wt,"                                L  latth Ron  IS w         _   I" taott
Uru cuet pecs, data)                                           lif? t    tat  fice Saw
1945      113        510        1934        193      196                W19 3   1973-0   19163044  29IS       p96
m5 OTIC  P3t,   It 11                   11010.00    10.0.00    100.       10.4       1.*    1M.*                      L4       4.91      La        2.43      Li5
Not man"t Ta5                                       .2        10.03       9.3*      10.44      c                    59       11.03      543      1o.o 3
_Iyscutut                               24.4       24.5       19.33      17.7       17.21      ed                   4.31      4.5       1.53     0I 
1 st2iy                                 2.7          .01      3.04       21.42      2.1         4                   7.9      2.57      2.La      4.4 
l5sfulactort                           14.79      I6I?       14.97      t.19      t12        0                    LV5      L341        0.3      2.14     sa
lmnce                                   44.44      45.41      4.13       0.217      4.         me                             1...      2.00     0.74 
bes  Sle                                   O.9        2.01       0.40      -3.21       1.32      2.70                 ..       ..
tapas of on"    ifS                       12.01      15.24      17.21      12.14      14.74     19.3                 14.94      6.l1    -2.41      6.6       24.1:
topto e4 I OI of$                         11.04      14.X       14.31      15.42      L4.0       1.14                14        1.2       3.43     *2.s0     4.2;
C       tsop                              6.?        3o.n 72    8.3         4. 41     63.43      ea                   4.42      1.13      3.13     33          .24
Private CUn txse                        74.9       71.4       70.43      73.3       n2.t2      as                   .22      5.07      3.14  ; .90         -0.11
SovMe    Coou%Otlo                      7?3         96        0.09      11.04      10.72      s                    LO       5.93     2.95     -0.55      4.00
isron h ttle  test_            t.                    13.27      29.07      I69        17.9       Re                  4.n       5.71      2.3?    -11.7       4.15
Greiuuo laeetint                          .86      15.0      1u."        14.97      14.5       a                    7.29     s.        L2       -3.34      5.02
Chat   to Staets                         2.40       2.47       2.29      20.         1.12      c                    ..       ..
131  WITIC 59il5 (1TAN)                 17.20      19.3       19.47      15.5       143                             1.07     5.13    -5.02       4.42      s.94
te Factor lco                         -1.34      -LI2         4.59      -2.74      -3. 3                           ..       ..
Me  Ctrewat tnmurs                       0.S2       0.S4       L.4O       0.71       2.2       m                    ..       ..        ..
61404  MIIoWS $,Wm   112                  IL4O       17.52      19.3       13.eI      14.10      Ba                   4.44          6.     34     2'.2      42.t
nUlIaSk of P#Ml
tat custast 13  Vnceu                     194       1973        1960      190 1463              1
urge Leetc Dreit                         .7.2;    1130.34    1579.13   I27I.5       1S.15   1641
Coacity to lsoit                          94.19,    19." 99     1.m       2.11       333.4    15L91
_rn   auite  law6                        6.52    t12L0.6    2579.1S    u619.40    1749.X    IO.?
jews ltisl 9igt472.44    107.00    2549.15    1d.41.t                               143.7   1742.2
Oren N.ea  1ace                    - *t.453    t1.4   1tU9. IS    144.5             170.24   246.4
lolaal   iate  os., oc of v.ars
_- ....------A29W  * 100.-                                          -
C. Price jutce                           196          2961       1962       296        2964      193        194            in73-0   196-6        2965      :96
Cufw  Prics 1If41                         MA.       1227.5      156.0      19..2      22.1    273.9        32.7                 24.4     22.;      :.5       :t.V
bholesale tricas 11                       1tl.       126:4.1    25.9       9".6  X     2.5      2.5         42.2 3 .9                    21.6      ::.o      2.4.4
Impllcit W   04later                     1W.l4                 IS=.2      104.4      225.3    W7.             .9               24.5      22.3 1     4 



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
PSj"of 6
D. OtheitiSCators                    595                  1933                 1910.5
eir    at te s  .&b
palatUi                                 2.5 3                IA                    I5."3
Lw  Foe 21                              2n .4.q3                                   2.3
grs Nat1a  tal    P.C.                  3.S4                 3.Lu 3.
Pnvat C      _muts P.C.                  .e.02                                     1.40                                   4
?po rt Elasticity                       .a                   5.4                  L.oo
Savzsq 'atou: (i avq
:rz lattimal levtaq                  21.0                 sIn                   14.?7e
s  Domatic lot"a                   19.09                59.91                 15.9
zt I tp to    $"l                     l* jot                                       *         
pWietw  Up) Si                     2.6 1      ;    .       9                 L.|                                   3t1kU
195       1tn 91     10        1901 0
har* of Tetal Laor force to:
IqrIcuItvre                          *!.21       42.!?     34.7?      32.73
lalstry                               M243       .4.51       .99      3;.7n
Servicg                               M1.5       22.92       544      29.50 
Total                                1U0.00    100.00      1A.00    500.40
I/ say AK amd waQu  Id3 i  to louste Oakh C1U9   in 91, aty s.ctr, attests
1 law force 59310
J [cm 190*43
p/prehessy
.'"taiete



- 41 -
X 1
Pag-3- of 6
Vov   loft  41908106                                           Vlte a ount Prt_. lu1l:aa us'
t.  %     ioo bE ts                      im        l9         13         19I        194          19                   1           2I   t  9        1944      1M1
Cef                                     10.0        79.4       It.?       9.7        3.?      50.9                 z.3;      t1        1,53       ,5       1,1
Piua                                    500.0      M.7        s0.4       3.3        2.7        A.1                   to       I2s       434       430       Ot
Cml                                     10.0       l9.0       31t.1 I    04.1    3,4".0   5,3.3 I                               I 1       1        4        121
_                                       100.0       99.1       71.4       7.s 5       .43      16.1                M90        di        s41       734       4Z3
ltier   w"                              1t0.o       74.5       40.4       30.5      127.1     119.1                  3b       II        431       *11       *h
?tAt          111 131                     10.0       a.0        34A1       9t.40     109.10    14.640               4.291     3,M       ;.147     3,423     L.
F. d11abiin 1ovtg
Co~   "a                                  10.0       19.9        90.3   l    4.9      '5.2       73ILI                 7        41        4?          ?         :11
1s0. 100.0  1.        119.6      U.4          0.?     43.4                  III       di        4         44        4M9
latuvulaa t                               tO1.O     150.0      10.0        121.4     t11.1      t10.S                1.49     2.54      1.147     1.7l4     1.5?
CwWX Io                                   100.0      141.3      130.1      111.3      107.7     192                  1.45   I ,m         1.11      5,4"      I.7
174    I       E t1 1                     10M.0      MA.        1.3    IM.3           104.       95.0               4,        I'5       4414,     4.027     '.$42
S.  t     4 hids  t 119300.11            149       1962       1933       1934       195          193
wo. faut "co low                          500.0         .1      31.7        65.4       33.3      4.5
%rgm.  1ow    ?"co low                    10.0        93.3       "A           .4 4     1.3       VJ.
fret o. fr        Irad  to"               10          9M. 94.9             102.2      .01.3    100.3



- 42 -
MAuI I
Pag  4 of 6
U   Sluutei 44ats                         291        1445      190        214        19       115
spti, Bl                                5,74o      4,3       4*,5      4*,1       S,tol    t,4a
Nwrcb, #a                             *,          ,. 3;,44            3,6X3      3,1,   5,4$,
"141t   swvitua                       1,451      1la         903        93       1,331     5,0
loans, am                                5,412     7,22       Alm        $s         1,4       31,59
ffuao.m                               443        $,;=       4,44      4,41        ,4A      3,444
1u     w  Staa                        2,329      1,14       2,'       I,UI       1,       2,121
'm--      o mu                             135     2,41)    (2,259)    0,M)          (45       VI
n- fo t r  ma                             419        4437)     (n7SI    (1,51      4,15    41,154)
iat Curw  tr.sfv                           143        2.9       1o         299        44   m 7
UiRt ACCU  W t                             1t4     42,15)    42,4       42,5)    15,2l1        SW
L9W  Vs Cl *tII W1ig                      sit      2441       5,457      2,1,4      1,87     2,3>4
not rlmt laituit                         SI       Su7        514        58         n2       *3n
Not .1  1ea  453                        id        93S        "        12,25      1,t41     ,431
Total olin      otS                        343       on9       (4il    42,065       (37s)   alum,34
ar  Bat ttrlll                           W        37S      4ISM)       23901       b0e    tl,241
Ca$,  A4. *          S gmwumis          24        s09         1ft      (b1ot      Im53       194
mawu tt to Nit bun"                     (1,26o        13      2,812      1,34        t427t   45,44
Mt crout it" t l(allus)                   4          9         9          a o                 0
Om"t u rnwa                           1,'1 1                  m 5,2   t,14        42751   tl,444
rsce k1m                                0.4        4        -5.L         .4       -1.3      2.1
tlvtit    * 3     tset (t itu.  gt      5.0 I.9              2.5         i        3 l .9   S3.
Cral k .t Sh                            0.3      -1.4       -1.3       -5.4       -3.4      t.s
btl    ^  t   tZ Wm}ou             Q:.416     *,"1       1.,"      1,m       a,*7      I,=
ifficd  &-Sl 4,1 .                                   4.1   *   73.9      u.S        142.3    2I.
law   aS    f  4 hu It n                 50O.Vi      Ws I.5         IS    91       19.       33.4
w  to"le  out                            35        Z 9         ,?9      33."       34,04    32,w41



A= I
*,f14I 6
- 43 -                                                               7P f6
1 d  35                                                        knob  Sati  11 it.e.  ,g'mpt  ewtsl
1. cmtiii dais  kc ts                      191        1982      t13         1984       15         9h              19C           194       1988      29
Cwrstt luceipt                             9.2        ?4 .7                 8.0        9.2      10.4                 11.4      31.2      45.2      47.3
Corr-atel fgau                             9          1.9         U.8       9.7        8.8       9.5                  7.0      39.2      14.       40.7
Cteumt 86t   Bulme                         0.9       .0.6       -1.1       -i.t        0.4       0.9                 ..
L40.a,  etept                              0.0        0,0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0                  0.0       0.0       0.0        '. 0
Coital   l t3.'                                      3.8        3.4        2.7        3.0       2.3                 21.1       0.2      40.2      -0.1
0..,   hEacal                             -2.0       .4.4       -4.5       -4.4       -2.6      -1.4                 ..
e:tp.,2l ",.n         tat?                1ta       t          0            0.7        1.0       1..
fmatat  ftii:tq                           tt        0 1                      .7        1.6       0.2                 ..
Id kdesmsts (a0  aillinsO  flt                                          stiadiss & obwui IV" millions,
*. estanl lgta  i fla. 0401
-06 Owid  11atim                       1960       19K        198        1934       1985      19                   196       192       1P        1494      25           198.
9.l1c & PaIadlt  aiatnO                    li         928        99       1.18       2,16X1    1,671                4,314    S          i6,72     7,H99    4,34         11.43'
OWEcUSl  "trtt                            277        383        510        614         23       b0e                2,=3      3,014     3.,0    4,027       5,111        e.O8f
'bItulatra                              23   1 21             291        45         6U5       471        IJXf              1,l       2.155     2.572    3S.2          1.3.85
of AbcO  W                            152        I1         165         0         419       314 9tt                       1,340    1,511     1,816     2.n3         :.S'Fn
IatuulW                                  54        109        219        162         0        214                I,035     1,134     I.33      1,455     1.86s5       :3'
Fl  to Cniatwi                            4921       543        449        54         2511      "I                  1,69     2,912     3.5i3   3.942       4,232        5.45
sot.ws                                   20         40         41        19          s                             211       280       302 420             015 l04
Flaucal lrtols                          412        48         402        3          150       994                 1,460    2,6'9     3,082     3.457     3.63         4.8.
9i,ft*              NlT I                    65        313         33        i9F        130        73                  515      2,192    1,2'V     1,.43     1.568        l.S56
lotaj OLT                                   033      1,2t4        992     1I35.       1,292     1,743                4,599     1.178    8,44       9.406    I0.9M        1:.,t
B-  ad IDA Rtios                           1980       1932       1983          4       198      1298
9hAre of total ILT ON (1)
2.I88                                     21.5       I8.L       10.5       29.3       20.5      M9.0
2.1I                                       0.5        0.3        0.2        0.2        4.2       0.2
3.1886.13    '.: .   t lata               22.0       19.1       18.7         .5       20.7      19.8
Share o6 Total ILT fbtt Svice .1)
1. I3D                                    26.3       17.6       137        20.9       19.9      20.1
0.2        0,1        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0
.80.16t1 as t o  total                    2h.4       17.6       11I        21.0       19.9      20.2
000 to fkwts (psin  fit
1. Ufftor1ts                             01y.0      218.7      515.0      259.6      214.3    230.5
Z.  ht-taioe ist4tzwts                    14.4       95.3      103.6       15,        72.1      29.2
'. ILT*V  00     prts                    161,4      324.0      362.5      335.2      37.0    3W.7
On to 6      89
1. IL116O                                 13.8       18.4       21.1       24.b       321       401
2. Slwt-tao 4itwU                          7.0        8O.       8.          1.2        '.3       4.9
S. lLTaSI Mep                             20.8      2MS         29.5       31.1       40.4      45.0
kbtt Srvic4rgrts 9oo)
1. #dlic A  r togi ILI                     8.5       16.0       21.2       23.5       2.6       27.8
2. Priwate  a-Uwutaud                      0.3        3.9        8.2        5.l        1.9       3.1
S  le0s  ILI t SWU   trce                  6.0       20.5       29.4       2A6        29.5      30.9
5. Iat _a.l- t  two dial                   5.2         .4        7.5        8          6.2       4.1
6.  0t181 23T41 1st0                      IS2.       28.        36.9       37.2       357       $3.6



t'UL.U'J1A  EXIEUINAL DE&T INDICATURS
1989       1981        1982        t983       1984        1985        1986
1. Debt   fillitws of Us$)
luteal Debt Ekttt. & Di-b.                        6,956       8,713      10,302      1,409     12,274      14,308      14,419
of whscl FLIA                                  4,598      :i,9S9      /,lhl       0,149      9,406      IU,931      13,t22
Utus  ftasursthfs@t---LT                   10/1.0      I    t//a.(    16b2. 4  1662.00    2041.00    2047.00    2763.00
bebl S1, vice                                     864.70    141t6.4.'   1525.5v    598.04    579.80    1820.20    2352.47
*wter tLa.tiort                                      264         556        408         629         702        '/4)      1,004
le.1..leut P.iymwets                               601         "8"       1,118         969        876       1,070       1,268
v,f wtaicle MLI                                  '09         4b1         7V5         624        670         865         970
lIet Flow (M1Lt disburseJ lons asort)                80J7      I,2SY      1,24b       1,035       1,339       1,297      1,679
2. si P& cerst of (NP
TuhIA  Debt Otits & 1)sb.                          ".9"       z4 14       26.88       30.04      32.99       43.59       45.33
of W131 i I                                     I a.85     16.46       18.Is       21.4d.     25.28       33.32       40.38
Debt S*vice                                        1.61        3.9 W      3.98        4.21        4.25       S.5S        7.29
u* Whichs it,ttegst pa*m.nts                     i.8t       2.44        2.91        2.55       2.36        S.2*        3.93
NsA  f Iis                                          2.43        3.43        $.25       2./2        3.60       3.95        5.20
s.*i Pet 4.e4st. of Exports I
total Debt Outs & Vi-b.                           111.14     363.62      194.56      263.49     259.66      219.26      221.40 
cdf adicit MLT                                  15.67     J11.55       S 1 5.bb   88..2V     198.98     41l.45      197.2t
1)l,t Service                                       1S.96     26.59       28.81       36.91       33.42      35.54       35.63
vIf wich interest payoment                       9.6s      16.5S       21.11       22.38       18.5S      20.89       19.20
NLut Fluws                                         11.94      2S.2/       _3.50       23.86       29.33      23.32       25.42 
4. PeLt Lumt of CM9
1t4 t  Debt Outs & Diab.                         106.69      149.41    185.13      209.63      2'05.so0    256.68        ir.
a#f which MLT                                  70.7-3    1u1.d8       148.9 9     149. 73    15/.71      196.19         no
DWbt Service                                       13.3U      24. 29      27.41       29.-36     26.49       32.67         nc        _
of Wtict interest pdyo.ntC                      9.24       15.2"       1Q.u9 14.80             14.12      t9.20         n-
Net Flows                                          12.42      3I.25       22.36       18.98       22.43      23.29         no
- - - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - --- -- -   --   - - - -- -- -- -- - ---- - - - - -- -- -- -- - -   -- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STAT,EMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLONBIA (as of Sept. 30, 1987)
(US$million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
86 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   2,399.1  23.5 1/    -
1583    1978  Republic of Colombia            Power              50.0              0.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0             0.3
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0              4.9
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6             0.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republics           Industrial Cr.   142.0              10.3
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.7             27.1
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             45.3
1996    1981  Instituto Colombian% de
lidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             6.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica.              Power             34.2              7.9
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power            359.0             46.6
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          3.3             0.9
11 Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 46 -
.%nnex 2
Page 2 of 5
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CRiDITS (as of Sept. 30, 1987)
Nuaber Year Borrower                          Purpose          Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways           77.0            54.6
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional             Highways         149.6            20.9
2174    1982  Republic of Colombia            Rural Develop-
ment            53.0            36.5
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0              6.8
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research         63.4            39.0
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.      Coal
Exploration      9.5             6.8
2379    1984  Republic of Colombia           Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             7.0
2449    1984  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5           133.5
2453    1984  Federacion Nacional de         Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano        diversifi-
cation          50.0            30.6
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.    40.0             6.9
2470    1984 Empresas Municipales
de Cucuta                    Water Supply       18.5            10.8
2476    1984 Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum          130.0            23.0
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica          Development
Banking         90.0            60.7
2512    1985  Empresa Acueducto
Alcantarillo de Bogota         Water Supply      129.0           116.4
2551    1985  Republic of Colombia           Trade Policy
Export Diver-
sification     300.0             0.5
2611    1985 Republic of Colombia            Health Services
Integration     36.5            32.6
2634    1985  Empresas de Energia
Electrica de Bogota          Power             171.0           171.0
2635    1985 Ezpresas Puertos de Colombia   Port Rehabili-
tation           42.8            35.7
2637    1985  Empresas Publicas Municipales Water Supply        24.0            17.2
2667    1986  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                   Irrigation        114.0           110.9



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
A. STAIEMENr OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sept. 30, 1987)
2668    1986 Fondo Nacional de Caminos
Vecinales                    Rural Trans-
port            62.0            57.9
2677    1986 Republic of Colombia             Trade and
Agriculture
Policy         250.0           119.5
2829    1987  Fondo Vial Nacional             2nd HI  way      180.3           180.3
TOTAL                                          5,616.0  23.5
Of which has been repaid                       1,401.7   6.5
Amount sold                    51.0                -
Of which has been repaid                          51.0
Total now outstanding                          4,163.0  17.0
(Exchange Adjustment B-Loans)                       .4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 4,163.0  17.0
Total undisbursed                                              1,393.1



-48 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1987)
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in US$ Illlion
Year                   Obligor                   Business             Loan   ETulty   Total
1959           Latinas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board           .50               .50
1960-1965      Industriss Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products       1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans            .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                    Rome furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical equipment .50       -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financlera            Development
Colombiana                        financing        6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera            Development
Nacional                          financing        6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de            Textiles             1.98    .15      2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing           -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing          1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombians, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textilea            17.75   2.61     20.92
85-86-87
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turiamo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMD)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Norte                             financing           -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Valle                             financing        6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism               .23    .11        .34
Turisao Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boysca, S.A.             Cement               1.50      -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement               3.60      -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                        mining               6.00      -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de lo Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material         0.49   2.24       2.73



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
8. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1987)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing             14.00      .20    14.20
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material         22.52    5.00    27.47
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining               13.14    1.64    14.78
1986           SP/Chucuri                         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals       -    5.00      5.00
1987           Prodesal                           Chemicals and
Petrochemicals   6.00    1.18       7.18
1987           Promotora Gasoducto Centra         Chem & Petrochem               .04       .04
Total Gross Commitments                               140.10   31.41   171.50
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                       104.37    9.60   113.96
Total commitments now held by IFC                      35.73   21.81    57.54
Total undisbursed (including                           20.08    8.96    29.04
participants)                                      2s~   10"



- 50 -
Annex 3A
Page I of 3
-.4" A ,A           AN
Boota, October 15, 1987
Mr. Barber B. Conable
Pr.sident
World Bak
Washington, D.C.
U. 8. A.
Dear Mr. Conable,
Ref. Power Sector Adjustment Loan
The Government of  Colombia  has  requested  a us$300 million loan
from the  World  Bank  to  support  the  power sector's structural
adjustment process.    The  main  objectives  and  actions  of the
program to be carried out, both with the resources from this loan
and with additional financing envisaged for this purpose, have
been  detailed  in  the  policy  statement  on  the  power  sector
adjustment which has been provided to  the D ank by the Minister of
mines and Energy with his  letter  of Septe er 11, 1987 and which
is  fully  endorsed  by  this  Ministry.    ie increase  in  the
efficiency of the Colombian power sector com ,anies, as weli as the
adequate  execution   of   the   country's  current macroeconomic
programming for the 1987-88  poriod,  are  af vital importance for
the  achievement   of   the   related   mac  conomic  objectives,
particularly as regards fiscal  and  externaj1  debt matt-rs. With
the  resources  from  the  loan   requested  from  the  Bank, the
Govornment plans  to  finance  general  imp-rts  required  for the
adequate financing of the economy. On its part, as a contribution
to the financing of the power sector's adjustment program, the
Government  will  transfer  funds  from  the  national  budget  to
strengthen the capital base of the sector's entities (ICEL and
CORELCA) by an amount equivalent of US $,240 million during the
1987-90 period.
Additionally, to the extent that the sector's companies (ICEL
group,  CORELCA  group,  EEEB, EPM,  CVC, iSA  and  BETANIA) are
complying satisfactorily  both  with  their  external debt service
obligations as well as with the semiannual targets set for them in
the  macroeconomic  program   (as   monitord   by  the  Financial
Monitoring Group established for that pu rpose), the Government
will make loans from  the  national  budget  to FEN (and/or to CVC
under a fiduciary, agreement with FEN) in semiannual allotments
equivalent to US$2S 'million during the 1988-9 0 period.



- 51 -
o a
ANM E3A
Page : of 3
In order to provide the context in which the adjustment program of
the ColombLan power sector is set, I am highlighting bolow key
aspects of our macroeconomic program of! the 1987-1988 period,
which are also contained in our document presented to the
international financial community in September 1987 (the Republic
of Colombia, UV, $1,060 million Term Credit Facility, toonomic
InforMation Memorandum).
Eaving   implemented   its   1985-86   adjustment   program,  the
Government's objective now is to consolidate the gains made and to
achieve sustained growth.   As  regards  the external sector, the
main element of our policy is to maintain a competitive real
exchange rate, at least at the level. achieved in 1986, which was a
historical high. Additionally, we will inct*ase credit facilities
for non-traditional exports and expand  and ImaXe more flexible the
Plan Vallejo, thus extending the  free mark t regsme for exorts to
Include indirect exporters.   Import poliot will aim at gradually
ireoving barriers to  imports,  thus  leavl q  tariffs as the main
instrument of protection.   In  order to ma *ntain net internatonal
reserves at a level no lower than the equi ralent of six months of
isporto of goods, or  four months  of  impA rt  of goods and non-
financial services (or about US$3.5 billion}, we will, in addition
to financinq  from  the  World  Bank  and  other  multilateral and
bilateral sources, need to have continued a#cess to funds from the
comercial  banks   in   amounts   roughly   equal   to  scheduled
amortizatin.
Fiscal policy will have as  a  basic  objectiv#  to keep the public
sector deficit at the low levels recently achieved by establishing
machanisms that will provide greater contr l over public spending
and greater flexibility of management. . rhe latter would enable
transfers from public sector enterprises that have surpluses in
order to finance priority investments by the Central Government in
other sectors, particularly social and rura. development.
Monetary policy targets will continue to l,e set so as to ensure
that money supply growth  does  not exceed the projected expansion
of nominal GDP. The yield on forced investments of the financial
system will also continue to be improved as part of planneO
efforts to reduce subsidies in the finanrial sector and to have
remaining  subsidies  reflected  explicitly' in  the  Government's
budget.    Financial   policies   are   also   aimed  at  reducing
fragmentation  in   the   financial   market.        While  existing
imprfections, notably the predominantly' short-term nature of
financial assets, necessitate  intervention, by the aLuthorities in
order to lengthen the maturity structur*, the need for such
Intervention will be redtuced as the fiscal ieasures taken recently
begin to yield positive results in creating a more dynamic capital
market. With a view to attracting domestic and external



- 52 -
-  -                                                    0684
ANNE 3A
Page 3 of 3
dG .SWW.i4' %b%* ^
3&4 AeAf"&"
investment in the banking sector, financial lntermediaries will
continue to be strengthened and capitalized by improving their
profitability.  The Government  has presented draft legislation to
Congress to permit foreign investment in the financial sectors We
will continue to seek foreign capital to supplement domestic
savings and to provido the required technology transfer. For
these reasons, the Government has implemented amendments to the
Andean Pact agreoments that eliminate existing constraints to
foreign investment.
Taking  into  account that,  as  is  well  known by the  Bank's
authorities, the  Government of Colombia  has been carrying out
signLiCant efforts in the programing and execution of the power
seotor's structural adjustment process since 1984, we hope that
the request for this loan will have In early and positive
response.
Yours sincerely,
Luis Fernando Alarcon Mantilla
Minister of Finance and Public Credit



- 53 -
Annex 3 B
Page 1 of 10
September 11, 1987
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.     The Government of Colombia wishes to request a World Bank loan to
support the Power Sector Adjustment Program.
2.     The Power Sector Adjustment Program is framed within the
Government's overall strategy to harmonize planning and future investments
in the electric sector with those of the rest of the energy sector and the
country's macroeconomic programming. In order to achieve this objectit.e
measures are required to resolve the medium term structural problems of an
institutional and financial nature confronting the sector and surmount its
current financial crisis, which is essentially due to the large amounts of
debt service on external loans contracted in the past.
THE POWER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.  Intesral Planning of the Enerat Sector
and the National Energy Commission
3.     The electric sector's current investment and financing program is
consistent with the short and medium-term macroeconomic program (1987-
1900), both as regards global public investment targets and the require-
ments of monetary and foreign exchange stability.
4.     At the same time, the Government is undertaking an effort to ensure
the integrated planning of the energy sector by seeking optimal utilization
of the available resources. A natural gas development program is now under
way in the areas adjacent to the existing gas pipelines (Atlantic Coast,
Santander and Huila) that would extend coverage to 30,000 new users each
year. Medium-term plans envisage expanding natural gas supplies to new
areas (including the city of Bogota) by building new networks for the
transport and distribution of gas which will allow an increase in con-
nections by 50,000 users each year. At the same time, a program is under
way to provide propane gas in the city of Bogota, pending the availability
of natural gas, to 35,000 new users each year. The implementation of this
gas program will enable the substitution of gas for the electricity now



- 54 -                            Annex 3 B
Page 2 of 10
used for cooking and water heating.   It will also provide to industry and
public transport sectors with a fuel that is more economic than oil
products. More intensive use of gas will reduce the demand for electric
power in the medium term, thus slowing the rate of expansion of generating
capacity in the power sector.
S.     With a view to institutionalize this integrated planning process for
the energy sector and to achieve its harmony with macroeconomic goals, the
Government has submitted a draft bill to Congress for the creation of a
National Energy Commission. It would be composed as follows: the Hinister
of Mines and Energy as its chairman; the Chief of the National Planning
Department; the General Manager of Interconexion Electrica S.A.(ISA); the
President of Financiera Electrica Nacional, S.A. (FEN); the President of
Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos; the President of Carbones de Colombia,
S.A.; and the Director of the Institute for Nuclear Affairs. The
Commission would have two top-level advisors and a group of professionals
specialized in the various areas of concern in the energy sector. The
Commission's functions would be: to adopt expansion plans to meet the
country's energy needs at the least economic and social cost; to authorize
energy export programs and projects; to coordinate the preparation of
programs assigned to the energy sector's decentralized agencies; to set
producer prices for natural gas and petroleum products; and to recommend to
the National Tariff Board (Junta Nacional de Tarifas--JNT) adjustments to
power tariff policy to ensure its consistency with price policies for
other fuels.
6.     If this bill were not to be approved by Congress during the current
session, the Government would use its constitutional authority to regulate
Law No. 1 of 1984--which grants broad powers to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy to carry out energy policy--and would take the necessary steps to
strengthen the technical capability of that Ministry.
B. National Tariff Policy
7.     With the issuing of Resolution JNT 086 of 1986, the Government
assumed control of the tariff policy for electric power service by
eliminating the utility companies' discretionary faculty to request and
apply authorized rates. Henceforth the companies must apply the tariff set
by the JNT, based on criteria of efficiency and economic rationale and
social considerations.
8.     Resolution JNT 086 of 1986 set targets  based on the structure of
cost of the service and social considerations. The tariffs for consumers
of all of the power companies will gradually reach these targets . The
targets were determined in accordance with the following criteria:
All consumers who are able to cover the cost of the service
(which includes industrial and commercial users) must pay a
rate that is not lower than the Average Long-Term Marginal
Cost (LTMC), and not higher than 25Z above the LTMC.



- 55 -
Annex 3 B
Page 3 of 10
-     Low-income residential users will be given subsidies based on
their ability to pay and the electricity consumption level to
meet their basic requirements. That level will depend on the
availability of more economic energy to satisfy such
requirements.
9.     The residential tariff structure consists of a fixed charge (which
depends solely on the user's ability to pay) plus a charge for consumption.
The targets for power tariffs are the following:
-     Subsistence consumption (up to 100 kWhlmonth when substitution
possible and up to 200 kWh/month in other cases)--20 to 302 of
LTMC.
-     Basic consumption (the difference between 400 kWh/month and
the
subsistence consumption)--50 to 80S of the LTMC.
-     Intermediate consumption (401 to 800 kWh/month) --90 to 1252
of the LTMC.
-     High consumption (over 801 kWhlmonth) --100 to 125? of the
LTMC.
10.    The fixed charge (which in June 1987 ranged from ColS36.45 per month
for the lowest bracket to Col$1,678.61 for the high bracket) is designed to
ensure that the subsidy implicit in the lowest consumer blocks goes to
lower income households only.
11.    The subsistence consumption block was set on the basis of national
statistics on consumption by strata (170 kWh/month fcr the lowest stratum
and 235 kWh/month for the low stratum). However, since in most urban
centers there currently is no sufficient supply of propane or natural gas
to meet basic cooking and water heating needs, users in the lower strata
are obliged to use electricity and gasoline--cocinol--(Bogota) to meet
their basic requirements. As the gas program now being carried out by the
Government moves nearest to a level of 85Z coverage in a given urban
center, the subsistence consumption level will be gradually reduced to 100
kWh/month. Prior to June 30, 1988, the Government will define the
timetables for reaching these levels of coverage in the country's major
cities and the criteria for adjusting the subsistence consumption level.
12.    To maintain the real level of tariffs, monthly adjustments will be
made using the following indicators as a basist
-     Residential rates: annual increases at a level equivalent to
increases in the minimum wage level.
-     Non-residential rates:  annual increases at a level equivalent
to increases in the national index of costs for the supply of
electric power.
13.    In addition to the foregoing monthly adjustments, whenever necessary
to reach the tariff levels above mentioned, additional adjustments would



- 56 -
Annex 3 B
Page 4 of 10
also be made of 42 per annum in the residential sector and 52 per annut in
the non-residential categories. This would ensure that the targets set
would be gradually reached in all of the sector companies and for all
consumption levels, without serious social traumatisms that would cause a
reversal of the tariff policy.
14.    Resolution JNT 086 of 1986 established a 20t reduction from the full
rate for public education and health establishment as well as water supply
and sewerage companies and irrigation and pumping systems, provided that
they are up-to-date on payment of their power bills or have signed payment
agreements to settle any amounts owed. Power sector companies also have
been authorized to enter into special agreements with industries with self-
generating equipment that would be willing to purchase electric power
instead of using their own facilities.
15.    To implement the tariff policy embodied in Resolution 086, the JNT
has issued resolutions for each of the power sector companies, defining the
tariffs and the corresponding specific rate adjustments. It also has
established a set of norms to improve companies' billing procedures and has
explicitly prohibited exemptions from payment for electricity.
16.    In the case of the Atlantic Coast power companies, the surcharge
paid by final consumers that accrued to CORELCA was eliminated and an
equivalent amount was included in the rates for industry and commerce, as
well as residential users of more than 400 kwh/month, to bring those
charges in line with the national tariff system.
17.    In the case of Bogota, a gradual process was initiated to unify its
tariff structure with the one applicable to the rest of the country. For
residential consumption a izei charge equivalent to 50? of the national
fixed charge was introduced; this charge will be raised to 75? in 1988 and
1002 in 1989. In order to make feasible the shift from the old to the new
structure, it was necessary to introduce a special consumption category
ranging from 200 to 300 kWh/month which will gradually be phased out before
1993. By that year the minimum levels of Resolution 86 will be applied for
the subsistence and basic consumption blocks. It is expected that by that
time the above mentioned gas program for Bogota would have been imple-
mented. The reductions required in non-residential tariffs to reach the
tariff targets will be effected in such a way as to preserve the company's
overall revenues in real terms.
18.    The resolutions established a system of differential rates for bulk
power sales by ICEL and CORELCA to the power companies of their group,
aimed at equalizing the companies' distribution margins.
19.    To facilitate the implementation of measures designed to improve the
sector's institutional setup and eliminate the discontent caused by tariff
differences in comparable areas, the implementation of a program to unify
tariffs among regions, while maintaining the general guidelines established
in Resolution JNT 086 of 1986, is envisaged.



- 57 -
Annex 3 B
Page 5 of 10
C. Strenathening of the Weaker Companies
20.    In accordance with the administrative and fiscal decentralization
policy initiated by the country, mechanisms have been devised to associate
the departments and municipalities with the development of the departmental
power companies through an increase in their shareholdings. The program for
capitalization of the power companies will be carried out with the
following resources:
(a)   Departmental contributions established by Law 23 of 1986
(stamF tax for rural electrification).
(b)   Contributions from departments that receive royalties from oil
and other natural resources (Arauca, Guajira, Casanare and
Huila).
(c)   Contributions by municipalities with additional resources
generated by Law 12 of 1986.
(d)   Contributions from the stronger companies in the sector,
through direct capitalization or execution of priori' -orks
in their territories, which would then be turned over to the
respective departmental companies in exchange for stock.
(e)   Stock participation by other entities, such as the National
Coffee Growers Federation.
(f)   Valuation and capitalization of investments in rural electri-
fication and integrated rural development projects that have
been completed.
(g)   Incorporation in the financial balance sheets of assets
transferred by urban developers.
21.    With a view to obtaining economies of scale and improved technical
and administrative efficiency, programs have been initiated for cooperation
between neighboring companies through the creation of planning and pur-
chasing committees and the exchange of experiences and information.
Studies were also completed to define financial rehabilitation programs for
companies of the ICEL and CORELCA groups. Contracts are now being let for
studies to improve the financial and administrative organization of these
companies and of the EUEB (Annex 1 contains the action plan designed to
achieve the financial rehabilitation of the ICEL and CORELCA companies for
which the Government will make budget transfers of US$240 million
equivalent during 1987-1990 to strengthen their capital base).



- 58 -
Annex 3 B
Page 6 of 10
D. The Investment Proaram
22.    The present power development policy implies a shift of emphasis in
the nature of the sector's investments, by directing them primarily to
transmission, subtransmission and distribution works. This will not only
increase the coverage and quality of power service but also restore the
balance between the generation and the distribution infrastructure.
23.    Accordingly, sector investments will concentrate on the following
areas:
Rural electrification.
Improvements in the quality of power service and reduction in
power losses in urban centers.
-     Strengthening of transmission systems.
-     Completion of power generation projects currently under
construction.
It is to be noted that on the basis of current demand growth projections
there would be no need to start new generation projects during the next
three years, since excess power generation capacity is expected to be
available until at least 1994.
24.    As a result of the above mentioned program the sector's investment
level would be reduced significantly from US$1,200 per annum between 1980
and 1984 to an annual average of US$525 million over the 1987-1900 period.
This reduction will permit increased investment in other priority sectors
defined in the Barco Administration's development strategy without causing
unduly high levels of overall public investment.
25.    The rural electrification program includes the execution of the
Second National Electrification Plan of ICEL, and the second stage of the
CORELCA PERCAS program with a target of providing power to 212,000
dwellings. Other programs will be executed by EEB and other government
agencies. Based on these plans, the country's rural power service coverage
will rise from 26.42 at the end of 1986 to 401 by 1991.
26.    Urban subtransmission and distribution programs will be carried out
by EEEB, EPM, CVC and ICEL and CORELCA. In addition, the National Program
for Loss Reduction and-Improved Urban Service (FEN-IDB) will be
implemented.



- 59 -                                Annex 3 B
Page 7 of 16
27.    The following transmission projects will be undertaken:
Company                  Project
EEEB-ISA                 Guavio-Villavicencio-Bogota 1I
ICEL (CHB)               Betania-Popayan (commissioning)
ICEL                     Popayan-Pasto
ISA                      Cerromatoso-Uraba (tentative)
ISA                      San Carlos-Sabanalarga, 2nd circuit
ISA                      Ancon Sur-Esmeralda
ISA                      San Carlos-Barranca
ISA                      Betania-lbague
ISA                      Bucarsmanga-Arauca
ISA                      La Mesa-Ibague
ICEL                     Bucaramanga-Ocana-Cucuta
CORELCA                  Sabanalarga-Fundacion
CORELCA                  Valledupar-Cuestecita
CORELCA                  Chinu-Monteria
CORELCA                  Barranquilla transmission
C-EC                     Esmeralda-La Hermosa
ESSA                     Barranca-Bucaramanga
CVC                      Pasto-Tumaco
I Included in connection with the Guavio project.
28.    The timetable for the completion of the generation projects now
under construction is as follows:
Plant                  Year of Start-Up
Termoguajira II                 1987
Playas                          1988
Riogrande IT                    1991
Guavio                          1992
29.    Given the size of the investment and the dimensions of the Guavio
project, the economic implications of its postponement will continue to be
analyzed. The Assembly of ISA recently approved a redistribution of the
participation of the various companies in this project to achieve a better
balance between the companies" power generation capacity and the power
demand requirements. Annex 2 shows the action program established for the
satisfactory completion of this project.
30.    In order to achieve a harmonious development of the power sector and
to guarantee the execution of the least-cost plans, the Government has
established as a general policy that generating plants with an installed
capacity of more than 100 MW will be owned by ISA (with exception of the
Urra I project). In order to utilize the sector's technical and



- 60 -                              Annex 3 B
Page 8 of 10
administrative capacity ISA may be allowed to sub-contract the construction
of now plants to its member companies while retaining control over major
decisions. By the same token. it may also be allowed to s.b-contract the
future operation of those plants. Such delegations must be approved by the
Government.
31.    The ISA Board of Directors has decided that ownership of new trans-
mission lines will be governed by the following criteria: (a) all lines
required for the connection of a generation project will be considered part
of the project; (b) ISA will own all interconnection lines between the
areas of its member companies; and (c) all lines between regions of the
same market will be owned by the company responsible for that market.
32.    The evaluation, development and execution of new generation and
transmission projects will take into account all aspects related to
environmental ctaservation and to the timely solution of any possible
social problems that may arise. In the specific case of the Chivor project
area, and as a part of its program on this matter, ISA will reforest all
the land under its property and will take the necessary steps towards
promoting the reforestation of the rest of the project's basin. In the
case of hydroelectric projects uses different from power generation will be
taken into account.
33.    On the basis of criteria mentioned above, the adjustment program
affects, anong others, projects supported by the World Bank, such as Guavio
and Bogota Distribution II, for which agreements exist to reprogram the
investments and hence the external loans associated with them.1
E. Administrative Matters
34.    The Government will require the following specific actions from
power companies in order to increase the internal generation of funds:
-     Increased collection through effective reduction and control
of electric power losses, especially those resulting from
fraud (the estimated goals are described in Annex 3).
-     Portfolio recovery through effective action to pay the debts
of national agencies (Annex 4 contains details of this
program);
I/  In the case of the Bogota Distribution It project, the reprogramming
agreement envisages an amendment to the loan agreement in which the
following should be established: (a) a second tranche of disbursements
to be effected from 1991 for amounts in excess of the first $85.5
million; (b) a condition by which the resources associated with the
second tranche disbursements cannot be utilized if EEEB has not
adequately complied with its undertakings in connection with the power
sector adjustment program.



- 61 -
Annex 3 B
Page 9 of 10
-     Control and stabilization of administrative and operating
costs with the aim that in total they would not increase in
real terms; and
-     Sale of excess power to industry through temporary promotional
rates for incremental consumption that would not have taken
place at the full tariff.
35.    In order to guarantee the success of the Sector Adjustment Program,
the Government has strengthened the mechanisms for administrative and
financial control of the companies. In addition to the conditions
established by law for the negotiations of new debt operations and the
requirement that they be up-to-date in the payment of their obligations to
be entitled to FEN disbursements, the CONPES has approved the establishment
of a Sectoral Monitoring Conmittee, comprising of the Ministry of Mlnes and
Energy, the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and the National Planning
Department. This Committee will monitor on a regular basis each company's
execution of the budget and compliance with the expenditure program ap-
proved for each fiscal year. This Comdittee receives the technical support
of FEN. In addition the Ministry of Mines and Energy has appointed
officials of the Ministry as its representatives on the boards of directors
of departmental power companies, with precise guidelines to ensure the
accomplishment of the goals set in the adjustment program. These officials
will act in close coordination with the aforementioned Monitoring
ComGittee.
36.    To ensure efficient sector planning, the Ministry has made
Financiera Electrice Nacional responsible for financial planning and
institutional studies, while Interconexion Electrica S.A. has been given
responsibility for the technical matters of generation, and transmission
and the coordination of distribution programs.
F. Sector Loan Operation
3?.    The financial outlook for the sector during the next four years
indicates the need to ensure external financing for the companies amounting
to approximately US$1,330 million, in addition to loans that have already
been negotiated. Further needs will be covered by internal savings, to
which end the Goverrment will adopt measures enabling the FEN to capture
such resources in the domestic market. Annex 5 presents the sector invest-
ment and financing plan for the period 1987-90.
38.    The Goverment has defined an external financing strategy with
multilateral lnstitutions, private institutions and bilateral export credit
agencies. The power sector loan that the Government requests from the
World Bank is part of this financing package.



- 62 -
Annex 3 B
Page 10 of 10
39.    In addition to the abovementioned national budget contributions
(equivalent to an annual average of US$60 million) to ICEL and CORELCA over
the 1987-1990 period, to the extent that power companies comply satis-
factorily both with their external debt commitments as well as with the
semiannual targets set for them in the macroeconomic program (as monitored
by the Financial Monitoring Group established for that purpose), the
Government will make loans from the national budget to FEN--and to CVC
under a fiduciary agreement with FEN--in semiannual allotments equivalent
to US$25 million over the 1988-1990 period. To that end, and prior to the
signature of the loan agreement with the World Bank. ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC,
ICEL and CORELCA will sign formal agreements with the Government accepting
the commitments incumbent upon them under the Sectoral Adjustment Program
supported by the World Bank loan.
Yours truly,
(signed)
Guillermo Perry Rubio
Minister of Mines and Energy
Attachments
Attachment 1: ICEL (lB) and CORELCA (1B) Actions Plans
Attachment 2: Guavio Action Program
Attachment 3: Electric Losses Reduction Plan
Attachment 4: Public Debt Reduction Plan
Attachment 5: 1987-90 Investment and Financing Plan



- 63 -
cOLOI9BI                                           ArTlAClIIIT I A
CORELCA-CTIGI PLAN                                        PA"  I of 2
POLICY  1tEA               OECTIVE                      ACTiW                       DATE6              EiTITY RESPIUSILE
A. Institutional          ukfie long-two policy  tPrepre  bnic decumnt   lnecueber31,1987                  lIR                        I
'an  Institutional uttinqldefining 60vernnnt and                                 t 
Sor th  Atlantic cant   Irieinal okctivus for  I                                                            I S
Idectafi*Cation            cILCA and its else-    I                                                         I
:  Itrificadwas.                                      '                          I
ileprov  mnagent perforlPrepare  anagmnt              lReady Oct.31 1I8(EIct. )ICORELCA nd Elctrlficaiot
hence,                     hieprovent action plan, 1and Febr.28,IIBY(CORELCAtIras.IConsultant.              I
S                          toninincludingi            I                          titoriog by ,lhE    I
-perforance indicatorslI
( see note beldow         :
I -inforetimn  vts It
S. Fincial                 improve financial situ-  llftevio  block tariffs   lVearly, in June.            IJT/SAICcA
tat mn throug  rate in-   Ibetwn  ISA.CORELCA and  t                             IELECTRIFICDWRAS
,cras and restructa-   delectrificadaras.
,rnag.                                                                                                      |
2ibiStudy and applv        Start Dhc.1t9E1            lElectrificadoras.         I
Isocial stratification    lEnd hC.30.1918             I
a                          acViteria in Sin Cilttes. 
IcdDeck tariff levels    lEvery year (June)           IJNTDll
I'omarued with Res.0 8                                t
'and LROIC Iv e l                                                                a
lbcomr accounts rem-  1afrou Private  etort                                                                 I
vblo to ioprove              -Publicity cauaijn.    IStart Fhb..t19M8            CORELCAiElctrifac4d.U 
ifinancial situation.      I                          a
I S                          -Increase cras for        Stat Dec. .1987           IElQCtrificadoras          t
I disconnectinq delayed    
:                          :                          :                          a:
t -Discontinue speial    IStart 9ec.1,1907            ICljRELCA/ElectriEicadrwa  I
I                          t rates (pumping) to       I                          a
t   delaved consurs        I                           
1-Tentative joint billing IStart  ca.1187            I
t for pOINt                                         COMECA/Eictrificadora  I
a                   a~~~~~~~ and teli pbon  cm                              
I dtlphea consa-                                                            :  
I   ers ine lKted areas I                             I
11bifroo Public sctort                                                           I
I -through coebined actionlStarted in Sept.1987       IREIIHCP,El ctri ficadors
a  of ama .Dhpartumntes  afuw actions omen  necessa-IDepartamentes au
a nd Nunicipias.           Iry.                       Iflunscapios               2
I  (e.e Rosolution 03M1) 
Secure rneourcs for        aicreate Rural Electrufi-16tat Feb.l,1988             lState(Oepartuants)        I
2gw  nvetents               cation Ste.               at                          Hooislators.
a                          aUI)pitalize electrifiuc-2Depends on basic dwcu-   IO'eartienteos afnicipias a
dores through desprta-    ulnt.Ss A aboviM MC&RC
Ia  tos and municipalities 
Iwrove rate base           Iclincorporate asuts       6Start Jan.l,119S          2CIELCAIELECTRUIFICAIRS
a built by ne  suscibers
as provided per Dec.2545I
C.tlectric Loess          tRduce theft and tchmn- lalincrease installation  Iltart Ct.1,a 117             IElectrificadoris
control.                Ical loes                  lof uters in slected                                                             I
a                          l r"s.                     I                          a                          a
II41                                                  a
lbidlscontinue the 'estimalSturt kt..197.             IEleCttrificadora
I                          Ited billing' systne       t                                                     I



- 64-
PICY AEA                   OUECTIVE                    ACTIMNS                   DPATES               ENltTY IIISISIE
*                         :                          4                         I                          I
C.EIctric Losses          Ibe*se thet and tecni- I)6reater  fficiency in   Start 1.1.8                   JEIectraficuduras
Control.               lCl losse                  bapplyinq  anctions for   f                          *
ifrOUIVlent ConnKctsan t
td)e"alize exist:n        IStert Jan.l8O            IEIctrificador             t
I                         Iconnections in low        t                                                    I
I nco  aras.
lellntr"se  personnel to  IStart Oct.1.8i            J
Isonitor th*ft reduction  5                                                    t
Itnd detection of                                    1                         1
'frwadulent eters. 
if ePluumnt losses        IReouce losI s accordinq  IElectrificadoras.
Ireduction prowras         to establsuhed iarly
'                                      I~~~~~~      ~      ~     ~~~~tarqets.    
:                         I                                                                               1  
llu!lemmtation of         6tut Jan.1988.            IEIectrafacgaon.at
I public transformersO foul                          I
Ho1w income consumrs in  ;
selected    ss.                                      J                         t
0 Investant Policy       1ftationalization of       IReview annually         IJearly, in January.        ICORELCA, AlP. IPIE        t
investunts.               Ithe Costa Atlantic& 
linvestment prowram for
11                                     I                          IEIKtnficidwas~~~~~~~~aa 
No     tefihea next indiator                         I t
:                         ala 1                                                :
a   c                                                a :                       : 
a                       a                            a 18:
:                         a                          a                         a                          a
a                         a                          :                         :                          a
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :                                                        a : 
!                         a                          a                         at
a                                                                         
a                         Itntr                      I                         I                          I
aEetrct  uvn               auict  caainfr Itt a   9CtOE
L.Othr      ILlminat  pric  dastor   Rata     onaefulsubsidon                                EleftntrpafifradoruN
* lote  le fn  cse Uti rc   eiaons.Igs tor h           CORLCA         plouoao ie March 88f
thc  Pla  ICotpl  with oa fn ntierC  Ijpeh S ltn  reluaion h    Sar en..18 11RLACnslat
tilbtes ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    la  fle  aset  andn tiEnd Oec.3.198 Ib.2ect 11;f19audora
theiniatr  wl  o  ol_at   h neviuon ofl  th                      Iq79
ictor I   Electraat P  aigregrut.apag   or ItrtJn 18                                      COE~ 



- 65 -
EGLONDA                                            ATTOISUT I I
ICEL-ACTION PLAN                                         pap  I of 2
PILICy ilEA                 ONECTIVE                    ACTIONS                     DATES               ENTITY REBMI.LE
a                          a                          :                          a                          I
A. Institutioal           IDtfine long-tere policr  frepare basic daocunt    Deceew3I,1t97.                      D r, aumtos          I
fand institutional stt ngld.fainig 6overnent t                                   I                          f
fof thb  10E  Ireoi.       lobjective  for the ICEL  I                           I                          I
l                         fgroup                      I                          I                          I
tleprove   agnnnt pwrforlPrepare eanagent             IRe4dy Oct.3l 1988(Ectr)tlCEL  nd Electrificad.   I
'ence.                     fiiprovnt  ction plan, land Febr.28,S90(ICEL)   Iras./Cmnsultants.
lincludinqt                                          Mo:nitoring by WP'll Ib 
-perforance indiuatort.I                                                       I
( I        note belou} 
-inforetion systees s                              f
B. Finatial               fllprove financial situ-  latevisw block tariffs    Yuearly, in Januy.           IllPlltilCLEL              I
lation through rate in-   Ibetiwn ISA,ICEL and        1                          IELECTRIFICANRM.           I
Icrem  and retructuring  tlKctrificdaroas.            I
lblStudy and  pply soci-   Stut hec   1987             EluCtrificadorat.
fal stratificat ion cri-   fEnd Dec.3S1l  m
ftsria in main cities.                                '
I                          a                                                     I             
IdcCheck tariff levels     Every year (June)          IJNTDR                     I
1compare  with Res.086    1
Iand LIIC lSvols
Incoer accounts rKcei-  Iaifro  Private wctor:   1                               I
lvable to iero V           1-Publicity caupaign.       Start Feb.l11988           ICEL/Electrlficadoas    I
Suinancihl situation.     I                           
I -Increase crews for      Start Dec.11987           IICELIElectrificadwas    I
I disconnecting delayed                               I
*~~~                a     s en                              I                                        I
*                  . ~~~~~~consiusrs.
:                          a                          a                          I                          :
IDiscontinue spcial    Itart Dec. I 1987             ICEL/EIKetrificadoras     I
I rates (pumping) to       I                                                     I
I delayed consuurs                                                               I
1-u ntativ  joint billing   tarut Oec.1.198t
a                  ~~I for poUI                I                           IE/Ictiia
fa                                               hlCUELlKetrificdadras    I
and teoleophtne consu-I
aers in ulect d ucas t
1Ifrom Public sector:    I
I -through combined actioniStarted in S6et.197        I WEMNlC El  ctrif:catersl
a  of IMLCPWparctaentos  IMew actions omen necussa-leDpartaentoa and hri-  I
I                          . and sunicipic.           lry.                       tCipiWs.
e4.g.flesolution  033241a
'Secure rneource  for      latcreate Rural Electrifi-iStart Feb.1,1988           Okpartautal Legislati
ns instnts                 ! cation Stuap.
iblcapitalize electrifica-iDepends on basic                 ****  euicipios
idoras through doparta-   Wdocuuent.6Qc A above.   *                             I
*                          talenLs and eun:iuplities                             a                          I
a                   a                          a~~~oetg  n
Improve rate base          tlincorporate assets       Itart JAn.1986             tICELIEI trifcdorn.   I
I                          I built by new subscabers                                                        t a
I as provided per OK.2545:
C.EIKtric Los             IReduce theft and techni- iaeincrease installation  IStart Jan.18S               1ElCctrificadOri
lprovement             Ical loses                 of eteros in selecte                                                             I
areas.                                                                          I
bhdiscontinue the Oestia.1Start Jan.1,8               lEI ctr:ficadoru           I
.ted bililf"Q systeo



-  66                                              ATTAClENT I I
Pap 2 of 2
POLICY A6M                  OlJECTIVE                    ACTIONS                     DATES               ENTITY 8ESPOfMI.E
C.Electric Losrs           Rtdoce theft and techni- iclgreater efficimccy in  iStart 1.1.88                 iEIKctrificadorns           i
Cutrol                  lc; losse                  lapplyinf  eanctions for   I                                                      S
I fraudulent connections                              I
Mdloqelizu  existing       ;Start Jmn.1,88            MElectraficadora#           J
Ccomntctions in low        I                          t                           I
I                   11~~~~~~~.ncoee area.       .                           
I                          .ellncrease personnel to  tStart Jan.1.88                                         1
lIonitor theft reduction  I
'and detection of         I,
I                          1 fraudulent meters.       I 
I  tiloplesent reduction    .Reduce losses according  IElectrficadoras.
1 .prowrm                  Ito yearly I stablished    I
i tarets                   I
" I                                                   ;                           . a
I                            t r                                                  I :
I                          I                                                      I                          I,
D.Investuent Policy       IRationalization of         IRevsen annually ICELs    IStart Jan.l,198 ,ith    JICELonIE tntPI
nvestmmnh.                  investIent prorrav  f or   lannual rv ision of the   IKectrificadoras
lIthe next 4 o ears.       hnvestamnt progr           I
*                          .                          S                           a                          a
I                          I                          I                           I 
I                          I                          I                           t
I                          I                          I                           I
I                          I                          I                           5 o
NO tesher     Pefoexpendicaor  frJ  the rC.  forcu thareu th  follovisivoitt   y I/OI
*                          aOhratin                   I                           *                          S
X~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                              I                                        S 
fall tkk  ti forw * rWate bacuprio  Finanier  del tiCEhr   Intorse Fianl,18                  lE  Cnlat
*  if19C                       a 2..2pge4
Ik           iate          Ito  ersel adi s           Ir                            E     trificdora 
kcut  Paybl            fuid o 2      n3t5 and 2. pae45ad4
Finamcia  Pre trmanc  iC nnor        e the   pas a    I :22n e   y
SKtor lnmtmmt Progras.~ ~~lthr atins.a 
Itlarove rte baine         IulEKmin  crieriaig for    IStart Jan.l,188            IICELCostas
unhg r oevalatonw   lto:Electrificadoras
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* :
* IIOet 1"  hrfosnte adia      ao ah   c   iw    retetloi
tal thn   ro*Prg    lQRcption fntnci t es              lHItre   i
11.~ ~ ~~ aure  80a 80o    aq   o  4
anrs    u              Cuadroin3. power cosmtinsae;!cao
aNtaThwe Pefrac ndicators        follte rvid atet the Grureviino the follornn
falltakennt t f o Proqranad   eueainFnnir   oIE'IfreFni



- 67 -
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 5
GUAVIO PROGRAM
Financing elan
The financing plan for the Guavio Project has been duly incorporated
in the financing plan for the entire sector. (See Table 2-1).
Project management and organization
To ensure successful completion of the project, its organization and
management have been reviewed and strengthened, with EEEB remaining in charge
of budgeting and supervision of works programing.
In addition, ISA now has an official role in project supervision,
through reactivation of the Technical Committee. With a view to making an
exhaustive review of the programming and budgeting aspects, two specialists
have been hired through Planeaci6n Nacional and Fonade, to serve as a team
of independent external consultants for EEEB. They will submit a report by
January 31, 1988.
EEEB has completed the project management organization proposals,
which include the functions and responsibilities of the various entities
connected with project execution, and of the executing agents. EEEB will have
the new organization fully in place by October 31, 1987.
Environmental protection and resettlement program
Specific actions are to be taken to minimize any negative impacts of
the project on the physical and social environment.
INDERENA, Colombia's agency for natural resource management, has
asked the Empresa to prepare environmental studies regarding concessions for
the use of water from the Guavio Hydroelectric Project.
The principal actions to be studied were: the hydrological study,
treatment of sterile materials, solid waste disposal, variants* highway safety
and signaling, industrial safety, reservoir cleaning, basin organization and
management plan, socio-economic studies.
In general, the Empresa has acted on the majority of the
recommendations of the studies mentioned, and is currently proceeding with
those still outstanding, such as reservoir cleaning and the basin organization
and management plan.
Translator's note: punctuation omitted in original text.



- 68 -
Attacbmeat 2
Page 2 of 5
The Empresa has also carried out supplementary studies, such as a
manual for entry into service and operation of the reservoir, the hydrological
study, the reservoir-filling plan, and a study of morphology and deterioration
of the Guavio River channel downstream from the dam.
With respect to the handling of the region's ecological and social
problems, much more specific participation has now been assigned to the
Cundinamarca departmental authororities and agencies, in addition to which the
following immediate actions have been decided, based on the studies carried
out by the Empresa, various consultants, and CIDER, of the Universidad de
los Andes.
(a) continue the basin organization and management plan which led to the
reforestation of 157 ha in 1987 and is expected to reforest a
further 200 ha in 1988;
(b) prepare a reservoir cleaning program by March 31, 1988;
(c) prepare a program to complete the resettlement of families affected
by the dam, specifying the form of compensation and assistance
planned for families relocated by December 31, 1987;
(d) establish a unit within the Empresa to handle relations with the
community, by October 31, 1987. This unit will consist of two
professionals and two assistants;
(e) prepare a regional development plan for the municipalities of
Gacheta, Ubala, Gachala, Gama and Junin, ensuring compatibility of
objectives between the community and the Empresa;
(f) prepare six-monthly progress reports on execution of the
above-mentioned plans and on monitoring of the resettlement of the
affected families, with pertinent statistical data.



- 69 -
Attachmet 2
Page 3 of 5
TABLE 2-1
September 10, 1987
Ref.: FINGUAV
Guavio Hydroelectric  Proieot
inancing Plan 1987-1992
(in US$ millions)
1W?A    1188      119     IsgO      1991     II    total
Direct investment                           149.6    154.0   114.6    61.3    68.9    40.2   589.9
IDC existing  loans                         64.5    80.7    83.1    81.4        74.1     41.1    425.7
Total investment                            214.1   235.5    197.7    143.2   143.0    02.1  1015.6
Shareholder contributions
EPM                                   2.2       3.7      3.9      3.6      3.9      2.6     19.1
CYC                                   13.1     23.3    24.1    22.2    24.2        16.0   123.5
ICEL                                  14.3    24.3    25.0    23.1    25.2         16.6    128.4
CORELCA                               13.7    23.3    24.1    22.2        24.2     16.0   123.4
Total contributions                          43.9    74.6    77.1    7t.0        77.4     51.2    395.2
Existing  loans                             141.6     10.1    21.3    18.1    16.8    24.1    m.
Future  loans secured                         5.5    15.0      23.8    19.0       0.1      0.0     71.4
EEEB own  funds                              23.1    75.2    15.5    35.1    40.7          6.0   255.6
Total sources                               214.1   235.5    197.7   143.2   143.0    82.1  1015.6
Compensation
EPM                                             1.6      0.8
CYC                                            18.6      8.
ICEL                                            7.2      3.4
CORELCA                                         IA.6     1.4
Total                                                  47.0    22.5



- 70 _                                          Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
TABLE  2-1
September 10, 1987
Ref.: FINGUAV
Guavio Hydroelectric Project
Financing Plan 1987-1992
(in US$ millions)
Financing of contributions by each Guavio shareholder company
1187     1888     189       190      191       1992   total
EPM
Contributions  and  compensation                         '.2       S.;      4.7       3.6      3.9       2.6     2'.3
Interest                                                 0.0      0.3       0.6      0.8       1.2      1.4       4.3
Total                                                    '.        5.6      5.3       4.4      S.t       4.0     :6.6
IDB  loan                                                0.0      3.4       L.8      0.9       3.5      3.0      12. 6
Contribs. and  comp.                              0.0      3.2       1.4      0.4       '.       2.        4.8
Interest                                         0.0       n,,      0.4       0.5      0.a       0.i      2.8
IBRD  loan/Com. Govt.                                    0.0      1.7       1.7      0.3       1.6       1.0      6.3
Contribs. and  comp.                             0.0       1.6       1.5      0.0                0.5       4.8
Interest                                         0.0       0.1      0.2       0.3      0.4       0.5      1.5
Own  funds                                               2.2      0.5       1.8      3.2       0.0       3.0      7.1
Total sources                                            L         5.6      5.3       4.4      5.1       4.0     26.6
cvC
Contribs. and  comp.                                    13.'     41.9      33.0     :2.2      :4.2      ;6.0   1I5.0
Interest                                                 1.0    : 6         7.2      1.5      1.M      13.?      47.8
Total                                                    4.1     45.5      40.2     3.1?      '-7.0    29.7    198.8
IDB  loan                                                0.5     33.1      28.2     14.5      .5.1     21.8    123.7
Contribs.  and  comp.                            0.0      23.9     23.6       8.1     16.8      12.8     93.,
Interest                                         0.5       2.0      4.6       6.1      8.3       3.0     30.5
IBRD  loan/Com. Govt.                                   10.3     11.6      12.0     11.8      11.9      7.9      65.5
Contribs.  and  comp.                            9.8      10.0      9.4       8.4      7.4       3.'     48.2
Interest                                         0.5       1.6      2.6       3.4      4.5       4.'     17.;
Own  funds                                               3.3      0.0       0.0      S .       0.0      0.0       9.6
Total sources                                           14.7     45.5      40.2     3;.,7      7.0     21.7    198.8
ICEL
Contribs. and  comp.                                    14.2     31.4      28.4     23.1      25.2      16.6    133.9
Interest                                                 1.0      3.6      6.3       8.8      12.4     13.5     45.6
Total                                                   15.2     35.0     34.7      31.9      37.6     30.1    184.5
IDB  loan                                               3.1      22.8     22.2      19.6     25.2      2t.8    11'.5
Contribs. and  comp.                             3.4      21.0     18.6      14.4     17.       13.3     88.2
Interest                                         8.5      1.8       3.6      5.2       7.7      8.5      2?.3
IBRD  loan/Cor. Govt.                                  11.3      12.2     12.5      1. 3     1s.4       8.3     69.0
Contribs. and  cornp.                           10.8      10.4      9.8       8.7      7.        3.3     50.7
Interest                                         0.5      1.8       2.7      3.6       4.7      5.0      18.3
Own  funds                                              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       '.0      0.0       0.0
Total sources                                           15.2     35.0     34.?      31.1      37.6     30.1    134.5



- 71 -
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 5
l981      1188      1"89      19"        1191      I 91    Total
CORELCA                                                   13.7      42.9       33.5      22.2      24.2       16.0    152.5
Contribs.  and  comp.                                      1.0       4.1        7.2       9.0      12,0       13.0      46.3
Interest                                                  14.7      47.0      40.7       31.2      36.2      t9.0    199.8
Total                                                      3.8      35.2       I9.1       8.3      24.1       20.8    tll.3
IDB  loan                                                  3.3      3'.9      14.6        2.9      16.8      12.8      83.3
Contribs.  and  comp.                              0.5       2.3        4.5       5.4       7.3       8.0       28.0
Interest                                          10.9      II.8      12.1       12.0      12.1       8.2      67.1
IBRD  loan/Comn.  Govt.                                   10.4      10.0        9.4       8.4       1.4        3.2      48.8
Contribs.  and  comp.                              0.         18        2.7       3.6       4.7        S.0      18.3
Interest                                           L,.0     00         ,         109                00       20.4
Own  funds                                                 14.7      47.0      40.7      31.2      36.2       29.0    l".8
Total sources
TOTAL
Contribs.  and  comp.                                    43.8      121.5      99.6      71.1       77.5      51.2    464.7
Interest                                                  3.0      11.6       21.3      28.1      38.4       41.6     144.0
Total                                                    46.9     133.1    l0.9         ".2       1tS.9      92.8    e0.7
IDB  loan                                                 8.2      95.3       71.3      43.0      17.9       67.4     363.1
Contribs.  and  comp.                             6.7      69.0       58.2      25.8      53.8       41.0    274.5
Interest                                          1.5       6.3      13.1       17.2     .'4.1       26.4      88.6
IBRD  loan/Com.  Govt.                                   32.5      37.3       30.3      36.4      39.0       25.4     "01.9
Contribs.  and  comp.                            3l.0      32.0       30.l      25.5      23.7       to.      .52.5
Interest                                          1.5       5.3       8.2       10.9      14.3       15.2      55.4
Own  funds                                                6.1       O.J       11.3      11.8        0.0       0.0      37.7
Total  sources                                           46.9    li3.1    120.9         99.2     lII.3       92.8    C09.7



- 72 -
Attecbuent 3
Electrtc Lo8ses Reduction NLa
Losses Forecast for the Power Sector
Energv Lost/Enerar Generated
A) COUNTRY
Year
1986                                  23.9
1987                                  23.8
1988                                  23.0
1989                                  21.9
1990                                  21.1
1991                                   20.1
1992                                   19.2
B) UTILITIES TARGETS
1986     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992
EEEB a/   24.7     24.6     21.0      18.0     16.0     14.0      13.0
EPM bl    21.2     21.2     21.2      20.6     20.1     19.6      19.1
cYC c/    17.7     17.7      17.7     17.4     17.0     16.6      16.2
ICEL      24.0     24.0     24.0      23.3     22.7     21.9     21.0
CORELCA   23.1     23.1     23.1      22.6     22.1     21.1      20.0
ISA        1.7      1.6       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7
TOTAL  23.9 dl  23.8     23.0      21.9     21.1     20.1      19.2
a/ EEEB market includes Bogoti, Cundinamarca and Neta.
b/ EPM market includes Medellin, Antioqula and Chaco.
SI Vall. del Cauca end Cali.
d/ Actual value.



- 73 -
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
Plan to Reduce Public Entitiy Debt to the ElectricitX Sector
1.       Beginning in 1988, in a move to restore the financial viability of
the country's electric power companies, the national budget is to include a
debt offset program. Accordingly, the General Provisions of the 1988 draft
budget will include authorization for compensation of accounts between
debtor entities or offsetting of their comitments to FODEX as a method of
putting the portfolios of power companies and their local affiliates on a
sound footing.
2.       This arrangement will reduce the debt of national entities (at
both the central and decentralized levels), public agencies, and
government-owned idustrial and commercial enterprises by $1 billion in
1988. In 1989, it will clear all national-entity arrears remaining as of
December 1986.
3.       Similarly, and without prejudice to local-government autonomy of
control over resources available under Law 12 of 1986, the Ministry of
Treasury and Public Credit will cause part of these funds to be used to
settle arrears due to power companies from local governments and local-
government agencies. To this end, pursuant to Law 12 of 1968, Law 77 of
1987 and Resolution 3324 of 1987, the Ministry will withhold a proportion
of the larger share of local government in 1988 sales tax revenue for
settlement of sums due to power companies.
4.       In 1988, after allowance for the restricted entitlement of local
governments with over 100,000 inhabitants to these resources, Col$l billion
of arrears as of December 319 1986 (the local-government component of which
totals roughly Col$l.7 billion) will be settled. In 1989, the Ministry
will again apply the laws in force on withhoAding, thereby eliminating all
arrears due as of December 1986 from local governments (but not local-
government agencies) to all power companies, except in the case of
Barranquilla.
5.       As far as departmental and other regional and local-government
entities are concerned, the power companies themselves will be responsible
for the program to reduce arrears, an area where the Government is
accordingly supporting th. negotiation of payment agreements. Arrangements
for dealing with arrears due from entities linked to INSFOPAL will become
part of the current process for winding up that agency.
6.       Finally, tf-t draft 1988 budget submitted to the Congress provides
for a 41.11 adjustment in expenditure on utility services, while Article 15
of its General Provisions requires that the monthly spending estimates of
any official entity give preference to utility payments over other general
operating cost categories. The Treasury will observe the same priority in
Its payment arrangements.



- 74 -
AttAchment 4
Page 2 of 3
DEBT OF MUNICIPALITIES BY DEPARTMENT 1J
(Thousands of Pesos)
Debt            Resources        Debt Reduction
VAT 2/            in 1988
CORELCA
Atlintico                  762.848             58 127             58.127
Sucre                       46.473            205.504             46.473
Bolivar                     65.978            714.473             65.978
Cordoba                     18.169             21.044             18.169
Guajira                      9.117            142.108              9.117
Magdalena                   28.277             19.970              19.970
Subtotal          930.862          1,161.226            217.834
ICEL
Cundinamarca               111.378            157.367            111.378
Antioqula                    7.348            263.333              7.348
Boyaca                      83.986            126.156             83.986
Caldas                     113.705            676.736            113.705
Caqueta                      5.098             70.535              5.098
Huila                        8.854             98.727              8.854
Norte de Santander         170.530            209.807            170.530
Santander                   29.682            270.763             29.682
Nariio                      18.658            231.140             18.658
Subtotal          549.239         2,054.566             549.239
OTHER
Cundinamarca               113.195            276.281            113.195
Antioquia                    3.948            119.367              3.948
Valle                      120.356            595.243            120.356
Quindio  -                   1.349            136.181               1.349
Subtotal          238.848          1,127.072            238.848
TOTAL     1,718.949          4,343.862          1,005.921
11 Estimated at December 31, 1986, according information from JNT.
Does not include debt of Municipal Enterprises.
21 Vslue Added Tax.



- 75 -
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 3
DEBT OF THE POWER SECTOR
(Thousand of Pesos)
Estimated
Level                          Debt at              P a y m e n t s
of Debt                      December 31/86         1988          1989
Central Government                 1,483.897          1,000.000           483.897
Centralized                          916.158
Decentralized                        567.739
Municipal
Municipalities                     1,718.949          1,018.000           700.949
Municipal Entities 1/              4,164.830            754.000
Departamental Government
Departments 2/                       973.409
Department Entities                  127.089
INSFOPAL                           1,687.225
Other                                421.320
TOTAL                    10,576.719         2,772.000         1.184.846
1/ Of the total amount, $4.136 million corresponds to the Municipality of
Barranquilla; before March 30, 1988, an agreement for the payment of this
debt will be reached.
2/ Before March 30, 1988, an agreement for the payment of these arrears will be
reached.



- 76 -
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR
Investments 1987-1990
(US$ mill) 11
--------------------------------------------------------------------__----
1987     1988      1989    1990       Total
CORELCA                   48.7      16.3      33.1      47.3     145.4
CORELCA ELECTRIF.         15.0      17.6      23.8      24.9      81.3
CHB                       31.8                                    31.8
Cvc                        7.5      16.7      16.1      10.7      51.0
EEEB                     197.5    213.9    177.1    127.3    715.7
EPM                       86.2    131.6       78.8      33.9    330.5
ICEL                      40.1      38.5      59.5      55.6     193.7
ICEL ELECTR.              19.8      29.9      34.9      36.6     121.2
ISA                       55.5      84.3     121.7      84.0    345.5
FUTURE GENERATION                    1.0       4.1      42.6      47.7
TOTAL SECTOR             502.0    559.9    549.1    462.9    2063.8
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
GENERATION               281.7    287.2    176.1       118.3    863.3
TRANSMISSION              61.2    100.6    179.4    140.8    482.0
DISTRIBUTION              142.2    142.3    173.3      182.0    639.8
STUDIESIOTHER             16.9      19.7      20.3      21.8      78.7
TOTAL SECTOR             502.0    549.8    549.1       462.9    2063.8
1--O---ccrual--------calculated---th-N----flati-n--u---devaluat-o_-fa-tors
1/ On accrual banis, calculated with DNP inflation and devaluation factors.



- 77 -
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(USS mill)
1987    1988   1989    1990   TOTAL
CORELCA
1. Generation
Termoguajira II Plant              21.5                           21.5
Thermal Plant                                              1.9      1.9
2. Transmission
Substations                        11.9    1.5    5.9      2.6    21.9
Cartagena Amplif.                                  1.9     1.8     3.7
Sabanalarga-Fundaci6n                      2.5    9.9    14.3    26.7
Transmission Barranquilla                   1.8   13.4    18.9    34.1
Valledupar-Cuestecita                                      3.2     3.2
Other                               2.6                            2.6
3. Distribution
PERCAS A                           11.7    8.5                    20.2
PERCAS 8                                   1.0    1.1      3.9     6.0
Other                               0.3    0.3    0.4      0.4      1.4
4.  Studies and Other                   0.7    0.7    0.5      0.3      2.2
TOTAL CORELCA                      48.7   16.3   33.1    47.3   145.4
ELECTRIFICADORAS CORELCA           15.0   17.6   23.8    24.9    81.3
CHBitania                          31.8                           31.8
CVC
1. Transmission
*/Lines and Substations 11          0.9    3.9    4.6      2.7    12.1
2. Distribution
Lines and Substations               2.6    4.0    1.7      1.4     9.7
Rural Electrification               1.1    1.0    1.0      1.0     4.1
Control Center                             3.1    4.0      5.0    12.1
Loss Reduction Program              0.8    4.0    4.5      0.2     9.5
3. Studies and Other
Studies                             0.6    0.7    0.3      0.4     2.0
Alarm System                        1.5                             1.5
Plant
TOTAL CVC                           7.5   16.7   16.1    10.7    51.0
1/ Additionally, CVC will build the line from Pasto to Tumaco using
reourees from the Government.



- 78 -
Attachment 5
Page 3 of 5
1987    1988   1989    1990   TOTAL
EEEB
1. Generation
Guavio Plant                       149.6  154.8  114.6    61.8   480.8
2. Distribution
Urban Distribution I and II         26.9   26.1   48.3    54.4   155.7
Rural Distribution I and II          2.4   12.9    5.0      3.8    24.1
Control Center                      12.1   10.2    1.8              24.1
3. Studies, Other
Studies
General Plant                        6.4    3.9    2.4      2.3    15.0
Plant Recovery                              6.0    5.0      5.0    16.0
TOTAL EEEB                         197.4  2.13.9  177.1   127.3   715.7
EPM
1. Generation
Rio Grande Plant                    23.8   72.0   46.5    10.3   152.6
Playas Plant                        15.6   35.3                     50.9
2. Subtransmission and Distribution
Subtransmission                      0.7    2.4    0.9      0.9      4.9
Distribution                        28.9   17.2   26.3    18.4    90.8
Guadalupe IV Plant                  15.0    0.7                     15.7
3. Studies and Other
Studies                              0.2    0.3    1.5      2.5      4.5
General Plant                        2.0    3.7    3.6      1.8    11.1
TOTAL EPM                           86.2  131.6   78.8    33.9   330.5
ICEL
1. Generation
Small Plants                        10.3   18.0   10.2      1.7    40.2
Electrification Leticia              3.1                             3.1
Local Generations                           6.1    0.7               6.8
2.  Transmission
Line Popayan-Pasto                  18.5    4.6    2.5              25.6
Line B/manga-Ocaiia-Cicuta                  2.0   17.8    14.6    34.4
Other Lines                                 3.4    7.7      7.6    18.7
Substations                          2.9    0.5    0.7      0.6      4.7
3. Distribution
PNER I                               3.1                             3.1
Electrif. Natl. Territories          1.2    0.6                      1.8
Choc6 Electrification                0.6    0.4                      1.0
PNER II                                     2.4   19.6    31.1    53.1



- 79 -
Attachment 5
Page 4 of 5
1987    1988   1989    1990   TOTAL
4.  Studies                             0.4    0.5    0.3               1.2
TOTAL ICEL                         40.1   38.5   59.5    55.6   193.7
ELECTRIFICADORAS ICEL
ISA
1.  Generation
Jagtias Plant                       6.6                            6.6
Chivor II Plant                     3.9                             3.9
San Carlos II-Calderas Line        15.5                            15.5
2. Transmission
Ibague-La Mesa Line                        0.5   13.2      9.8    23.5
B/manga - Arauca Line               7.4   16.0   28.5             51.9
Betania - Ibague Line               0.2    0.7    3.2    27.2    31.3
500 KV Line                         4.8                            4.8
Transmission Upgrading             12.0   63.2   70.1    37.5   182.8
3.  Studies and Other
Sector Studies                              1.0    1.0     1.0     3.0
Studies                             2.4    0.9    0.3      0.1     3.7
General Plant                       2.7    2.0    5.4      8.4    18.5
TOTAL ISA                          55.5   84.3  121.7    84.0   345.5
Future Generation                           1.0    4.1    42.6    47.7
SECTOR TOTAL                      502.0  549.8  549.1   462.9  2063.8



- 80 -
COLUBIA                             ATTAC1110T 5
P08 SECTOR LOAN                     Pa' 5 of 3
1987-1990 FINWIN6 PLAN I/
(Killion US
Total
t97      1988     199      19"0   191-90
Financing Nends
lnvstment Progrm                              502       554      550      456     2062
Intnrnt during construction                    205      198      237      291      931
Morking capital Needs                           74       31       42       86      233
TOTAL                                        781      783      82       833     322b
FinanCin Plan
Brms  Internal Cash 6ewration                    650      719      819      940     3128
LessiInternt charged to Operations             251      267      236     I        948
A. Not Cash floss                                399      452      583      746      2180
8. Consums Contribution                           20       14       14       15       63
C. 6aovnrmet Contributions and Loans 2/          150      130      100       10       390
0. Total IA(BCJ                                   69      59.      697      771     2633
E. grass Borrovings                              698      686      681      691      2756
Evisting loans (foreign.locl)                 443      318      207      152      1120
Ftutre iomn 
Local borrcoings (FEN)                         97       79      105      121       402
Other local sources                            58       89       39       is      204
Now loans (cofinancinq) 3/                    100      200      330      400      1030
F. Less Debt Abrtisation Requiremnts             48       49       549      629     2163
6. Net borrovinqs IE-F)                          212      187      132       42       593
TOTAL (048)                                  781       783      829      833     3226
It Based on aoreed investment progrs and using IBRD/lD8
assmtions on inflation and devaluation.
2llncludes 6overnunt contributions and loans of which U$ 300 oillion
represnts valuo of local currency counterpart proceeds of present loan.
3/ The cofinancing schm  as per September 1987 is the folloinqs
[ot               300 mill. US
ftisbank(Japanl   300 ill. USS
Comwrcial Banks  200 mill. US$
SupWliers and
future financing  230 mill. U15
Total             1030 Will.USM



POMR SECTOR DJUSIIEIII LUA
SCIEiiUE  F ICTIME
PaStty eAA        I       IECTIVES           ' a*TNtSALPERDY    '            AE                      FO         2 .PECIFIC DATES               FO ELC iE F                FO ILEIEli W
*                         :                     S                         :                   I                             Si : 
A. ImEStriut P0IJCIES  t                           :                     '
1. lovetit Policie  )1t  ensure that wer                                 ' TIves of referuce to   .                                            Copleton. in a esew r      ILeast-cst PrWng  fioa  1
'iovtmut decisions are                          2prepare a reuvsed                              :                     satisfactory to t,e Bak,  2vrslon awoved by  wr
iKececallv sod and                              l :epmnlo  plan ad least                                             2of a draft least cot        1gw hard tar E.           I
4ilmnciallv viable.                             .cost progrb.             :                   .                      2prra  for  enerals. an  2(k d.6,b. I)t
:                         2                     lCumezteso t not to start I                   :                      2tro r    2W@,arovd:                                   t
:                         :                     law  sew  awaIti  pro-: 2                     *t 1*ib .                                           2                         t
41                        I t                    :                                                      I.0,111.2)  I
le the low         e                         2                             nostui  S  :          :
.ioetemat prow4.        ,                              
*          I          ,pa   o   971            *                    lpti gink 191  I                                   I#N
::the i:vntuat pro ras
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~fon :ei                             of t                       g                                                  :
2.  eel of IlswetcJts.:To ater    tesel  of pos     1 :n i   of seenu aod compSnJot wo erts an                         *Cool t2with Proreri  :e"seo  ofth te                                         2
nesiteetcomzpatible  livestamt                  21967-9OSctor lavetit                         2:1  an  Oct.199       Isecetimn.                  1293-0 Seco  lnwet-   S
llJtD I ear"     cno  b    progry, 87-96 tpropre aid fisnanin o    2r(Sect.3.S3)                                     ISe.4        3)                eiot Pro a              2
*mptetatooc.              2                     tplan for 2987-1990.      2                    14dn in XDec5.198 I                                2en I   rdo. 4eaed1nc     S
:  :                     :                        ;                   S^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lnd Dec.1989.  :               Iplas  tiSf*ttarr to      S
II~~~~~~~~                                 
:                                               *leattrlv updatian of     2                   ItSsctt.r.0b           :                             tthe    pnt.             I
X                  :          ~          ~~~~~ Itt. investment prooras  2               :                      I 2
'coltio  f hotrwt                         lom*n anr spetrsv t      2 I                                                                     * m     sImsin  i  tripio ie  I
I~~                           ~          ~~ :   hnanciew  plan and  2                  2                                                   2 t
I                                                  :it reviws of tlese f                                             :                                                      I
I             11                   Iltbeir loplementat,.on.                                                                         14 I  I  4 
8. INSItUTIOL ISSOI                         lI                     ,                        I. kio  Pro                                                             4
3. Projwet  sc4Pioic    Ito address tbe sor tal    S.owort sent to    :l1Mea      t pooroe o       2                                          .C6olsane itb  the haiso 2Cuplaser        with to      2
Illwviol             tdasnf pthoe  caw d bcor    It    to 0 w-      isss  i     isyue ktio Suvo.I                                         i               rPritre1. Isavis tr    t.        
locathG 1t wvsbK"lrge)flwrd                                               I 2                                        1cfto I     4A.hgo           2(chtrtt&W  oprat al
fal2  r     oivsat.                             11  2il 2                                     2                                     olm  2r" no  pows
I      ,                                                                                                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  "ifatyatraie    tcM4.b2  I
.    I             .        :                                             .                   2                      2dt                          I                         I
I                         S                     :                         S                   :I:                                                 : S
2                                                4                        1hi    .wn  *;n    :  s2 
0. tilSTtTUTtilillL l!;lUES I  :                 tIbw  3, ttioa Progru;                       t                      :                            S~~~~~4  I  1 
1. Pr &tor P"lrv21 esq., stoosflactonrv       oeaw0 2i 0        II    ;n      ptat   ano   ne   2                2                      Satssatry prgrs It5atssf6acttos   v prges
sdep thrn of   tr           "tt Csf thee erolect  lkienagme       t stat'e                                           lip teir iiplemetatv     Ire thentr   copesstt.   2
Iahote  *wg                                      Iluclod-;  schedule fair.   2                                       :toShd.4,o.4                 2(Dch led.ru.N,4          2 d   eo
2tS"                      2                     :lw                Pr :ru                     :                      2"if t   ltatn               Iil..b2 
:                         2                                               2                   2                      2                            2it}    
I.PwrSco   oc   l   mrv   oriaio:feg   adDl :Saems :s                            :oe        2                                           l9owerest"Xl ha esalss vres  ogv
1s  :h poe s:sco    Isn  to Coges               lscoplc   Ato                                                         lsl,tmalaroet  IAateivt   n
!wtl ote  !nrg  Iase-                           IPoreevrd                                                             t  mrv   et Iosrc !i aa te aln



FM   ECTER DJUSTENT  LIOW
___  EIEUE OF aCTe.
_  _ __ __ ____2                                                                                                                   2                          * _  ______.______ ________  __2
POLICY an          O~NJECT) YES      2ACTIO111NSLRAy                 mmEE                    FORP            SPECIFIC DATES           FOR RaELES IF              FORIPRLINE P
EICt I  eTAIED                                  2   AT t  T IATIONS      I  EFFECT)       I  2                             SECImm  TRElE        I      THIRD tOMn
2. Rulation            1,() to ensre settng 9160nro                               t to etablish I                     Itniteraig *nsto      lCli aac.                   tCepliae.                 2
let perforuace indicatorst                        onSitorine Coettee tol.                    e0ffctive Dc.31I1"7 I
land gitwr cosiance.  2lI)Estubl e   nd ouitor:                                              l1et.3.05)                                                                   2
I                                               pWforeane indicators  2                      *                      I
IblTe ens_e proper links:                       for all setor atilitis                       2                      2
!batmn trff  ettin        2                     121 Estalsh proper    2                                             I 
land operating Ofacamncv2                      3llntaq, betun taritfs 2                     2
2                     leetting ad cos plince                                              I                                                     I
2                         *                     2rnth prerftorm          2                   2                      2 
liodicators.             2
3. Ons,                                                                                                        iNN4      t i*  ,                                  2                         1aisono EE
J.  poaneseont and      Ia tl To  nre cos    e1..R  on  nagnt                                                          l       t   r       titii   of ETO n a                                     2
Efficiec             faith aro   wrformce  Istedie  for ICEE          study for EED.          I                    laction plan for EEII 2                            ueaq     t iamre    nt
1iudicators.              lan  CECA   gred   t2lll be ubtted for I                                                                               pln.
2  2                     2                   25Mk approval, by      26(W.4d   N. 2V
2                         2                     *                        2                    b.le.31l9U.          2                           2t
2                         2                     t                        2                   2NIanapeont  rW ooennt  SMission of draft          Iliisiem  of final        2
*                     2                        2                   lactin plis fr           onagesnt  wrm      t lvnngantt ire_ot   2
2:                       2                   zICE  and CELC C  mill  plas far I    a  COIELCslas for It         ma       I
2  1                                         be subsitted oam       llEctrificbad   .           land 13.I
*                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"ct 3I.l4U  All cIsc- 2(kbd. 44 ft. 5)  2ISbe.4  No.3) 
II I                                                                                   t
l(Itto nows coutinustion.19 lOl o    to FENV    ILm  rzeductio tare ts  I                    ID oc_ 31l I"?   6stftSKter  pregrms                Stsf cttery bresn        I
.'f les rodattten        tfor locs rotien    Itbreugh ISSO established.                      Isubsissdon of study   lin schievine  em           lin uthfia   lecs         I
tprwr.                   lprogr  s ip9d@.      11sct.3.061                                   toln lepl frasor       Irdutifon turptr            lrottimn tuwtg            1
f                         1Lecr                 2                        2ttontr flIcaid s a                         in  1907.    f.
IiRED       r                                                                                                                                   I I  I  :
g~ ~~~~~~L                2: 1-O         I                                                                    I                                                        I
4. Envirenmtal and    ITo owUte oplicatin                               {bfeir"tatitw  in the    ;                                          t"aoopetilisel                                         I
icf    1um           :of nwd sovirooetal                             ; Chivor trow"ir                                                     l  (kbod.0 N0.41             I411chd.U  0l.4)         I
Ind wei2l n    rdsc                  I                                                                              I 2                         I                         I
2tfrl preJ ctn as                               I                                            2                                                  el                        I
IbeeK nure  trlngkti a  toon plto tet   2                                                      I   brch 31, 197   tCfmc           pl ge.          Itiato   p
proflest  uiplontlon           o                ltroiqfrce 1994 s     e                      lsubenion of sytion        achieving No.4s         Rtn    i4a    I  s41      I
Iprog .  I lipid.     t onvire                                         le     adnl Uget.  * I tt2Ion aleg l   dire  I   r                       I
I    |                        ;        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~~ tSt tf4 pln.  I          
I                     2 I                      IaIt" nd p                    itrcs anosg   I    6                             .
Is initiate I           t                                          ISreor  utis. ctor yI                              I                         I
C. ftinPSCIF  Efiu r .                                                                       2 *   te  t at                       2             2
C. FINK2                                    2                                              2                     2I
t~~~~                                                           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I       I I                         '
t. Enor Fiuncrs         ITo ensure viapiaty i     I                       i ncl g plost00o mn  t      illi        of   Iiodtiou llol  tance.                                               lli
S,of tiandeng pirn. efraI It                               9 ar res nd e   cofio  ncin( fan"  I                     I                            et(  ofis    g fN        I
Irare enidiatlea          shtld hove kma     I                      Iaittdd er 2  2                               i2   t  I
lbe$areprolectserg  l                 rI  2.16t A2 amitomte   or                                        1                           2                         2gpVI
f ~         ~           ~         ~~ ~               ~~~~~~~ f    mf eivani nt   f                                                   imploWANa
selected andIduring                            IDcteplanstoarc 16eta Cd ctiaey I cCntiowq plan  I                                I                 lan.4e     2I         I
Iproject iIpeuotataon.  2                       lreinforce ISs           2                   2subelss       actioftn  Sibl pine tn  Ii mpleent d.  IoI4                   2
a, cofir etaq Omt        Iot.5.01aI                 .  1             cldid nig                                   l        I
I                                               Iret dct d.l IIroascs arv  I                                                                                              I Si d    to  I
2               2           ~            *                   I c t*eant..2                                       2                         1
*                                                                                                        I          I 
2   .            .                      *                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42 b"
Sectfr Finances  2n ensure v,ability                                                                                ,t I iog  l200  22id                 a       mlion
20 fiacn  pln             2                     Ifo  '97-9  an                                                                                                            ! eiacn   ud      1fcfnnigfd



-83 -                                      Amex 4
Wa&M X of 3
i    - - - - - - --                                            - -  -  - - -  - - - -  -  -
Wo __
i I                                                       U [i8    hi  S
La~~
J&f                        =0    la
ii~ ~~~z -            b---
-                 a-~~.                                 ;            -a 2
Ms                      z                 a53
--a, ~  ~       ~      ~       - --   -  -- --    -  -  -
L2   f                   si-t     I.eUbi
.g.- - S-----------
h Iis                               II:': Uk"        }
__.___....... __ __ _......................... _ __ _____________
1 Sx E
t                  "              "~~~~~~~~~~



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBTA
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR LOAN
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM COMPONENTS
I. Criteria used in Adiustint Investment Program
1.       Specifically, the following criteria were used:
(i)   The construction schedules for ongoing projects were adjusted
according to their actual progress; the schedule for completing
the largest single project, the Guavio hydroplant, was revised by
analyzing the costs and benefits of extending the construction
perio4. As a result, it was agreed to delay project completion by
two years (to 1992).
(ii)   For financial projection purposes, until the new least-cost
investment program is prepared, a reasonable estimate of the
investments on future generation projects have been prepared on
the basis of the investments required for the projects included in
the 1981 expansion plan, with construction schedules adjusted to
meet the current demand projections. Thus, the projectlon
includes about $40 million in 1990 and $515 million in 1991-2.
(iii)   The transmission lines included in the program were selected on
the basis of reliability analyses of the interconnected system
completed with line by line cost-benefit analyses to compare with
alternative options and to define the completion date for each
line. The reliability analyses were made by simulating the
operation of the system with and without each of the proposed
lines. The comparison with alternative options, such as
generation plants instead of interconnection lines, showed that
the proposed lines are the least-cost solution to supply
electricity to the regions to be served by those lines. The cost-
benefit analyses to define the completion date for each line
considered the cost of power rationing and losses. The cost of
power rationing was based in a detailed power rationing cost study
by sector of consumption carried out previously by ISA.
(iv)   The distribution component has been defined to meet three basic
objectives: (a) to reduce energy losses by improving the existing
distribution facilities; (b) to maintain current coverage level
in the urban areas; and (c) to extend rural electrification at a
similar pace as in the past. Although a figure higher than the
proposed amount for urban distribution programs would be
economical, distribution investments have been limited to the
proposed figures taking into account the sector's financial
constraints and its current execution capabilities. New rural
electrification projects included in the investment program (about



- 85 -
AN=EX 5
Page 2 of 3
US$160 million) have not been thoroughly studied yet. They would
respond to Government-supported programs as part of integrated
rehabilitation programs in priority regions affected by guerrilla
activity, drugs or poverty. Decision on the execution of these
projects will be reviewed once their studies are completed. At
negotiations the Government is to agree that new RE projects will
only be initiated after priority is determined and funds are
available.
II. Description of the Investment Program Components
Generation
2        The generation component of the expansion program consists of:
(i)   the Betania project, a 500 MW hydro power plant to be completed in
1987 by CHB, financed by supplier credits;
(ii) the San Carlos project, a 1,240 MW hydro power plant to be
completed in 1987 by ISA, financed partially by two Bank loans;
(iii) the Playss project, a 200 MW hydro power plant to be completed in
1988 by EMP, financed partially by a Bank loan;
(iv) the Guavio project, a 1,000 NW hydro power plant that is being
implemented by EEEB and financed partially by loans from the Bank
and IDB. would be completed by 1992;
(v) the Rio Grande project, a multipurpose project with a power
component of 322 MW, which is being implemented by EPM and
financed partially by the Bank and IDB loans; it would be
completed by 1992; and
(vi) future projects to be defined in the revision of the expansion
plan (par&. 3.05).
Transmission
3.       The transmission component consists of 560 km of 500 kV and 2,500
km of 230 kV transmission lines and corresponding substations. The 500 kV
line is the second interconnection line between Medellin and the Atlantic
Coast, which is required by 1991 to maintain service reliability in the
coastal region and to transmit energy from the Central Region to the coast
regularly from 1994 on. It would be partially financed by IDB. The 230 kV
lines extend the interconnected system to the south, the west and the
southeast and would reinforce the existing interconnected system.



-86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Subtransmission and Distribution
4.       The subtrsnsmission and distribution component consists of:
(i) improvements to the existing distribution facilities to reduoe
energy losses;
(ii) expansion of urban distribution systems to maintain current
coverage level; and
(iii)   extension of rural electrification lines throughout four programs;
PERCAS (Rural Electrification) II by CORELCA, PNER (National Rural
Electrification-Program) II and North Caqueta by ICEL, and
Cundinamarca by EEEB.
Studies and Training
5.       The studies and training component, which amounts to 2% of the
total investment program, consists of:
(i)   prefeasibility and feasibility studies, to widen the spectrum of
generation alternatives to be considered in planning the system
expansion;
(ii)   a study, funded by the proposed loan, on rehabilitation of old
power stations, which is expected to provide attractive options
for generation expansion planning;
(iii)   the following special studies: (a) a management study of EEEB and
mAnagement studies of the electrificadoras in the ICEL and CORELCA
groups (these studies are already being commissioned and are being
funded by FEN); (b) improvement of planning methodologies, mainly:
consideration of opportunity costs instead of market prices;
consideration of socioeconomic and environmental factors in the
comparison of expansion alternatives; a power tariff study that
would also include improvement of demand models, development of a
control system to follow-up the sector plan implementation, and
Impr6vement of data base for project selection; (c) studies, to be
carried out by ISA for improving tariff policy, mainlys
socioeconomic surveys for stratification purposes and demand
studies by c',7nsumer clocks to assess the impact of tariff changes;
(d) implementation of financial management information system for
the ICEL group, to improve financial control and the decision
making process; and (e) management studies on ICEL and CORELCA
groups for efficiency improvements and assessing of training
needs; and
(iv)   ongoing training programs under Bank and IDB financing.



- 87 -
COL.OIIII
P      SECTOR I1 /_
ACTUL AND FOWST IC     STATETl  1   4-192)                                4
tuallion of turrent US 1)
- --- Actual ---- ----Est ..----------.- ----ft - ------ For-- -t-
1984     1981     19t      19M7     1918    1919      1990    197-90    W1        1992    19-92
*_tJ ,~~~~~.                                           _ .     w .w*    _ ..     .. ___.. ^__..._ ZX*
Eletricitl SaeI  IQBM)                 19835    19759    20"92    22212    231S    25067    2607                28513    30410
Breatb rate 2                                   4.9      6.2       5.8      6.3      6.1      6.9               6.4      6.7
Awage Tariff
USto n;;llh                           4.27      3.8      3.73     3.95     4.23     4.52     4.64              5.13     5.44
Oroeth rate 2                                  -9.3      -3.8      6.0      7.0      7.0      7.0               6.0      6.0
Operating Revenun
Electricity Sale                     804.7    765.7    762.7    951.5   935.0   1051.5  1182.1  4020.1  1321.1  1478.4  2799.5
Other Operating Revnues               70.0      56.7    54.5    64.0       70.6    78.8    87.8   301.2    89.0    99.6    168.4
Total Operating Revenesn            875.5    822.4   837.2   915.5  1005.6   1130.3  1269.9  4321.3  1410.1  1579.0   298.1
Orating Expenses
Fuel                                  72.3      50.1     29.3     31.7     33.3    34.5    35.4    134.9    34.7    36.2          70.9
PersJ ol  Naintenance a othws        318.7    275.4   286.6    2".1    310.0   322.4   335.3   1265.8   341.7   362.6   711.3
Depreciatlon                         192.4    179.9   160.2    215.0   245.6   263.3   282.6   1006.5   305.5   331.0    637.3
__ ___ _   .__.__..                                       - _ ___   _   _
Total Operating Expenses            513.4    505.6    496.1    544.E    589    620.2    653.3  2407.2    663.9   730.6  1419.5
Operati  Income                        292.1    316.8   341.1   370.7   416.7    510.1   616.6   1914.1   721.2   647.4   1561.6
Other Incom                             90.4     33.3    26.1    64.1        56.9    45.4      41.1   207.5    16.4       20.5    36.9
Net Incme before Interet               392.5   350.1   367.9    434.8   473.6   555.5   657.7   2121.6   737.6   667.9  1605.5
Total Interet                          300.2    347.1    369.8    456.2   464.2    473.0   484.8   1678.2   473.3   446.3    919.6
Less Interest During Construction      135.9    134.0    155.0   205.2   197.5    237.1    291.1   930.9   305.6   265.3    591.1
Interest Charqd to Incoe               164.3    213.1   214.8   251.0   266.7    235.9   193.7    941.3   167.5   161.0   328.5
Net Income                             218.2    137.0   153.0    183.6  206.9    319.6   464.0   1174.3    570.1   706.9  1277.0
1/ Excles Ecress Nuicipalns de CaIi.



- 88 -
CVUIi                                         Awl 6
FM    Km       ITUR/                               Page2 of 4
ACTUA  AGW FORECAST WMUCE  AND APPLICATIOW   W  FMll  11964-199
(eilliams of current Us15 )
1964     1965     1964      1"?      1996      1969     19W      196-9    1991      199      1991-92
Not l.acoa Defer. Interest            362.5    350.1    347.6    434.8    473.4    555.5    657.7   2121.4    737.6    66.9   1605.5
he   ati   Expenses192.4    179.9    180.2    215.0    245.4    263.3    262.6   1006.5    305.5    331.1    637.3
otcr NO-Usk fswsn0.0                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
-   ' .    ' i9.i  1.-   .e...    Tti]               ann       Os..
Orm,  Internal Cash deneation        57.9    53.0    54.0    44.            1.       1.        4.      161 14.            197 24.
Cm  ls:Iteret Charged to Inco..          164.3    213.1    214.8    251.0    266.7    235.9    193.7    947.3    1i7.5    161.0    326.5
Net Cash Flow                            410.6    3.9    333.2    36.         452.5    512.9    744.6   2180.6    675.6   1038.7   1914.3
Equity Contributions
Goverments Contributions 2/            93.9      92.3     59.2    150.0    130.0    100.0       10.0    390.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Cosumerts contributions                 24.4      6.1     21.2      20.0     14.0      14.0     15.0      63.0      9.4      7.6      17.0
Total Equity                         116.3    100.4      104    17.0    144.0    114.0         25.0    453.0       9.4      7,6      17.8
T.t.l npn-borrowe  funds           528,9    417.3    413.6    569.8    596.5   4O6.         771.4   2633.6    815.0   1046.3   1931.3
Gorrowings
Existing Loans
Fortip                    ~~~~717.6    750.3    492.?    369.4    316.0    207.0    152.0   1066.6    149.3      46.1    195.4
Localg                              381.3    200.4   2M.2         53.4      0.0       0.0      0.0     53.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Existing Loans              1091       91.       6.       430      360    20O7.       152.0 Tt 110.      149.      46.      19.
Future Loans
Local (FENl                            0.0      0.0      0.0      97.0     79.0    105.0    121.0    402.0    131.5    164.6    29l.
Other Local 3/                        0.0       0.0      0.0      56.7     87.7      38.4     16.6    203.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
Cofintancing                          0.0       0.0      0.0    100.0    200.0    330.0    400.0   1030.0         0.0      0.0       0.0
Other Future (1991-1992               0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    526.2    365.6    911.6
Total Future Loans                   00         .0      0.0    255.7    346.7    473.4    539.6   1635.4    657.7    550.2   120.9
Total Urms Borrowsings            1099.1    956.7    765.9    496.7    684.7    660.4    691.6   2755.4    807.0    596.3   1403.3
Lost: Debt Am,rti:atiou            321.6    352.6    365.6    466.0    499.2    !'7         629.3   2163.2    765.4    493.1   1476.7
Net Borrowings                         7T77.5    6061    420.3    21.7    155           117       6.        1.        14     -66       4.
TOTI SOURCES         1306.4   1023.4   6F33-.9    7    1.5    72.0    62.6    633.9   3226.0    906.4   949.5   1655.9
APPICATIONS
Direct lnvestment                      1216.1    993.      435.2    502.0    554.0    550.0    456.0   2062.0    564.3    561.9   1126.2
Initerest luring Construction           135.9    134.0    155.0    205.2    197.5    23.1    291.1    930.9    305.6    265.3    591.1
total Investmnt                     1354.    127,9    790.2    707.2    751.5    76.1    747.1   2992.9    87.1    647.2   1719.3
Increase in Noting Capital              -47.6   -104.5      43.7      74.4     30.5     41.5      66.9    233.3      34.2    102.2    136.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                1306.4   1023.4    03.9    761.6    76.0    63.6    634.0   3226.2    906.3    949.4   1655.
as**"a  saaaaa   asaia        mamm *Mn    am"     aaa" 0        mm    na   g of.   m   mm      Is
urplus (Deficit) of Funds                 0.0      0.0       0.0     -0.1       0.0      0.0     -0.1      -0.2      0.1       0.1      0.2
Accumulated                               0.0       0.0      0.0      -0.1     -0.1      -0.1     40.2               40.1      0.0
I/ Eicludes Empreusa Nunicipales de Call.
2/Inacludes the nrset loan 16300 million) hich the Govrnment will transfer to the Paoser Sectow.
31 Includes in* #'a funds to be chanelled to the Power Sector thirogh FEN.
4



- 89 -
COLONDIA
PoWER SECTOR I1                                    s - 
ACTUAl AND FORCAST BALANCE MMEEtS (1984-19M)
teillions of current US 0)
---- Actual-- ----^Est.--- ---w- *-*Fr --------- *i
1984     1985     1986    1987      1988    lm 99     99*    1991    199
..~~~--              ----.. .. ..  _..__   .......    w.. ....._,__
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                    5953.9   5661.5  4276.?   7911.0  8432.8  9081.4  9713.3  10597.3  11467.5
kccusulated Depreciation              16V1.2   1524.8   1599.7   1796.8   2108.1  2429.3  2756.7  3136.9   3554.8
.... ....~~......            .... ....... _........+. __. .
Not Fixed Assets in Service          42M2.7  4136.7  4677.0  6114.2  6M24.7  6652.3  6956.6  7460.4  7912.7
General Plant (Not)                    96.6      58.1    45.7    31.1    33.4    29.3    25.5    22.5    19.9
Work in Progress                     3000.8   2493.9   2185.4   1264.1   1927.0  2447.1   2876.9  3306.4  3769.5
Total Fixed Assets                 7380.1   6678.7   6908.1   7416.4  8285.1   9128.7  9858.9  10789.3  11702.1
lnvestnnts                             37.4    27.5    21.6       18.0    15.8    13.9       12.1    10.7       9.4
Studies                                64.2    48.3       38.0    31.6    27.0    24.4    21.2    18.7    16.5
Current Assets
Cash                                  82.0    95.5    88.2    74.8    67.2    69.2    67.0    75.4    93.7
Teporary investents                   0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Acounts Receivable                   246.8   193.1  10.9   193.5   205.1   208.0   216.8   224.0   246.9
Inventories                          167.5   117.0   141.6   123.6   130.7   134.6   160.1   176.2   19.6
Other                                199.6   133.8   209.9   132.6   144.4   157.0   169.3   185.5   203.2
Total Current Assets                695.9   539.4   6;0.6   524.5   547.4   560.8   613.2   661.1   729.4
Other Assets                           120.4   129.1   101.5    94.6    74.3    65.2    56.7    50.1    44.2
TOTAL ASSETS                         8298.0  7423.0  7699.8  8075.1  8950.4  9801.0  1052.1  11529.9  12501.6
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and Accumulated Surplus    1180.9   941.5   948.9  1115.1  138.6   1555.0  1809.3  2144.0  2567.0
Capital Revalumtion                3444.9  2354.6  2136.6  2305.3  2797.7  3278.1  3749.1  43;0.1  4994.2
Total Equity                      4625.8  3296.1  3085.5  3420.4  4104.3  4833.1  5558.4  6474.1  7541.2
Long-Ter  Debt (gross)               2854.0   3390.9  3868.2  4102.2  4300.6  4441.5  4508.5  4531.2  4428.0
Pension and other Reserves             151.2   118.3     93.1    77.5    68.1    59.1    51.9    45.9    40.5
Curret Liabilities
kcounts Payable to contractors      267.0   221.9   228.3   144.8   150.3   139.2   106.0   124.7   108.5
Inteort payable                      87.3   106.6   168.9   141.2   125.8   115.2   113.0   111.0    104.9
Other current Liabinties            286.0   261.0   233.7   170.6   183.1   197.9   211.8   230.1   24N.9
Tntal Current Liabilitien          640.3   589.5   630;9   454.6   459.2   452.3   430.8   467.8   46.3
W'ior Liabilities                      24.6    28.1    22.1    18.4    16.2    14.2    12.3    10.9             9.6
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES         8297.9  7422.9  7699.8  8075.1  8950.4   90.61  10561.9  11529.9  12501.6
I d.'       833   833383   383333 l18    3833 _3 i
1/ Excludes Eapress Nunicipales de Call



- 90 -
WOWDIA                                        ANNE 6
POM   SECTOR                                       p     4 of 4
CTWUL AND FORECAST FINANCIAL INDICATORS 11984-1942M
----Ac tual----'----Est. ---------------------     r-                    ---
1984     1905     19        1967     198      1989      1990     199      192
Selt-financinq  ratio IS}  1/             6.6      -3.2     -4.1    -12.3      -6.2      4.3      15.7     10.3     40.8
Rate of Return (2)  21                              5.5      5.7      5.2       5.1      5.8      6.6       7.1      7.7
Oebt/Debt'Eguity Ratio 42)               38.2      50.7     55.6     54.5      51.2     47.9     44.8      41.2     36.9
Dbt Service Coverage (tion) 31            1.2       0.9      0.9      0.9       0.9      1.0       1.1      1.0      1.1
Acouts Receivable (days)                  110        91       Be       82        79       71        66       61       60
11 Nbt internal cash gEeration divided by total investunt including IDCs.
21 Operating incoe  divided by the averg  net fixed asst in oration.
/ Oross internal cash genoration divided by debt srvice, excluding IOCs.



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
ELECTRICITY TARIFFS
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE OF LRMC
.ABLE 1
Consumer Type                         LRMC (CSIav.kWh)
1. Industry
High Voltage                                  7.3
Medium Voltage                                8.4
Low Voltage                                  10.9
2.  Commercial and Other                              11.2
3. Residential                                        12.0
TABLE 2
Typical Household Electricity Prices (1982-86)
Average Price Paid (C$/kWh)
Monthly
Consumption (kWh)        Boaota      Medellin      Cali     Barranguilla
Social Stratum 2*
100                   1.4         1.5           1.5        2.6
200                   1.8         1.5           1.1        3.4
Social Stratum 4*
200                   1.8         3.2-3.3       3.4        4.7
300                   2.0         3.2-3.3       4.7        5.5
400                   3.8         3.2-3.3       5.4        5.9
Social Stratum 6*
400                   3.8         4.0           6.2        6.7
500                   4.4         4.2           6.7        7.7
800                   6.3         4.6           7.4        9.0
* Social strata as defined by JNT.



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Typical Industrial Electricitv Prices (1982-86)
Average Price Paid (CS per kWh)
Bogoti                    Medellin
Medium             Low        Medium    Low
Hours of Use Bar Year           Voltage             Voltate    Voltage   Voltage
A.  2000 hrs. on peak       14.1 (single met2r)      14.1        7.2       8.0
3000 hrs. off peak    15.5 (double meter)       15.5
B.  1200 hrs. on peak      14.1 (single meter)       14.1       9.8       11.1
730 hrs. off peak    17.4 (double meter)       17.4



COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR LOAN
Organization of the Power Sector (196)
I Ptescen of  I
fiGk 4epubbc
Not""~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~
bthes agclEleg  Pkwwwn 00pWdnwen
.I
hd  I _  CoteX      CVC       Murul;s~ot &)AY                Gtovemlwt
4  h  |                        EllB                        cip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~umbamles
ftw       4   AWAm I-  r*.
4-~~~~~~~~~~                 _             !A         P w1c-11|P--r    |Amlw      E@  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ck &Mi 3 *                                      /
.   .  '   I -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i  cu_  I  I   CotdobtX  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 94 -
CO LEI;A                                                   AMNEX=   8
POWER SECTOR LOAN                                           Page  2 of  2
SECTOR SIAT!STICS. 196
Avera;;
Utltlty                                 Number of  Sales per  Number of  Losses   Averaoe          Coeratv.g
custugers  custoaer   eployes 7sTar. f                        ;st
iOOs    (fkharl                          'Cois kwh.    Co' I  t.
1.  ELpresa de ner;da Electrica
de Bogota IEEED!                           764        6598        3771       24         6.'         4.!
2.  E#wesaI Pubiacas de
Nedellin (EPN)                             399       15698        2350        21        2.1
3.  Cor oracIin del Velle del
I   Valre del Cauca (CVC)                       459        6344         942       1E         5.3^
4.  Esprosas Runicipales
do Cali (ENCALI)
5.  Coporacion Autonosa
Regional de Guindio                         18        1767          57        38
6   Eapresas Publicts de Pereira                 54       5003         152        22         4.4
7   Esprusas Publicas de Armenia                 36       3311          70        19         4.9
8.  Espresas Municipales de Cartago
ICEL 6roup
9.  Esprusa AntiOquepa de Energia              195        4040         999        23         3.6         3.5
10. Electrificadara del Boyaca                 III        4694         829        18         4.8        4.2
11. Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas           166        7282        1199        30         3.4        3.7
12. Electrificadora del Caqueta                  11       2328          65        12         5.9           7
13. Centrales Electricas del Cauca              63        2960         587        34         4.9        6.4
14. Electrificadora de Cundnaauarca             73        4812         520        12         6.4        5.7
15. Electrificadora del Choco                   11        3357          87        22           4        4.?
16. Els,ctriricadora del iu:la                  90        2919         384        19         1.6        4.9
17. Electriticadijr; del Mete                   41        3'94         105        29         5.2       5!.
18. Centrales Elec'ricas de Marino             100        2561         515        35           4        5.9
lq. Centrales Electricas del
Norte de Santander                         121        3392         402        14        4.6         K.4
20. Electrificadora de Santander                JQ4       3247        1015        14         4.1         5.'
21. Electrifi:adora del Tolise                 126        3816         964        25        4.3            a
Total ICEL Broup                        1299                   7670
CORELCA Group
22. Electriticadora del Atlantico              200        6901        1223        26         6.4        6.
23. Electrificadora de Bolivar                 lOt        6435         791        15        6.3         b.c
24. Enerqia Electrica de Maganque               la        2488          92         3           5        6.8
25. Elec trificadora del Cesar                  46        2776         227        24         5.9
26. Electrificadora do Cordoba                  71        2964         476        23         5.5        7.6
27. Electriticadora de Ia 6uajira               31        3099         236        34         5.            8
28. Electrificad3ra del Magdalena               72        3917         359        33         6.1           7
29. Electrificadora de Sucre                    51        3013         303        18         5.7         5.9
30. Electrificadora de San Andres
y Provincia                                  7        8010         182       20         7.3
Total  ORELCA 6roup                      595                   3808
31. lnterconuuion Electrica S.A.(ISA)             5                   1273         4        2.9         15
32. Central Hidroalectrica Betania
Total (Consolidated)                          3629        5019       20173        24        5.5         2.3



- 95 -
ANNEX 9
COLOMBIA
ENERGY AND PEAK DEMAND BALANCES
Energy Balance (PWh)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995   1996
(1) Potential Supply I/    31.0  36.6  38.7  38.7  39.5   43.4  44.6  44.7  44.7  44.5  44.6
(2) Demand                   27.1  28.6  30.2  31.9  33.8   35.7  37.9  40.2  42.5  45.1  47.8
(3) Balance                   3.9   8.0   8.5   6.8   5.7    7.7   6.7   4.5   2.2  (0.6) (3.2)
(4) Balance as % of (1)    13    22    22    18    14         18    15    10       5     0      0
Peak Demand Balance (GW)
1986  1987  1988  1989   1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
(5) Installed Effective       6.7   8.6   8.6   8.6   9.1    9.9   9.9   9.9   9.9   9.9  10.1
(6) Available 2/              5.8   7.6   7.6   7.5   8.0    8.7   8.6   8.5   8.4   8.3   8.4
(7) Demand                    4.7   5.0   5.3   5.6   6.0    6.3   6.7   7.1   7.5   8..   8.5
(8) Balance                   1.1   2.6   2.3   1.9   2.0    2.4   1.9   1.4   0.9   0.3  (0.1)
(9) Balance as X of (5)    16    30    27    22    22         24    19    14       9     3      0
Notes:
1/ Potential Hydro estimated as 95S guaranteed generation. Potential thermal estimated as
an average value.
2/ Installed effective capacity minus reserve margin.



- 96 -
,ANNE  10
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
POWER SCTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUpl 1et   Loan Data Sheet
-Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Prepared bys                        Ministerio do Minas y Energ.a,
Departamento Nacional de
Planoaci6n, FEN and tSA
(b)  First Bank Mission:                 February 12, 1985
(c)  Appraisal mission departure:        February 16, 1987
(4) Negotiations:
(e)  Planned date of Effectiveness:      November 1, 1987
(f) Expected time of second and
third tranches release:             June/1988 and December/1988
Section II: S2ecial Bank Implementation Conditions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions for release of the USS75 million socond tracihe are:
(a) Completion, in a manner satisfattory to the Bank, of the revised
draft least-cost investment program (1991-2000) for generation and
associated ttsasmission (para. 90).
(b) Compliance -With the program to address social issues caused by
Gua'io (para. 97).
(c) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the new financing
plan and management arrangements for the Guavio project (para.
91).
(d) Government has established institutional arrangements to improve
sector coordination (Energy Board Law approved or satisfactory
alternative) (para. 85).
(e) Compliance with (i) setting-up a system (Monitoring Committee) for
the power sector to: (1) establish and monitor the performance for
all sector utilities; (2) establish proper linkage between



97 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
tariff setting and compliance with performance indicators; and
(ii) satisfactory progress in its implementation (para. 94).
(f) Satisfactory progress in achieving loss re4uction targets for 1987
(para. 96).
(g) Sa,isfactory progress in implementation of staffing plan, budget
and training program to reinforce ISA's environmental unit (para.
97).
(h) Satisfactory progress shall have been achieved in carrying out the
1987-90 Sector Investment Program, including Government's capital
contribution of US$150 million to ICEL and CORELCA (para. 101
(c)).
(i) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the financial
rehabilitation plans for ICEL and CORELCA (para. 101 (d)).
(j)  Satisfactory progress in eliminating the public sector arrears
(para. 101 (b)).
(k) Submission of draft management improvement plan for ICEL's and
CORELCA's electrificadoras (para. 95).
2. Conditions for release of the US$75 million third tranche are:
(a) Submission of updated 1987-90 Sector Investment Program and
related Financing Plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 89 (ii)).
(b) Compliance with the program to address social issues caused by
Guavio (para. 97).
(c) Completion of the new financing plan and management arrangements
for the Guavio pro',ect (para. 91).
(d) Government to give ISA authority to own, construct and operate all
future major generation and transmission projects (para. 86).
(e) Submission of the management improvement action plan for EEEB,
ICEL and CORELCi satisfactory to the Bank (para. 95).
(f)  Satisfactory progre_s in achieving loss reduction targets for 1988
(para. 96).
(g) Satisfactory reforestation of additional areas at Chivor project
(para. 97).
(h) Commitment of US$450 million of cofinancing funds or
implementation of a contingency plan (para. 101 (c)).



- 98 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(i)  Satisfactory progress in eliminating the public sector arrears
(para. 101 (b)).
(j) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the financial
rehabilitation plan for ICEL and CORELCA (para. 101 (d)).
(k)  Submission of final Least-Cost Investment Program 19li-2000 for
generation and associated transmission (para. 90).



- 99 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
POWER SECTOR LOAN
Support Documentation and Working Papers
SECTOR ORGANIZATION
1.   Sector Electrico Colombiano - Informaci6n General.  ISA, Octubre 1986.
2.   Estructura y Configuraci6n del Sector Elictrico Colombiano, ISA,
Diciembre 1985.
3.   Comision Nacional de Energia, Proyecto de o.ty. MME, Noviembre 1986.
4.   Decreto 381: Reforma de los Estatutos de ICEL.  Febrero 1985.
DEMAND FORECAST
5.   Proyecciones de Demanda con Modelo Economitrico, 1985-2004.  ISA,
Noviembre 1985.
6.   Proyecciones Regionales de Demanda de Energia y Demandas de Potencia.
ISA, Diciembre 1985.
i.   Balance Energitico Hist6rico - Actualizacion 1985, ISA, Julio 1986.
8.   Balance de Energia y Potencia.  ISA, Septiembre 1986.
9.   Evoluci6n de la Demanda de Energia.  Pariodo 1970-1995.  ISA, Marzo
1987.
ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING
10. Social and Environmental Planning in the Colombian Electrical Sector.
Shelton Davis, Consultant, October 1986.
11.  Colombii Power Sector Loan: Report of Environmental Review Mission.
George Ledec, Consultant, December 1986.
12. Plan Forestal para Chivor, 1986-1995. ISA, Mayo 1986.
13. Reforestacion y Protecci6n de la Cuenca de la Central Chivor.
14.  Evaluaci6n y Propuesta para el Manejo del Impacto Socio-Econ6mico del
Proyecto Guavio, EEEB, Febrero 1987.
15. Codigo de Recursos Naturales Renovables y de Proteccion al Medio
Ambiente. Decreto 2811 de 1974.



- 100 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 2
16.  Ley 56 de 1981: Normas sobre Obras Pablicas de Generacion Electrica y
Acueductos.
THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
17. Actualizacion del Plan de Expansion del Sistema Interconectado
Colombiano. ISA, Junio 1986.
18. Proyeeto Refuerzo de la Transmisi6n 1985-1990. ISA, Septiembre , 85.
19.  Plan de ExpAnsi6n del Sistema Electrico de CVC, 1986-1992.  CVC, sin
fecha.
20. Revision del Plan de Expansi6i, de Tzansmisi6n ISA, Febrero 1987.
21.  Evaluaci6n Economica de los Sistemas de Transmision.  ISA, Febrero.
1987.
22. Plan de Desarrollo Electrico del Area Metropolitana de Barranquilli.
CORELCA, Enero 1987.
23. Plan de Inversiones y Eficiencia Empresarial. Grupo de Anilisis de
Inversiones y Eficiencia Sectorial, Octubre 1986.
24.  Prestamo de Ajuste Sectorial, Informe Resumen.  ISA, Marzo 1987.
25.  Sistema y Practica del Mantenimiento en ISA.  Febrero 1982.
26. Proyecto de Renovacion y Complementaci6n de Instalaciones. ISA,
Febrero 1987.
27. Terminos de Referencia para Estudios - ISA, Abril 1987.
28. Centro de Investigaciones del Sector Electrico Colombiano. Proyecto
de Asistencia Tecnica. ISA, Febrero 1987.
FINANCING PLAN
29. Planes de Expansi6n del Sistema de Generacion, Evaluaci6n Financiera.
ISA, Marzo 1986.
30.  Las Dimensiones de la Politica Tarifaria en los Servicios Piblicos
Domiciliarios. JNT, June 1986.
31. Proyecto Guavio, Esquema de Financiamiento. EEEB, Diciembre 1986.
32. Actualizaci6n de las Proyecciones Financieras. FEN, Febrero 1987.
33. Proyecciones de Ventas de Energia Electrica, 1987-2000. ISA, Febrero
1987.



J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ,                                         )A79.-. ia   _  
l ',    5 U T H     ll*                                                                           j 
|  A M     i R C A 's-<"'i=5-f  
SOUTI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
Carragaemo 
i   PANAMA-.                                                                                    VE NE Z UE LA
J"ck~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I   ,        j                               8v''V'CIv 1 J -    )               4 A               ; , 
I  ~ ~~~,'      '.                     I.                                         t                                    .'
L ~  ~     ~ ~       4- -~ iu I                                                                           '.NI
=  =   _   zJ                              ,
I .  .Gs,
<ra  D - -  ~~M      ,  te  -=s~ ;t<  
Cat c-tso   { fttBarboso                    
Ancdn;S q.,; e    
, ,,<,_   Aente:o   , an olts
Mowzciles
e-cCRr   POWE   S
EsmerrsIi_5 lorgSc / ...... 5                           C
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.o 'oe p/nt '    '
|~                            Maenavervoco a
I~~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. I!tflGrro:b.ndre
Solstll n A
|                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ne .ao!
!     AD         ?COLOMBIA
I Popota? 8ean.o ELECTRIC  POWER  SYSTEMS               o
T,a^--:s n~ ! es     E F fE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ) _- -               zk            C'V'_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MIS  Hyav~op,.ve                                    rlt' COP(Zr 4
>                                                   ^,          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thermal poeI plonts  ICEL
^,   S_         ~~~~~pav,J                                              ID     o   Svbsations
E CUiA DCQ R                                                                       Inte lrnoww 0re b.jndo,.esi
rEPDJAPt 'S'



