Page  1
August 14, 1989
H. E. Dr. Luis Fernando Alarcon Mantilla
Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Carrera 7, No. 6-45, Oficina 801
Re:
Loan No. 2889-CO
- Power Sector Adjustment Loan
- Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
I refer to the Loan Agreement, dated March 16, 1988 (the Loan Agreement) for the 
above referenced Loan between the Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and your request to amend the Loan Agreement 
for the purposes of the release of the second Tranche provided under the Loan 
Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
hereby proposed:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended by deleting paragraph (p) thereof and substituting it by 
the following:
"(P) "Loss Reduction Program" means the Borrower's plan to reduce energy 
losses by 
the Electric Power Companies set forth in the Plan de Emergencia de 
Recuperacion de Perdidas 
y Cartera dated April 1989, and the Informe de Avance on 
such plan dated June 1989, 
furnished to the Bank through letters from the 
Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy dated  April 28, 1989 and June 30, 1989, 
respectively."
2.
By deleting paragraph 1 of Schedule 4A to the Loan Agreement and renumbering the 
remaining paragraphs accordingly and deleting the definition of "Energy Board proposed 
law" set forth in its last paragraph. 
3.
By adding the following new paragraph 6 and definition (c) to Schedule 4 B to 
the Loan Agreement:
"6. The Energy Board proposed law shall have been enacted or, in the 
event that such 
proposed law is not enacted, the Borrower shall have taken all 
action as shall be necessary 
for the achievement of the policy objectives of such 
proposed law.
(c)   "Energy Board proposed law" means the proposed law submitted by the 
Executive 
Branch of the Borrower to its Congress in November 1986, providing for 
the establishment of 
an energy board."
 
In this amendment letter, unless its context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings
therein set forth.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
attached confirmation copy of this Amendment Letter and returning the same to the 
undersigned.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Director, Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis F. Alarcon
Date:  August 17, 1989
