Page  1
July 11, 1989
Dr. Luis F. Alarcon-Mantilla
Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Carrera 7 No. 6-45, Oficina 801
Bogota - Colombia
Re:
Loan No. 2889-Co
Power Sector Adjustment Loan
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated March 16, 1988 (the Loan Agreement) for the 
above-referenced Loan between the Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and your request to 
amend the Loan Agreement to introduce a cross-default clause pursuant to the Agreement 
on Cofinancing between the Bank and the Export-Import Bank of Japan dated March 25, 
1987 for purposes of certain financial assistance to be obtained by Financiera 
Electrica Nacional (FEN) from Japan's Export-Import Bank.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
hereby proposed:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended by deleting the word "and' after paragraph (s); 
substituting ';and" for the period after paragraph (t) and by adding the following 
paragraph (u) to such section:
"(u) "EXIMBANK Loan Agreement" means the credit agreement to be entered 
into between  FEN and the Export-Import Bank of Japan for an untied Japanese Yen Loan 
in the equivalent 
amount of up to 300 million dollars, such loan to be guaranteed by 
the Republic of Colombia 
and to complement the financing required under the Power 
Adjustment Program".
2.
Section 4.01 is amended by: (i) deleting the word land" after paragraph (b); 
(ii) substituting ";and, for the period at the end of paragraph (c); and (iii) by 
adding the following new paragraph (d) to such section:
"(d) FEN or the Borrower, in its capacity as guarantor under the Eximbank 
Loan 
Agreement, shall have failed to pay any amount due to the Export-Import 
Bank of Japan, 
whether in respect of principal, interest, fees, changes or 
otherwise, and whether by 
scheduled maturity, by required prepayment, by 
acceleration, by demand or otherwise, under 
the Eximbank Loan Agreement; provided, 
however, that: (i) the failure to pay such amount 
shall have continued for a 
period of not less than sixty days and shall be continuing; and 
(ii) the aggregate 
of the amounts due and payable shall exceed the amount of the equivalent  of two 
million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500.000)".
3.
Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions the 
following 
additional events are specified: (a) that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of 
section 4.01 of the Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower, and (b) that the loan 
provided for in the Eximbank Loan 
Agreement has become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof due to 
failure by Financiera Electrica Nacional or the Borrower to comply 
with any of 
their respective obligations under the Eximbank Loan Agreement".
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meaning 
therein set forth in this
Page  2
Amendment letter.
The amendments set forth in this Amendment Letter shall come into force and 
effect on the date upon which the Bank shall acknowledge receipt of a duly 
countersigned copy of this Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the enclosed copy of 
this letter and returning it to us.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Acting Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
By /s/ Luis F. Alarcon Mantilla
Authorized Representative
Date:
7 JUL. 1989
