Page  1
Bogota 
June 2, 1988
MR. PING-CHEUNG LOH
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Re.
Loan No.2889-CO (Power
Sector Adjustment Loan)
Amendment Letter
Dear Mr. Loh:
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated March 16, 1988 (The Loan Agreement) between 
Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) for the above-referred Loan and to the discussions between 
representatives of the Borrower and a recent Bank mission to Colombia.
I am pleased to inform you that the Borrower hereby proposes to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 3.04 is amended by substituting the date March 31, 1988 by "July 31, 
1988" in paragraph (a) therefor.
2.
Section 3.04 is further amended by (i) redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph 
(d); and (ii) adding the following new paragraph (c).
(c)
not later than July 31, 1988 prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
progress report 
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on 
the execution of the 
Financial Rehabilitation Plans of each of the 
companies of the ICEL Group and the CORELCA 
Group listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) 
of Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
3.
Section 3.05 is deleted and substituted by the following:
 
"Section 3.05 (a) Not later than July 31, 1988, the Borrower shall 
prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request 
on the performance of the Electric Power Companies and the 
compliance by the Electric Power  Companies with the targets set forth in the Program 
such report to be prepared on the basis 
of monitoring indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank and through the monitoring arrangements 
defined by the Borrower on letter 
dated May 24, 1988, signed by the Minister of Mines and 
Energy.
 
(b)
Based on the content and format of the report referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section and on the comments of the Bank on the monitoring 
indicators and arrangements 
refereed to in said paragraph (a) the Borrower shall 
not later than September 30, 1988 
establish and put into effect a system 
satisfactory to the Bank to monitor the performance 
of the Electric Power Companies 
and the compliance by the Electric Power Companies with the 
targets set forth in 
the Program.
4.
Section 3.06 is deleted and substituted by the following:
 
"Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the 
Electric Power 
Companies to carry out the Loss Reduction Program in a manner and 
according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall, not later than July 
31, 1988, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed progress report and timetable, 
Page  2
satisfactory to 
the Bank, on the execution of the Loss Reduction Program by each 
of the Electric Power 
Companies.
 
5.
Section 3.07 is deleted and substituted by the following;
 
"Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Arrears Reduction 
Plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(b)
As part of the foregoing, not later than July 31, 1988, the 
Borrower shall 
make, or cause to be made, arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank to compensate adequately 
Electrificadora del Atlantico, S.A. for all arrears 
of, and ensure timely payment of current 
billings by Empresas Publicas 
Municipales de Barranquilla;
(c)
The date for executing agreements for the payment of Departmental 
arrears to  
the Electric Power Companies set forth in Attachment 4 of the letter of 
September 11, 1987 
describing the Program is hereby extended from March 30, 1988 to 
September 30, 1988.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth in this Amendment Letter.
The amendments set forth in this Amendment Letter shall come into force and 
effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower the notice referred 
to in Section 12.03 (a) of the General Conditions with respect to the Loan Agreement.
Sincerely yours,
CONFIRMED:
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA                
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ LUIS FERNANDO ALARCON MANTILLA
By /s/ PING-CHOUNG LOH
Minister of Finance and Public      
Director
   Credit                            
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
