Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2889 CO
(Power Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 16, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2889 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated September 11, 1987, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the efficiency of its
electric power sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
the financing of imports required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower intends to borrow, or cause to be borrowed, from lenders 
outside Colombia other than the Bank (hereinafter called the External Lenders), an 
amount equivalent to about one billion thirty million  dollars ($1,030,000,000) 
(hereinafter called the Additional Financing) to assist in the financing of the 
Program; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
Page  2
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General  Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the  several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"ICEL Group" means the following group of companies operating in the 
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Colombia: Instituto 
Colombiano de Energia Electrica
(ICEL), Empresa Antioquena de Energia S.A., Electrificadora de Boyaca S.A., Central 
Hidroelectrica de Caldas S.A., Electrificadora del Caqueta S.A., Centrales Electricas 
del Cauca S.A., Electrificadora de Cundinamarca S.A., Electrificadora del Choco S.A., 
Electrificadora del Huila S.A., Electrificadora del Meta S.A., Centrales Electricas de 
Narino S.A., Centrales Electricas del
Norte de Santander S.A., Electrificadora de Santander S.A., and Electrificadora del 
Tolima S.A;
(d)
"CORELCA Group" means the following group of companies operating in the 
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Colombia: Corporacion 
Regional de la Costa
Atlantica (CORELCA), Electrificadora del Atlantico S.A., Electrificadora de Bolivar 
S.A., Electrificadora del Cesar S.A., Electrificadora de Cordoba S.A., Electrificadora 
de la Guajira S.A., Electrificadora del Magdalena S.A., Electrificadora de Sucre S.A., 
and Electricadora de San Andres y Providencia S.A.;
(e)
"EEEB" means Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota;
 
(f)
"ISA" means Interconexion Electrica S.A.;
 
(g)
"FEN" means Financiera Electrica Nacional S.A;
 
(h)
"EPM" means Empresas Publicas de Medellin;
Page  3
(i)
"CVC" means Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca;
 
(j)
"Electric Power Companies" means the following companies operating in the 
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Colombia referred to 
collectively: the ICEL Group,
the CORELCA Group, EEEB, EPM, CVC and ISA;
(k)
"Sector" means the Borrower's Electric Power Sector which includes all 
Electric Power Companies;
(l)
"1987-1990 Sector Investment Program" means the Sector's investment 
program and financial plan for the years 1987 through 1990 furnished to the Bank by 
the Borrower as Attachment 5 to the letter describing the Program, as such Program 
shall be updated pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Least-cost Investment Program" means the Program referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4A to this Agreement;
(n)
"Guavio Program" means the action plan to address the financial, 
managerial, social and environmental issues related to the execution and operation of 
the Guavio hydroelectric project, provided for in Attachment 2 to the letter 
describing the Program;
(o)
"ISA Social and Ecological Program" means ISA's action program referred 
to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(p)
"Loss Reduction Program" means the Borrower's plan to reduce energy 
losses by the Electric Power Companies provided for in the attachment 3 to the 
Program;
(q)
"Financial Rehabilitation Plans" means the financial rehabilitation 
action plans for the ICEL Group and the CORELCA Group provided for in the Attachment 1 
to the Program;
(r)
"Arrears Reduction Plan" means the action plan aimed at reducing the 
arrears of the Borrower and all of its agencies and all entities owned, administered 
or controlled by the Borrower to the Electric Power Companies provided for in the 
Attachment 4 to the Program;
(s)
"Management Improvement Plans" means the action plans, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to address management problems of the ICEL Group, the CORELCA Group and 
EEEB; and
(t)
"Resolution No. 86" means Resolution No. 86 of November 1986 issued by 
Junta Nacional de Tarifas of the Borrower, as such resolution may be amended from time 
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section "Interest Period" means the six-month period 
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) Banco de la Republica is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts Banco de la Republica with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence 
to be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $5,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions
specified in Schedules 4A and 4B to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1988 and 
December 31, 1989, update the 1987-1990 Sector Investment Program in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
For such purposes, not later than October 31, 1988 and October 31, 1989, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on the status of execution, financing 
plan and proposed revisions to the 1987-1990 Sector Investment Program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
cause ISA to: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 
31, 1988, an action program, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which ISA shall 
develop and implement (or cause the implementation of) solutions for ecological and 
social problems affecting the Sector; and (ii) carry out such program and ISA's social 
and ecological responsibilities in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
cause the ICEL Group and the CORELCA Group to: (i) carry out their 
respective Financial Rehabilitation Plan in a manner and according to timetables, 
Page  5
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) carry out their respective Management Improvement 
Plan in a manner and according to a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
cause EEEB to: (i) furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1989, its 
respective Management Improvement Plan; and (ii) carry out such plan in a manner and 
according to a timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. Not later than March 31, 1988, the Borrower shall put into effect 
a system, satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the performance of the Electric Power 
Companies and the
compliance by the Electric Power Companies with the targets set forth in the Program.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the Electric Power 
Companies to carry out the Loss Reduction Program in a manner and according to a 
timetable, satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out the Arrears Reduction Plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.09. Taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, the Borrower 
shall carry out the recommendations of the study entitled "Mecanismos Juridicos para 
Page  6
el Tratamiento de los Usos Ilegales de Energia Electrica" (the study on the Borrower's 
legal framework related to the illegal use of electricity), dated December 30, 1987, 
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
that the Program or the 1987-1990 Investment Program or the Guavio 
Program or the ISA Social and Ecological Program or the Loss Reduction Program or the 
Financial Rehabilitation Plans or the Arrears Reduction Plan or the Management 
Improvement Plans shall have been amended to an extent that, in the Bank's reasonable 
opinion, the Program will fail to meet its operational, financial, ecological or 
social objectives; and
(c)
that the Borrower shall have failed to carry out the provisions of 
Resolution No. 86 or Resolution No. 86 shall have been repealed or amended to an 
extent which, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, it shall adversely affect the 
execution of the Program or the financial situation of the Sector or of any of the 
Electric Power Companies.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that an amount equivalent to $200,000,000 of Additional 
Financing, from the External Lenders, have been secured in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank or a contingent financial plan, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been put 
into effect.
Section 5.02. The date June 16, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as  representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
44473 MHAC CO
Bogota
Page  7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Victor Mosquera-Chaux
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
 -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
 -
Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco
refuse
122
 -
Tobacco, manufactured
 
667
 -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
Page  8
688 
 -
Uranium depleted in U235 and 
thorium, and their alloys, un-
wrought or wrought, and articles 
therefor, n.e.s.; waste and
scrap of uranium depleted
in U235 and of thorium
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof, n.e.s. 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares (including set gems)
-
971.0
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$150,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after April 1, 1987;
(d)
payments made for expenditures equivalent to less than $50,000;
 
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency shall have financed or agreed to 
finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
3.
(a)
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the 
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall 
have reached the equivalent of $150,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 4A to 
this Agreement have been taken.
(b)
If, after such exchange of views described in sub-paragraph (a) 
immediately preceding, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
4.
(a)
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the 
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall 
have reached the equivalent of $225,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions 
described in Schedule 4B to this Agreement have been taken.
(b)
If, after such exchange of views described in sub-paragraph (a) 
immediately preceding, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after 
Page  9
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1:
beginning August 1, 1992
through August 1, 2004
11,540,000
 
On February 1, 2005
11,500,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on 
the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
.18
before maturity
More than three years but
.35
not more than six years
Page  10
before maturity
More than six years but
.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
.88
more than 15 years
   before maturity
More than 15 years before
      1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms: 
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 
each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the 
purchaser of such goods.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
Page  11
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such 
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such contract.
5.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to contracts 
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the 
basis of statements of
expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4A
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) (ii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower shall have taken, or caused to be taken, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank, the following actions:
1.
The Energy Board proposed law shall have been enacted or, in the event that such 
proposed law is not enacted, the Borrower shall have taken all action as shall be 
necessary for the achievement of the policy objectives of such proposed law.
2.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank the draft of a least-cost 
expansion program for the generation and transmission of electricity, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the period of 1991 through 2000.
3.
Satisfactory progress shall have been achieved in the carrying out of the 
1987-1990 Sector Investment Program.
4.
Satisfactory progress shall have been achieved in the implementation of the 
Guavio Program, the ISA Social and Ecological Program, the Loss Reduction Program, the 
Arrears Reduction Plan and the Financial Rehabilitation Plans.
5.
The Borrower shall have submitted drafts, satisfactory to the Bank, of the 
Management Improvement Plans, other than the Management Improvement Plans for ICEL, 
CORELCA and EEEB.
For the purposes of this Schedule "Energy Board proposed law" means the proposed 
law submitted by the Borrower to its Congress in November 1986, providing for the 
establishment of an energy board.
SCHEDULE 4B
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) (ii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower shall have taken, or caused to be taken, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank, the following actions:
1.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank: (a) the Least-Cost Investment 
Program for the Sector, satisfactory to the Bank, for the period 1991 through 2000; 
and (b) an updated 1987-1990 Sector Investment Program, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
ISA shall have been assigned the ownership, construction, and operation of all 
future major generating plants and major transmission lines in Colombia, except as 
such ownership, construction
or operation shall have been exempted or delegated under the provisions of the 
Program.
3.
The Borrower shall have submitted the Management Improvement Plans for the ICEL 
Group, the CORELCA Group, and EEEB.
4.
Satisfactory progress shall have been achieved in the implementation of the 
Guavio Program, the ISA Social and Ecological Plan, the Loss Reduction Program, the 
Arrears Reduction Plan and the Financial Rehabilitation Plans.
5.
The Borrower shall have obtained commitments for at least $250,000,000 (in 
addition to the  amount referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement) of Additional 
Page  12
Financing or for purposes of
the contingent financial plan referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
"major generating plant" means any generating plant with an installed 
capacity of 100 megawatts or more; and
(b)
"major transmission lines" means all transmission lines connecting the 
major generating plants to the national grid and all transmission lines 
interconnecting the areas served by the Electric Power Companies that have 
participation in ISA's capital.
