Report No. PID8738
Project Name                     Honduras-Economic & Financial Management...
Technical Assistance
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Public Financial Management; Privatization;
Other Public Sector Management
Project ID                       HNPE60785
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Implementing Agency              Secretariats of Presidency and Finance & CGR
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Honduran public sector has suffered from: an over-extension of the State
apparatus at both the Central and Decentralized Administrations; overlapping
and unclear demarcation of responsibilities within the Central Government,
leading to lack of coordination; multiple and sometimes contradictory lines
of authority and responsibility over the Decentralized Administration; weak
public sector management; excessive and improper composition of public
employment; inadequate level of remuneration and high compression of the
salary scale; and absence of public sector personnel policies. This caused
widespread inefficiencies in providing essential public services and
contributed to the deterioration of the quality of life of the general
population and of the poor in particular.
Several other areas of Government economic and financial stewardship need to
be addressed by the Government as well. In particular, since the financial
management system (SIAFI) strategy is just now being implemented, the role of
the rector agencies still has to be reformed and strengthened to adapt to the
new approach and requirements of modern public finance management. The
Budget Office focuses too much on micro-management of the budget execution,
and public finance management is highly centralized in this office.
The Office of the Comptroller General (CGR) has the responsibility for
recording and consolidating all financial transactions of the Government as
well as for establishing accounting norms and practices. However, the CGR is
not prepared institutionally or in terms of personnel to carry out these
functions. The annual report prepared by CGR offers little guidance to the
annual budget-making process and provides virtually no control over finances.
The Treasury is yet to fully develop its main functions of financial
programming and cash flow management. In the area of governance, the CGR has
insufficient capacity to carry out its responsibility of external audit
control. Submission of its audit report to congress is several years behind
The Law of Municipalities calls for the decentralization of tax revenues but



not the decentralization of expenditures. Municipalities are thus able to
increase their revenues but without being accountable for additional services
actually paid for by the Central Government--thereby increasing the total
expenditure level and the overall deficit of the consolidated public sector.
To deal with these issues, the Government's strategy has concentrated on
three major areas: (i) reform of public service sectors, which includes
establishing a modern regulatory (legal-institutional) framework to promote
de-monopolization and market development, including introduction of sound
pricing policies and the promotion of private sector participation in the
provision of these services; (ii) administrative reform including
institutional restructuring of key ministries, and employment
rationalization; and (iii) improvement of the main horizontal public
management systems.
When the Government launched a reform program within the framework of its
1995 Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP), it called on the Bank and
other donors for assistance. In consonance with the Government's reform
strategy, the Bank's PSMSAC and PSMTAC have provided support to all three
reform areas in the context of the Government's PSMP. At the center of the
PSMP is the development of a comprehensive framework to reduce the size of
the State and increase private sector participation in the provision of
public services. This was needed to restore sustainable fiscal and
macroeconomic stability, and bring current expenditures to a level consistent
with a stable or declining level of indebtedness.
In this regard, the PSMSAC/TAC have led to privatization actions,
governmental restructuring, employment and salary regime rationalization, and
the implementation of the first phase of an integrated financial management
system for the public sector
In the area of privatization, actions include: in telecommunications, the
approval of a framework law which redistributed state responsibilities in the
sector and created a relatively autonomous regulatory body (CONATEL) , and
mandates private sector participation in the provision of public services.
In addition, Hondutel is transferring operational responsibilities to
COHDETEL, which will be privatized, with the process expected to be completed
by mid 2000. In the electricity sector, a Framework Law was approved in 1994
that mandates privatization of the distribution companies, and establishes a
basis for tariff adjustment. A new, single regulatory entity was established
in 1998. A new, more comprehensive law has been sent to Congress, which,. if
approved, will provide a better basis for the privatization of the
distribution companies, possibly by end 2000/early 2001, and will open the
door to a comprehensive electricity sector reform. In civil aviation, the
concession law was approved in January 1999. The Government is embarked on a
process that would grant a master concession of the four international
airports, and it is anticipated that contract award will take place no later
than mid 2000. The new draft Civil Aviation Law, which is currently being
debated in Congress, inter alia, establishes a financially autonomous
regulatory entity, and an open sky policy.
The CPME developed restructuring plans for the Secretariats of Education,
Health, Communications and Transport, Natural Resources, plus the
Decentralized Administrations. Several Secretariats already have implemented
them. The institutional restructuring plans called for the substantial
reduction of permanent employment and other personnel expenditures
-2 -



The restructuring of the Government under the PSMP resulted in the
elimination of SECPLAN and the transfer of policy formulation, technical
cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency, and the consolidation
of financial management and investment programming in the MOF. Two key
objectives in the areas transferred to the MOF have been largely achieved
under the PSMSAC and PSMTAC: the development of the integrated financial
management system (SIAFI), the centerpiece of the Government's program, and
the institutionalization of the public investment system (SISPU). The
transfer of policy-related matters to the Presidency, however, has proven
more difficult, not because of the lack of political will, but because of the
inherent complexities and number of institutions involved and generally weak
public sector management.
The formulation, implementation and evaluation of public sector policies
involve the President, the Council of Ministers, the Economic, Social and
Reconstruction Cabinets, assisted by UNAT, the Ministry of the Presidency,
the MOF and SETCO and the sector ministries through their planning and
evaluation units (UPEGs). The President determines the plans and programs of
the Government and transmits these to the ministries and other public
entities. By law, the programming of public investment is based on: the
priorities established by the President with the advice of SETCO; the public
investment and expenditure policies approved by the Economic Cabinet; and the
investment projects prepared by the UPEGs in accordance with the already-
agreed priorities of their respective sectors. The MOF prepares the Public
Investment Program in accordance with the guidelines established by the
Economic Cabinet and the inputs from the sectors.
With the restructuring, it was expected that the line ministries would assume
responsibility for planning and evaluation through the UPEGs; and that the
ministries, including the UPEGs, would be strengthened through projects
financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies. However, although the
donor-financed projects invariably include institutional development
components, they have not focused on planning and evaluation at the
ministerial level. Moreover, the projects financed by the donor agencies are
not incorporated into the budget planning of the line ministries. As a
result, the UPEGs, having contributed little to date, require strengthening
in the areas for which they are responsible: planning, preparation and
evaluation of investment projects and operational programs, and formulation
of policies.
Employment and salary regime rationalization also occurred. The number of
positions was reduced within groups in the Central Government and the
Decentralized Institutions (excluding medical doctors and paramedics, defense
and civil police), at greater than the legal requirement of 10. (in reality
17Th). Also, salary adjustments were granted to technical and professional
employees that favor decompression of salaries. And there continues to be
satisfactory monitoring of employment reductions in the Central Government,
with improvement in monitoring of the decentralized institutions.
The implementation of Integrated Financial Management and Investment
Programming has advanced by: eliminating duplications in the budget process
and simplifying procedures. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has
developed all the main modules needed for a modern integrated financial
management system. Also, SIAFI methods and tools were used to formulate the
1999 national budget, while the budget execution component was implemented in
- 3 -



July 1999. The implementation of SIAFI in the Central Government is underway
in five pilot agencies. Finally, efforts are also underway to strengthen
linkages between the human resource management system and payroll systems.
2. Objectives
The proposed project would contribute to Government efforts to reduce
poverty, revive and accelerate growth, and promote sustainable development.
Its objective is to deepen public sector reforms by improving transparency
and accountability in the management and control of public finances and human
resources; and developing budgetary planning and evaluation capacity in core
public sector institutions, with emphasis on social sector and infrastructure
ministries. The project would continue support to private sector development
initiatives, including further development of regulatory frameworks. The
result would be significantly improved planning, use and control of
financial, physical and human resources, and increased cost effectiveness of
selected public agencies' operational programs
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed Economic and Financial Management Credit adds value by helping
to rebuild the capacity of core ministries and to provide the basis for the
continued deepening of public sector reforms, especially personnel policies
and systems, as well as the expansion of SIAFI and the development of
planning, monitoring, and evaluation capacity. The Bank also will support
good governance and transparency in public accounts and anti-corruption
efforts through reforms in accountability systems in the CGR and throughout
the public sector. The process of privatization will be continued and
expanded in telecommunications, electricity, civil aviation, to provide the
basis for economic recovery and productivity, as well as stimulate private
sector investment. This effort is complementary to on-going efforts by other
donors, particularly IDB in the area of public procurement reform; USAID in
the social sectors of health and education, and TA to UNAT and the Ministry
of Agriculture; and UNDP in the development of information systems, as well
as support for the 2000 National Census and National Institute of Statistics
with funding from SIDA.
4. Description
I. Public Finance Management and Internal Control. The MOF is implementing a
broad strategy to reform and improve financial management throughout the
public sector. To continue with this effort would require building adequate
technical and managerial capacity within MOF to prepare designated ministries
and decentralized entities for successful implementation. This will be
especially important for the ministries of education and health, which
comprise the majority of personnel in the public sector and require strong
financial management and control. Moreover, MOF will require strengthening
of its capacity for economic management. This component comprises two sub-
components essential to meet these needs:
Strategic implementation of SIAFI across the public sector, including the
Central Government and the Decentralized Administration. This sub-component
consolidates progress made under the PSMTAC (Cr. 2814-HO) in supporting the
development of: (i) a comprehensive and integrated finance information system
for the whole public sector; (ii) accuracy and transparency in the recording
- 4 -



and reporting of the economic activities of the Government; and (iii) a
framework for internal control in the public sector to ensure an
accountability regime, while building the foundation of a sound external
control system. The new operation would finance: (i) the expansion of SIAFI
coverage (including the purchase of needed hardware and software); (ii)
completing the implementation of SIAFI within the MOF and core ministries,
including areas of budget, accounting, treasury and debt management; (iii)
expanding the SIAFI strategy to the Decentralized Administration; (iv)
harmonizing the structure of the government's accounting function; (v)
institutionalizing and implementing an adequate system of internal control
and audit within all branches of government; and (vi) developing a training
program on public finance.
Strengthening of the MOF institutionally to carry out its core functions
successfully. This sub-component supports: (a) completion of the
organizational restructuring of the MOF; (b) development of the technical
ability to formulate coordinate, execute and evaluate policies related to
public finances and the general budget concerning income and expenditures in
line with strategies defined by the Office of the President; (c) preparation
of manuals containing norms, systems configurations, methods and procedures
for core areas of the MOF; (d) development of agency-wide performance
measures; (e) developing an appropriate training plan and program to meet
knowledge and skill gaps among technical and professional personnel; (f)
establishment of an internal and public communications unit; and (i)
strengthening the Planning and Evaluation Unit (UPEG) through specialized
training in the analysis and design of policies and programs based on budget
and public investment policy and official directives of the Office of the
President.
II. Administrative and Technical Restructuring of the Comptroller General's
Office (CGR). This component builds (i) on the experience of the Bank's
region-wide initiative to support the strengthening and modernization of the
supreme audit institutions (SAI) of member countries as part of an overall
strategy to promote transparency and accountability in the public sector and
Government affairs, as well as (ii) on decades of technical assistance to CGR
by USAID from Honduras and El Salvador. In the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch,
a new dimension and focus for external control systems is needed.
Consequently, the organization of SAI will now be primarily aimed at
ensuring social controls and reporting on the economy, efficiency and
effectiveness of government and public sector operations, with special
emphasis on the utilization of all funds channeled to the reconstruction
process (national, international, and bilateral agreements with foreign
donors).
This component will support the development of a strong, capable and
independent SAI which will: monitor the performance of the public sector and
other branches of Government in order to ascertain that they operate
according to accountability, transparency, legal and ethical criteria; and
serve these Government entities as a center of financial and administrative
advise for the prevention of fraud, waste and abuse in government and the
improvement of public sector activities.
Assistance to be provided would be aimed at: (i) restructuring the CGR's
administrative and technical organization; (ii) preparing standards and
procedures for CGR's to carry out the different types of audits and for the
- 5 -



evaluation of national programs, both routine and centered on the
reconstruction program; (iii) institutionalizing the internal control system
within the Executive; (iv) decentralization of the control function; (v)
promoting the social controllership through popular participation; (vi)
providing the CGR with basic computer, transport and technical equipment;
(vii) installing an information network within SIAFI that will permit CGR to
have direct access to accounting and financial transactions and reporting
from the Central/Decentralized Administration; and (viii) designing and
conducting a comprehensive Training Program in Public Financial Management,
Control, Audit and Evaluation to be offered to CGR staff and selected
officers from the Central Administration and decentralized entities,
including municipalities.
III. Human Resource Management. PSMP employment reduction targets have been
exceeded in a consistent manner since 1994. Employment monitoring mechanisms
are in place for Central Government and Decentralized institutions, with
improved data quality efforts in the latter. A central employment data base
is operating in the Civil Service Office (DGSC) in the Office of the
Presidency, and the data are consistent with the payroll data base in SEFIN.
With the assistance of a consultant firm, a comprehensive human resource
management system for the civil service was designed and, in preparation for
July 1999 salary increases, all civil service posts were classified into
broad categories. Since then, the implementation phase of the human resource
management system has begun with full speed in grading and remuneration
areas. This phase also contemplates mechanisms to help operationalize the
Secretariat of Health's institutional reform by identification of paramedics
positions and staff, and the development of an organizational structure for
posts within all central offices and hospitals. Initial work on the
institutional restructuring of DGSC and training of personnel staff in
ministries will also be included in this phase.
The proposed operation would continue to support employment and salary
reforms and modernization of the human resource management and control
systems. The new project will finance the expansion of the Human Resource
Information System and its integration with SIAFI through the payroll module
in the ministries, and provide support to modernize the payroll system for
teachers, which is coordinated through SEFIN. It will support the line
ministries in the integration of the human resources administrative system by
strengthening the human resources sub-directorates in the line ministries
(Education, Health, Agriculture, SOPTRAVI, and SERNA). This will require
implementation of advances in the legal/normative, institutional and
operational levels.
Areas include: (a) strengthening and support for institutional restructuring;
training of personnel in new functions, and a new role of DGSC as a normative
and rector institution. (b) installation of the other subsystems developed
during the design phase--provision of positions (selection and recruitment)
and control systems (auditing and census); (c) extension of the information
system, including its integration of the new classification system and
associated requirements with SIAFI; (d) support for the development of legal
norms required by the new system, including: modifications to the law or new
lays for the Civil Service, harmonization of the law with all other norms,
particularly the budget law of SIAFI.
Other types of support that would be necessary directed to the ministries
- 6 -



include: support to the human resources sub-directorates through training in
the new systems, basic computer equipment, and internal human resource
systems (manuals of norms and procedures).
Another area that has not been addressed but which is contemplated for
support is formulation of plans for voluntary retirement, as a complement to
employment rationalization. This would include studies and calculation of
the resources needed to fund such a program, as well as a strategy for
implementation. With respect to the teacher salary regime, support would be
continued, especially in the development of an information system not only at
the central level but at the regional as well.
IV. Developing Planning and Evaluation Institutional Capacity. The project
would support the Government's institutional reform efforts to improve the
formulation, implementation and evaluation of public sector policies and
programs. The project would support the strengthening of planning and
evaluation capacity in key ministries, and the upgrading of the public
information infrastructure in order to inform planning and budgeting, provide
an empirical basis for policy and decision making, and establish the
social/poverty data base needed for formulating and evaluating a
comprehensive, outcome-oriented poverty reduction strategy. The outcome of
these efforts would be better planning, monitoring and evaluation of policies
and programs.
The project would focus on institution building in the public sector by
creating a sound planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity in core
government ministries, including the Ministries of Health, Education,
Agriculture, SOPTRAVI, and SERNA. The project would finance the
strengthening of UPEGs and the administrative units (GAs) in these key
ministries in close collaboration with the MOF and implementation of SIAFI.
Planning and evaluation would be further strengthened by supporting the
application of measurement methodologies, such as the logical framework, and
the development of performance indicators for projects, programs and sectors.
The project would integrate donor financing into the budget planning and
evaluation process and support the further development and application of
information systems to track and coordinate aid flows.
The project would support Government efforts to modernize the production and
use of statistics, including the National Statistical Institute (INE), which
is expected to be approved by Congress in February/March and will be located
in the Ministry of the Presidency. The project would improve the management
and implementation capacity of the public information infrastructure to
produce and disseminate data from the 2000 National Census, as well as
poverty data and social indicators. The project would thus complement and
strengthen the Bank's support to the Government through analytical work and
technical assistance -i.e., the Poverty Assessment Update and MECOVI Program
(in collaboration with IDB and CEPAL). This component would finance
consultant services, studies, training, equipment (hardware and software) and
study tours. The GOH would be asked to commit counterpart funding to ensure
the financing of surveys and operational costs of the INE.
V. Consolidating Reforms to Regulatory Frameworks and Broadening
Privatization Efforts. The purpose of the new operation in this area will be
to continue supporting Government's ongoing efforts to consolidate regulatory
authorities and legal frameworks and to reduce the scope of State
- 7 -



intervention in the provision of public services. The project would better
serve the population by promoting efficiency while protecting consumer and
investor interests. This component will comprise the following sub-
components:
Technical support for private sector development initiatives, and
strengthening the capacity of the Consultative Commission for Privatization
(CCP). This sub-component would continue progress attained in the
telecommunications, civil aviation, and electricity privatization processes
under the PSMTAC through financing of marketing efforts and specialized
consultancies. In order to strengthen Executive Secretariat's capacity of
the CCP to coordinate ongoing privatization efforts in these, as well as
other possible sectors, the operation would continue to finance studies by
area specialists and targeted training;
The project would support establishment of modern regulatory frameworks and
strengthening of regulatory authorities (institutional development and
training) to consolidate private sector participation in the provision of
public services. Private sector participation in the operation, maintenance
and development of the ports and potentially other state-owned infrastructure
sectors, would be identified and agreed with the government.
Preliminary costs of each component are as follows: Total US$17m
I. Public Finance Management and Internal Control    US$5.2m
II. Administrative and Technical Restructuring of the Comptroller General of
the Republic   US$2.5m
III. Human Resource Management    US$2.6m
IV. Developing Planning and Evaluation Institutional Capacity     US$2.2m
V. Consolidating Reforms to Regulatory Frameworks and Broadening
Privatization Efforts US$3.Om
VI. Project Management US$1.5m
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               2.0
IBRD
IDA                                      15.0
Total Project Cost                       17.0
6. Implementation
Institutional strengthening is a major element in the Country Assistance
Strategy for Honduras. As such the operation is designed to strengthen the
capacity of key public sector agencies in the areas of economic and financial
management. Implementation arrangements will be fined-tuned during pre-
appraisal/appraisal. One of the main objectives of the proposed credit is to
improve the public sector budget planning, monitoring, and evaluation
process. The implementation arrangements will require close coordination and
collaboration among the Ministries of the Presidency and Finance and the CGR
and with the line ministries, and eventually the lower administrative levels
of these ministries. Because coordination capacity is quite weak, special
attention would be given to strengthening this area during the preparation
period, with emphasis on inter-sectoral and donor coordination, strategic
budget planning and programming, and evaluation capacity development.
- 8 -



7. Sustainability
The proposed Economic and Financial Management credit builds on the reform
achievements under the ongoing PSMTAC and PSMSAC. The important legal and
institutional reforms being introduced under these operations have helped to
create an environment propitious to sustaining the gains expected under the
project and expanding the scope of public sector economic and financial
management reforms. The institutionally weak capacity in the public sector
is a major risk, especially in line ministries. Institution-building is a
major objective of the credit and should ultimately offset this risk.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed credit incorporates the following lessons. Public sector work
in LAC has pointed to the value of broad-based approaches to project design,
such as that adopted in the proposed operation. In complex public sector
environments, such as Honduras, this approach facilitates the identification
of major issues and systemic distortions that need to be addressed before
deep policy and institutional reforms can occur. Essentially to design
viable public sector reform programs, a global understanding of public sector
structure, function, and characteristics is required. Economic and sector
work and background studies were conducted as part of the preparation of the
PSMTAC and PSMSAC. Privatization initiatives of any scale also need strong
government commitment and adequate capacity, especially since legal changes
generally are a prerequisite before privatization of public assets can take
place. Important privatization initiatives were a part of the PSMSAC/TAC and
will be further expanded in the proposed credit. In addition, there is a
need to convince both the Government and the private sector that an enabling
political and economic framework is in place and stable enough to assure that
private investments are safeguarded. There is a consensus and commitment by
the Government to develop this framework more fully.
Perhaps one of the most important lessons learned is the need to foster a
sense of teamwork between the Bank and the Government, as well as with other
donors. This has been shown to be an essential ingredient to the success of
any comprehensive public sector modernization program. The operation is
structured specifically around the partnership between the Government, the
Bank, and other donors to meet the pressing social and economic social needs
of Honduras. The project design will allow for sufficient flexibility to
incorporate the PER and Infrastructure Assessment findings relevant to this
operation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        None at present
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
-9-



Task Manager
A. C. Martin Del Campo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-9217
Fax:        (202) 522-3133
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 25, 2000.
- 10 -



