                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000319




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34140 IDA-3414A)




                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.4 MILLION
                       (US$ 19.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                    FOR A

           ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                 March 30, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective)

                                    Currency Unit = Lempiras
                                          1.00 = US$ 0.053
                                          US$ 1.00 = 18.9

                                         FISCAL YEAR 07

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy        M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
CCP            Consultative Commission for        PAC          Procurement Annual Plan
               Privatization                      PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
CFAA           Country Financial and              PDO          Project Development Objective
               Accountability Assessment          PREM         Poverty Reduction and Economic
CGR            Comptroller General Office                      Management Department
CONASA         Water and Sanitation National      PRS          Poverty Reduction Strategy
               Commission                         PRSC         Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
CPAR           Country Procurement and            PRSTAC       Poverty Reduction Strategy
               Accountability Review                           Technical Assistance Credit
CPME           National Commission for State      PSMP         Public Sector Modernization
               Modernization                                   Program
DGSC           Civil Service Directorate          PSMSAC       Public Sector Modernization
EFMTAC         Economic and Financial                          Structural Adjustment Credit
               Management Technical Assistance    PSMTAC       Public Sector Modernization
               Credit                                          Technical Assistance Credit
ENEE           Energy and Electricity National    PSR          Project Status Report
               Company                            QAG          Quality Assurance Group
ERSAPS         Sector Regulator for Water and     SAANA        Water and Sanitation National
               Sanitation                                      Service
FHIS           Social Investment Fund             SECPLAN      Secretariat of Planning
FPSI           Financial, Private Sector and      SEFIN        Secretariat of Finance
               Infrastructure Department          SIAFI        Integrated Financial Management
HONDUCOR       Honduran Postal National Company                Information System
HONDUTEL       Honduran Telecom National          SIARH        Human Resource Management
               Company                                         Information System
ICR            Implementation Completion and      SISPU        Public Investment Information
               Results Report                                  System
IDA            International Development          TTL          Task Team Leader
               Association                        UNAT         Technical Support Unit of the
IDB            Inter American Development Bank                 Presidency Office
IMF            International Monetary Fund        UPEGs        Planning, evaluation and
IPR            Independent Procurement Review                  management units
ISR            Implementation Status and Results
               report


           Vice President: Pamela Cox
         Country Director: Jane Armitage
    Acting Sector Manager: Fernando Rojas
      Project Team Leader: Alberto Leyton
        ICR Team Leader: Alberto Leyton

                                            HONDURAS
                    Economic and Financial Management Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Rating: Substantial) ...................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 33
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       HN ECONOMIC &
Country:                Honduras                Project Name:          FIN.MANAGEMENT
                                                                       PROJECT
Project ID:             P060785                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34140,IDA-3414A
ICR Date:               03/29/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                       HONDURAS
Original Total
                        XDR 14.4M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 14.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
CPME
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/15/2000    Effectiveness:         04/03/2001        04/03/2001
Appraisal:             04/25/2000    Restructuring(s):                        12/30/2003
Approval:              09/12/2000    Mid-term Review:       07/07/2003        07/07/2003
                                     Closing:               08/31/2004        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                          Primary        Secondary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                             Primary         Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                 Primary         Primary
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary         Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Fernando Rojas                     Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:       Alberto Leyton                     AntonioMartin DelCampo
ICR Team Leader:           Alberto Leyton
ICR Primary Author:        Graciela Cintora
                           Carmen Machicado



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project supports the Honduran Government's efforts to improve transparency and
accountability in the use and allocation of public resources; develop a budgetary planning
and evaluation capacity in key government agencies; promote institutional restructuring



                                                ii

within the telecommunications, ports and postal services sectors; and strengthen the
technical capacity of the regulatory entities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
                                                approval         Target    Completion or
                                              documents)         Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Upgraded financial management information system has been developed and
                implemented in the Central Administration
                                                                         SIAFI is fully

Value           Old SIAFI partially        Full integration of           operating in the

quantitative or covering Ministry of       FM systems under              central

Qualitative)    Finance operations         SIAFI                         administration and
                                                                         integrating all FM
                                                                         functions
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/30/2005                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Fully accomplished
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Normative framework for public employment has been established
                                                                         New normative
                                                                         framework for civil

Value                                      New normative                 service is partially

quantitative or Old civil service law with framework for                 in place. Only a

Qualitative)    very weak compliance       civil service in              new law to regulate
                                           place                         public sector
                                                                         compensations was
                                                                         enacted
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/30/2005                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Barely or not accomplished
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   External Control system restructured and strengthened
                                                                         Tribunal Superior
Value           New Tribunal Superior de Tribunal    Superior            de Cuentas was
quantitative or Cuentas created with very  de Cuentas fully              strengthened with
Qualitative)    weak capacities            operational with
                                           qualified personnel           more capable
                                                                         personnel
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/30/2005                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Significantly accomplished
achievement)



                                                iii

Indicator 4 :  Private participation in key public services has been promoted
                                          HONDUTEL,
               Lack of enabling           National Ports                    Telecom and water

Value          normative and regulatory Company and                         and sanitation

quantitative orframework to promote       ENEE restructured                 sectors effectively

Qualitative)   private participation in   and new                           restructured and
               telecom, energy and        regulatory                        delivering
               ports.                     framework in                      improved services
                                          place.
Date achieved 01/01/2004                  12/30/2005                        09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Partially accomplished
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  SIAFI coverage
Value
(quantitative  Secretary of Finance       100% of central                   100% of central

or Qualitative)                           administration                    administration

Date achieved 01/01/2004                  12/30/2005                        09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Fully accomplished
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number os positions effectively accredited under the new civil service system
                                                                            Not implemented
Value                                                                       due to inability to
(quantitative  None                       To be determined                  establish new
or Qualitative)                                                             normative
                                                                            framework
Date achieved 01/01/2004                  12/30/2005                        09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Not accomplished
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  TSC and internal audit units trained in new control procedures
                                          All personnel from                New control
Value                                     TSC and all                       procedures under
(quantitative  None                       internal units for                implementation and
or Qualitative)                           other public                      all TSC personnel
                                          agencies.                         trained.
Date achieved 01/01/2004                  12/30/2005                        09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Significantly accomplished
achievement)



                                               iv

Indicator 4 :   Public services effectively improved as a result of private participation in
                telecom, ports and energy sectors
                HONDUTEL monopoly
                in telecom.                Open market for

Value           All ports managed by       telecom.                            Open market for

(quantitative   public company.            3 ports                             telecom and new

or Qualitative) Inefficient ENEE on        concessions.                        private operators in

                charge of the entire       ENEE                                mobile system

                energy service cycle.      restructured.

Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/30/2005                          09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Partially accomplished
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/24/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     04/25/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  3     12/16/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        3.93
  4     06/16/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        5.25
  5     12/20/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        5.25
  6     05/15/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        6.06
  7     12/09/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        7.67
  8     06/09/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        9.22
  9     12/10/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       11.63
  10    05/04/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       13.51
  11    11/11/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       16.04
  12    07/14/2006      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    18.86



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                ISR Ratings at       Amount

 Restructuring        Board      Restructuring Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)       Approved                      Restructuring
                 PDO Change                                             Key Changes Made
                                   DO       IP       in USD
                                                     millions
   12/30/2003                       S        S           8.03




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

CAS Objectives. The overriding priority of the CAS at the time the project was designed
was the development and implementation of a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy.
According to the strategy, faster growth was the essential component to poverty reduction.
This was to be achieved via a combination of infrastructure rehabilitation, strengthening
of the financial system, and private sector development. Progress would be sustained
through macroeconomic stability, public sector modernization, improved governance and
stronger environmental management and disaster preparedness. The Economic and
Financial Management Technical Assistance Project (EFMTAC) was designed to support
the goals of public sector modernization and improved governance.

Country/Sector Background. The Honduran public sector was characterized by an
overextension of the State apparatus in both the central and decentralized administrations;
weak sector management and coordination; multiple and sometimes contradictory lines of
authority and responsibility over the decentralized administration; poor deployment of
and over-dimensioned human resource complements; low wages and high compression of
the salary scale; and misapplied public sector human resource policies.

In 1995 the Government initiated a Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP)
supported by IDA (Credits 2816-HO and 2814-HO) and other donors. The program
focused on 3 areas: (i) reform of public service sectors via the establishment of a modern
regulatory (legal-institutional) framework to promote de-monopolization and market
development based on the introduction of sound pricing policies and the promotion of
private sector participation in the provision of these services; (ii) public administration
reform through institutional restructuring of secretariats, accompanied by employment
rationalization; and (iii) reform and modernization of key public management systems.

Alongside the PSMP, a Consultative Commission for Privatization (CCP) was created by
the Government in 1995 to spearhead the privatization of selected public enterprises
(focusing on the civil aviation, telecommunications and electricity sectors). Within the
context of the first area of reform of the PSMP, public service sectors, achievements
during a first phase of this program included: (i) the approval of several enabling Laws
and Regulations; (ii) completion of the concession of the four major airports; (iii)
advanced privatization process of HONDUTEL; and (iv) the preparation of a new legal
framework for the electricity sector which would allow privatization of electricity
distribution.

In regards to the second area of reform of the PSMP, public administration, in December
1996, Congress approved reforms to the General Public Administration Law, which had
the effect of encouraging public sector entities to carry out action plans to improve their
performance, most notable of which were the decentralization efforts undertaken by the
Secretariats of Education and Health and the institutional and functional streamlining of



                                             1

planning, economic development and finance functions.           The latter resulted in the
elimination of Secretariat of Planning (SECPLAN) and the transfer of policy formulation,
technical cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency, as well as the
consolidation of financial management and investment programming within the
Secretariat of Finance (SEFIN).

Within the context of the PSMP's third area of reform, modernization of key public
management systems, SEFIN was entrusted with completing the installation of basic
modules of the integrated financial management system (SIAFI) in budget, treasury,
accounting and public credit. A prototype of the system was used in the implementation
of the 1999 budget. After pilot testing, the basic modules and related computer systems
would be installed throughout the Central Government. An Integrated Financial
Management System Law was expected to be submitted to Congress by December 2000
(although this did not take place until 2004) to facilitate the decentralization of financial
management activities throughout the centralized and decentralized institutions.
Additional efforts were underway to integrate the human resource management and
payroll systems into the SIAFI.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. This EFMTAC was designed to continue the actions
outlined in the PSMP by providing TA to support: (i) administrative and public
management reform; (ii) integrated financial management; and (iii) institutional
restructuring in the provision of public services (focusing on the telecommunications,
civil aviation, ports, postal and energy sectors). In addition, since the project was
designed in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, and given that improved governance and
transparency were singled out as key priorities of both the Government's master plan for
reconstruction and its development agenda, the project would likewise support activities
associated with the lack of transparency in public auditing and contracting procedures
and the lack of efficiency and accountability in budget programming, execution,
monitoring and evaluation. At project preparation, a strategic choice was made to group
support for a range of public sector modernization efforts under one project rather than
through a series of operations.

Specifically the project aimed at addressing the following issues:

· Modernizing the State. Following the first phase of the PSMP program, public
    sector institutions remained weak and there was still work to be done in the areas of
    inter-secretarial coordination, system integration and implementation and human
    resources management and reform. With respect to the integrated financial
    management systems, while the SIAFI system was in its implementation phase,
    further development of the accompanying hardware and software and the
    restructuring of SEFIN (the role of the offices of budget, treasury, public credit and
    accounting) were required to ensure that both the system and SEFIN's institutional
    structure were adequately adapted to the new approach and requirements of modern
    public financial management practices. Improving human resource management
    required completing the implementation of the classification of post and remuneration




                                             2

    systems; coordination amongst the secretariats (SEFIN, DGSC and the line
    secretariats); and an integrated informational tool to support the reform.

· Public Enterprise Reform. In the area of public enterprise reform, the major issues
    of concern were the lack of qualified personnel, inadequate training and weak
    regulatory frameworks for public services and infrastructure sectors. The CCP's
    reform agenda required strengthening its capacity to coordinate restructuring efforts.
    The focus of the reform would include the telecommunication, civil aviation and
    energy sectors.

· Governance and Transparency. Restructuring under the first phase of the PSMP
    program eliminated SECPLAN and transferred policy formulation, technical
    cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency. It also consolidated financial
    management and investment programming in SEFIN. While progress was made in the
    latter through the development of the integrated financial management system
    (SIAFI) and the institutionalization of the public investment system (SISPU), this was
    not the case with the transfer of policy issues to the Presidency. The project was
    designed to lend support to line secretariats which, following the restructuring,
    assumed responsibility for the planning and evaluation of their respective programs,
    via their Planning and Evaluation Units (UPEGs). The CGR, which found itself
    unable to meet increased demands resulting from the reconstruction efforts, was to
    receive other donor assistance (IDB) in the areas of monitoring of government
    contracting, while the EFMTAC would support modernization of its auditing
    standards and procedures, and would furthermore provide training and computer
    equipment necessary to upgrade personnel skills and systems. The State Contracting
    Law lacked corresponding regulations, thus promoting conflicting interpretations. No
    uniform organizational mechanisms and systems were in place to facilitate
    procurement transactions and there were no standardized or computerized procedures
    governing same. In order to rectify the latter, the Government requested that the
    Association provide support to complement the IDB's "Improving Efficiency and
    Transparency of Public Procurement Project". Accordingly, the project's design
    included support to training as well as development of a national standardized
    procurement system by co-financing the IDB-financed project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project was designed to support the Honduran Government's efforts to improve
transparency and accountability in the use and allocation of public resources; develop a
budgetary planning and evaluation capacity in key government agencies; promote
institutional restructuring within the telecommunications, ports and postal services
sectors; and strengthens the technical capacity of the regulatory entities.

The key PDO indicators at the time of loan approval were: (i) increased transparency and
accountability in the use of public resources; (ii) standards and procedures for new types
of audits in the new CGR legislation implemented; (iii) rationalization of public sector
employment, improved control of human resources, modernized human resource policies;



                                              3

(iv) increased efficiency and transparency in the procurement of goods and services by
the public sector.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Although the project was restructured during the implementation period, PDO and Key
indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The EFMTAC was designed to help the Government meet the social and infrastructure
needs of the general population more efficiently and economically and with more
likelihood of assistance reaching those further impoverished by Hurricane Mitch. The
Government's PSMP was aimed at promoting and supporting a performance culture and
civil society participation in assessing the performance of public sector programs.
Project support to modernizing human resource management systems was expected to
further professionalize the public sector. Finally, the EFMTAC would serve to create a
public climate that would facilitate public financial management and investment
programming, especially in social sectors.

Although the primary beneficiaries were government agencies, the project was expected
to build transparency and the fight against corruption, which would induce fiscal savings
and facilitate a stringer growth trajectory. These improvements would benefit the general
population as well as bring international credibility to the Government in its effort to
combat corruption and strengthen the governance of the Honduran state.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

There were 6 main original substantive components and one component to support the
project implementing unit:

1. Public Financial Management and Internal Control. This component would strengthen
    SEFIN's institutional capacity to carry out its core functions and complete the
    organizational improvements in SEFIN and in other line Secretariats to support the
    full implementation of SIAFI. The component would also support the strategic
    implementation of SIAFI across the public sector, including the central government
    and decentralized entities.

2. Reorganization of the Comptroller General's Office (CGR). This component would
    support the development of a strong, capable and independent Supreme Audit
    Institution, which will monitor the performance of the public sector and other
    branches of Government in order to ascertain that they operate according to
    accountability, transparency, legal and ethical criteria. The component was intended
    to provide support for the technical reorganization of the CGR, including preparation
    of audit standards; promote social comptrollership; design and implement a



                                              4

   comprehensive training program; and establish an information network within SIAFI
   to enable CGR perform control activities.

3. Human Resource Management. This component would support the Government's
   efforts to improve the policy and management of human resources in the public sector.
   More specifically the component would help the Government implement a new wage
   policy for the central government, implement a human resources management policy
   system for the civil service and an integrated human resource management system
   (SIARH) in all Secretariats and key agencies.

4. Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity. The component would support the
  Government's efforts to develop performance-oriented management and evaluation
  capacity in the public sector by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of resource
  allocation; developing a results-based approach to line management and service
  delivery; and fostering accountability through better management and screening of
  public expenditures. The focus would be on greater use of goal setting, analytical
  techniques in budget and administrative decision-making, and statistical and
  accounting information systems, as well as closer engagement of civil society in
  evaluating public sector performance.

5. Public Procurement. This component would support Government initiatives to
   strengthen State governance and to promote transparency by providing technical
   support and co-financing for the IDB-financed project "Efficiency and Transparency
   of State Purchasing and Contracting (Proyecto de Mejora de la Eficiencia y
   Transparencia en las Compras y Contrataciones del Estado)", in the areas of: (a)
   procurement training and (b) the development of a new national system for the
   procurement of goods and services. Additionally, financing was to be provided for
   consultancies geared to review and ultimately update the existing legal, regulatory
   and institutional frameworks that have a bearing on public sector procurement
   practices.

6. Consolidating Regulatory Reform. This component would continue supporting
   Government's efforts to create adequate legal frameworks and consolidate regulatory
   authorities and to reduce the scope of State intervention in the provision of public
   services. This component would comprise three subcomponents: strengthening of the
   CCP; strengthening of regulatory institutions; and consolidation of public service and
   infrastructure regulatory entities.

7. Project Management. This component would support the Executive Secretariat of the
   CPME by strengthening the operational capacity of the project coordinating unit
   (PCU), which was responsible for the day-to-day management of the project. The
   component would finance the costs of the PCU consultants, equipment and activities
   necessary to manage implementation of the project and to coordinate with the other
   executing agencies-SEFIN, assisted by CCP, and CGR, as well as with the various
   implementing entities.




                                           5

1.6 Revised Components

At the request and in agreement with the Borrower, on June 1, 2003 the loan was
amended to incorporate the following modifications to the original six components: (i)
elimination of component 5 - public procurement thereby allotting entire responsibility
for support to this reform area to the IDB project as this institution has a large already a
large project in place to support this part of the agenda; (ii) change in entity responsible
for component 2 - Reorganization of the Comptroller General's Office to the new
Tribunal Superior de Cuentas, in place of the CGR that was restructured as part of
support provided by the project; (iii) reduction in scope and allocations for components 3
- Human Resource Management, and 4 - Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity,
given the slow implementation of both components and in view of existing constraints
(i.e. delays in the approval of the civil service law) that would affect full achievement of
expected results for both components; and (iv) inclusion of a new component in support
of the Administrative Reform and Public Sector Reengineering initiative which had been
assigned special priority by the new Government.

As a result of project restructuring the new set of components was as follows:

1. Public Financial Management and Internal Control
2. Strengthening of the TSC and Financial Control Systems
3. Human Resource Management
4. Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity
5. Administrative Reform and Public Sector Reengineering
6. Consolidation of Regulatory Reforms
7. Project Management

New funds allocations resulting from the project restructuring were as follows:

                                 Component                      Original Revised
             1. Public Financial Management and Internal            6.61     5.97
                Control
             2. Strengthening of the TSC and Financial Control      2.33     2.33
                Systems
             3. Human Resource Management                           2.06      .92
             4. Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity          1.72      .28
             5. Administrative Reform and Public Sector                0      3.1
                Reengineering
             6. Consolidation of Regulatory Reforms                 4.00     4.82
             7. Project Management                                  1.08     1.58
                               Total Project Costs                  19.0     19.0

1.7 Other significant changes

No other significant changes to project design were experienced during project
implementation. However, there were some relevant changes in the overall context that
affected project implementation: a) two changes in Government administrations that
affected overall country context, changed project general approach and priorities; and



                                                  6

slowed down the implementation process; and b) closer coordination with donors around
existing coordination mechanisms, particularly with the IDB in developing joint
supervision activities and implementation of parallel financing schemes for some project
components (i.e. strengthening of SEFIN and financial management systems).
Implications of these changes on project implementation are discussed further in section
3.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The design of this Project was based on the previous PSMSAC and PSMTAC projects
(Credit 2816-HO and 2814-HO) and the Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP),
taking into account lessons learned and building on progress achieved. A strategic choice
was made to group various public sector reforms and modernization initiatives under one
project, based on positive experience from the predecessor PSMTAC. In the design of
this public sector reform program a global understanding of the public sector structure,
function and characteristics was required. Economic and sector work and background
studies were conducted as part of the preparation of the PSMTAC and PSMSAC. The
project was also designed with sufficient flexibility to incorporate relevant findings
resulting from the ongoing Public Expenditure Review and Infrastructure Assessment.
An important lesson learned was related to the need to establish a strong sense of
teamwork between the Government and the Association. During the preparation of this
operation, important harmonization efforts took place with other donor programs and the
IMF, which together represented important financial and political incentives for the
implementation of the reform program. Project changes took place after two years of
operation and a mid-term review was carried out to adjust project scope and components
to the changing environment emerging from changes in the Government administration.

Normal quality reviews were conducted during project preparation. Technical and
appraisal documents were discussed among Bank teams and other stakeholders in
Government. Besides concerns regarding identified risks and the ambitious scope of
proposed activities, the project was found appropriate and adjusted to the country
priorities that prevailed during project preparation.

The assessment of risks during the preparation of the operation was rated as modest but
substantial in three instances (resistances to the restructuring of the CGR, reactions
against the streamlining of the public sector workforce, and weak leadership and poor
coordination in the management or human resources). However those that proved to be
more challenging and that were short of expectations were not detected: civil sector
reform, institutional restructuring and private sector participation in public services.

Moreover, the complexity of reforms requiring consensus at various levels of political
decision making including the legislative power, and two government administration
changes, were not contemplated in the project's design. There was an over optimistic
time framework for implementation or an over ambitious project scope. In order to



                                              7

mitigate the risk of loosing the momentum of progress achieved and to ensure passage of
reforms and their implementation, the PRSTAC was approved in June 2004 as a
complementary and follow-on operation. The programmatic project approach is highly
desired for this type of reform initiatives to follow up their implementation and to ensure
accomplishment of expected results.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation performance of this project was affected by two changes in
administrations and government officials (2002 and 2006), which likewise resulted in
changes in Government priorities and corresponding amendments to the credit agreement.
The project restructuring carried out in June, 2003 consisted of the elimination of a
component to support the public procurement reform, delegating this responsibility to the
IDB-financed comprehensive Modernization Program on to support the overall
Procurement system reform. The scope of other activities, namely, the Human Resource
Management and the Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity components, were
reduced in view of the slow implementation and changes in Government priorities. New
activities emerged as a result of new priorities and Government initiatives, such as the
Public Sector Reengineering component, as well as additional activities to support
decentralization, e-Government, and simplification of administrative processes initiatives.
In turn, such reorientations and events slowed down the execution pace thereby rendering
it necessary to grant an extension of the project closing date by 18 additional months
followed by two additional extensions for 7 months. Other changes resulted during
execution, such as the conversion of the Comptrollers General Office into the Superior
Audit Institution (the Tribunal Superior de Cuentas, TSC).

This operation was complex in nature due to the number of expected policy reforms that
depended on new laws, and strong political commitment in a changing environment. The
transformation expected in various sectors could not be accomplished in the timeframe
established in the original project design.

Other factors affecting the actual implementation of some elements of project
components were outside the control of the Executive, leaving the approval of several
key Laws to the eventual consideration of important reforms to the Legislative -- most
notable among which were those related to civil service reform and the completion of
public utilities reform.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Timely and permanent monitoring of project implementation was carried out through
supervision missions, and a mid term review took place in early 2003. Semi annual
progress reports were presented during the life of the project. Nine Project Status Reports
(PSRs) and three Implementation Status Results and Reports (ISRs) were completed
following missions to the country.

According to the operation's original design, the key performance indicators were of a
qualitative nature. The monitoring and evaluation mechanism was expected to be based


                                              8

on reports to be generated by the key executing agencies: CPME, CGR, SEFIN, SIAFI,
DGSC and IDA supervision reports provided by the project team. These indicators were
not helpful enough for effective monitoring purposes and therefore the team decided to
adjust them.

Given the need for more meaningful and relevant monitoring and evaluation of project
progress, PDO indicators and Intermediate Outcomes indicators were adjusted in 2005
and were monitored thereafter. The list of selected indicators to improve the monitoring
function is as follows:

PDO Indicators
1.  Upgraded financial management information system has been developed and implemented
2.  Transparency and accountability in the use of public resources has been increased and the external
    control institution has been restructured and strengthened
3.  Normative framework for public employment and compensation has been established
4.  Performance Evaluation Unit (UNAT) is functioning, and the Poverty Reduction Strategy is properly
    monitored and enriched
5.  Comprehensive study for reengineering of the public sector and development of administrative reform
    strategies for pilot agencies have been completed
6.  Private participation in key public services has been promoted and regulatory functions strengthened
    and consolidated
Intermediate outcome indicator(s)
1.  SIAFI coverage and approval of normative framework
2.  Development of standards and procedures for new types of audits under implementation and qualified
    staff in the TSC
3.  Approval of legal framework for public employment and compensation and coverage of the Human
    Resource management information system
4.  PRS Progress Reports and monitoring activities conducted by the UNAT
5.  Reengineering and simplification of administrative procedures in five Central Government Secretariats
6.  Preparation of the necessary studies and strategies to restructure the Telecommunications, Ports,
    Petroleum and Postal Sector, and strengthening of the regulatory capacity of the corresponding
    regulatory entities and the Government's capacity to promote private sector participation in public
    services

The indicators selected above were found as most appropriate to monitor and measure
results and the achievement of Development Objectives. The implementation of SIAFI
throughout the central government and decentralized institutions allows for improved
transparency in recording and reporting of the Government's economic activities and
establishes a framework to ensure an accountability regime, while strengthening the
external control system.

The inefficiencies that arise from weak structures in the audit institution are reduced as a
result of technical and managerial capacity within SEFIN and restructuring of CGR/TSC.
Improved audit standards and the overall institutionalization of internal controls within
the Executive ensure a more rigorous management of fiscal resources.

The development of performance evaluation capacity should lead to improved budget
analytical techniques and use of evaluation findings, all linked to the PRS
implementation. The expected result would be better sector programming and priority-
setting in public expenditures. Better distribution of scarce public funds would minimize



                                                      9

inefficiently allocated resources and increase accountability of actual expenditures, thus
allowing the Treasury to attain more efficient cash flow management.

Another important element is the verification of the implementation of centralized norms
and decentralized operations, and the consolidation of the ongoing Human Resources
Information System. By having a complete and accurate registry of public employees, the
project helps rationalize human resources needs and deployment.

The new component introduced as a result of the amendment of the program was the
Reengineering of public entities aimed at improving efficiency and effectiveness of the
public sector and the reduction of bureaucratic processes and operational costs. With the
redefinition of administrative processes subject to automation, with the application of
information technology systems. The reengineering of public entities is geared toward
modernizing and strengthening the capacity of the State to better serve its citizens and to
obtain fiscal gains.

Strengthening regulatory authorities to oversee private sector participation in the
provision of public services will consolidate effective implementation of regulatory
reform and adequate control of activities and provision of public services to be delegated
to private operators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance. No adverse environmental impact was anticipated as a result of
project activities including those related to the restructuring of the telecom and ports
sectors, and therefore the project was rated "C".         However the safeguard team
recommended that environmental assessments be prepared in relation to the restructuring
of these two sectors. In the case of the ports sector, the assessments were prepared but
because the reform in this sector did not take place, there was no need to monitor
safeguards compliance. In the case of the telecom sector, activities were restricted to
technical assistance and institutional restructuring and therefore environmental
assessments were no longer needed.

Procurement Compliance (Satisfactory). During project implementation, the PCU in
CPME was entrusted with the principal coordination and planning role of procurement
activities carried out in the components by SEFIN, UNAT and TSC, in addition to those
of direct responsibility of CPME's component. Outcomes in the Procurement Plan (PAC)
indicate that, in general terms, implementation was satisfactory, though with some
limitations and delays due to the complexity of diverse contracting activities in its
pipeline. The PAC implementation was, therefore, a real challenge to the core staff of
CPME, and of other executing agencies. Lessons learned, after a final assessment of
procurement outcomes, focused on the need to move towards increasing the institutional
capacity of the CPME and other project executing agencies in managing the diverse
issues that impacted the PAC of this project such as: the use of standard and model
bidding documentation, establishment of streamlined flows of actions, contracting of
individual consultants and training of core staff.



                                            10

Auditing, Financial Management and Reporting Compliance (Satisfactory). The project
maintained proper internal controls (including segregation of fiduciary responsibilities)
and oversight throughout implementation, and management of project funds (including
management of the special account and secondary accounts for the three implementing
units, maintenance of supporting documentation for project expenditures, and production
interim financial reports) was good. However, the project encountered problems with its
information system which had not been successfully implemented within six months of
effectiveness.    While the project had decided to implement a new management
information system, that implementation was also delayed by more than one year.
Additionally, the project had persistent problems with the information it provided in
Statements of Expenditure and disbursement requests (e.g., contracts that are signed by
the project and submitted to the Bank as required were not timely entered to the Client
connection, thus delaying the processing of disbursement requests), which resulted in a
qualification of the audit opinion in 2004 and 2005.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Project implementation was completed in September 2006 after three Closing Date
extensions covering an additional 25 month implementation period.

Since most project components required more time than originally anticipated to show
results, transition arrangements were necessary so as not to disrupt completion of critical
activities and overall achievement of expected outcomes. To this end, early in the process,
the Government and the Bank agreed on the preparation of a parallel/follow-on project
that would support follow up processes in most of the EFMTAC's components. This new
operation, the PRSTAC, was also geared to support implementation of the PRS and
completion of policy actions under the PRSC series. As regards the completion,
consolidation, expansion, and follow up of EFMTAC activities, the PRSTAC was
designed to support: (i) Further implementation, expansion and consolidation of the
financial management reform by further consolidating SIAFI institutionalization and
providing support to complete implementation of the new budget and financial
management framework established in the by the Financial Management law; (ii)
continued institutional strengthening of the TSC to enhance its control capacities and to
expand control abilities to internal control units; (iii) the design and implementation of a
new results-based monitoring and evaluation system linked to the PRS; (iv) explore and
support the implementation of pilot interventions geared to the professionalization of the
civil service; and (vi) the provision of targeted support to sector interventions included in
the PRSC policy matrix.

The PRSTAC was already prepared and approved before EFMTAC closing and began
implementation in 2006, facilitating both the seamless completion of EFMTAC activities
while following up on those areas were additional support was necessary to ensure the
achievement of the country's governance and institutional development objectives.

The completion and sustainability of all activities supported by the series of projects
sponsored by Bank in the areas of institutional and governance reforms remain to be
achieved and risks remain as identified in the design of all operations. Nevertheless,


                                             11

passage of legal frameworks in many areas as well as ongoing operation of management
systems developed within the context these projects, constitute the foundation to
consolidate and achieve sustained results.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The EFMTAC's objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
approved in December 1999. The CAS was geared to support public sector
modernization, improved governance and stronger environmental management and
disaster preparedness. The project primarily supported the goals of public sector
modernization and improved governance. It was expected that this new operation would
complete the administrative reform component of the Governments PSMP, strengthen
economic and financial management capabilities in SEFIN and key line secretariats,
integrate human resource policies and systems, develop planning, monitoring and
evaluation capacity; develop a national standardized procurement system; strengthen the
capacity of the CGR; and provide a modern regulatory framework for the provision of
public services. The project was also geared to contribute to private sector development
by strengthening regulatory entities with adequate legal frameworks that would increase
private sector confidence to participate in the delivery of public services.

The EFMTAC was also designed to support the Government's capacity to improve and
monitor PRS implementation by improving the Government capacity to track and
monitor poverty related expenditures and the timely and adequate completion of policies,
projects and other actions related to poverty reduction programs. The strengthening of the
UNAT in the Presidency Office was especially relevant to fulfill such objective. Also,
connected to the support provided for the implementation and monitoring of the PRS, the
project would support the timely implementation of policy actions agreed with the
government under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Upgraded financial management information system has been developed and
implemented in the Central Administration (Rating: Satisfactory)

The design of a legal framework and the approval by Congress of the corresponding new
Financial Administration Law (Ley de Administracion Financiera) in 2004 supported
consolidation of the financial management reform and the implementation of a
comprehensive restructuring program for the SEFIN. The associated regulations were
also issued. The implementation of the integrated financial management system SIAFI
was completed in all Secretariats, and in semi autonomous and autonomous institutions.
A Technical Unit was created to provide the necessary support for the SIAFI
management. A training program was designed and a training program for the technical
staff and professionals for the installation of the system and its use was carried out. SIAFI
has improved the Governments ability to control and manage all public expenditures.



                                              12

Nevertheless, still prevailing institutional weaknesses exist in the area of financial
management with a number of systemic deficiencies including:(i) the omission of
significant amounts of donor assistance from the budget; (ii) the determination of budget
allocations on the basis of incremental allocations; (iii) weak planning capacity at the
sector level, which contributes to the need for repeated budget amendments; and ( iv)
inappropriate budget formats presented on the basis of expenditure objects rather than
programmatic classification. While implementation of the integrated financial
management system (SIAFI) has improved, the Government's ability to control and
manage expenditures, the system is limited by: (i) rigidities in its formats; (ii) a lack of
comprehensive access to the system by all sectors resulting in delays in recording
transactions; (iii) problems with the accounting module, which is still not yet fully
operative; (iv) the lack of an interface with the procurement systems that allows many
payments to bypass the system; and (v) the need for a comprehensive strategy to ensure
the system sustainability. As usually occurs with changes of this magnitude, resistances
within the SEFIN still poses a challenge in the completion of this critical reform.

External Control system restructured and strengthened (Rating: Satisfactory)

This component provided technical support for the reorganization of the CGR, which was
later transformed into the new Tribunal Superior de Cuentas (TSC), created as a result of
the reform process. Achievements in this component refer to the formulation of the TSC
Strategy Plan 2004-2009, and the completion of the first phase of a training program. The
TSC human resources strategy resulted in: (i) the restructuring of the institution; (ii) a
reduction in personnel; (iii) a staffing plan; as well as (iv) the preparation of a
management audit manual and the simplification and reengineering of internal processes,
review of manuals and operational procedures. The TSC has also prepared and formally
approved a new set of regulations to govern its operations and is completing overdue
annual reports backlogged since fiscal year 2001.

This component also facilitated the design and implementation of a social audit
mechanism to facilitate work at the local level. Manuals directed to civil society
governing corruption reporting mechanisms and the respective training with the
participation of 3500 citizens and 78 municipalities. A WEB page was developed. As a
result of these efforts the number of corruption claims passed from practically zero in
2003 to 106 in 2004 and 130 in 2005.

Further actions still to be completed in the reform program include: (i) the
implementation of regulations under the TSC law; (ii) the approval of a new financial
audit manual and associated regulations; (iii) carrying out annual ex-post audits of
government procurement processes and contracts; and (iv) training of personnel of
internal control units from all public sector entities in various skills related to new
regulations and control abilities.

Despite progress achieved in the creation of a new Supreme Audit Institution that is in
the process of being strengthened, it is worth to mention that the existing legal framework
and governance structure for the new TSC, still provides room for the institution to be



                                             13

captured by the two major political parties, which has impacted on the credibility of the
TSC as an effective oversight institution.

Partial normative framework for public employment has been established (Rating:
Unsatisfactory)

The project supported the preparation of a new Civil Service legal framework (Ley del
Regimen del Servidor Publico), which was consulted among key stakeholders and civil
society. The bill of law was presented to Congress but was rejected as it is touching on
one of the most sensitivity issues affecting the use of discretionary practices in the
management of public employment as well as it touches on compensations aspects
affecting public servants unions.

Comprehensive studies of the public sector organizational macro structure were
conducted for: the evaluation of civil service wages, human resources, staff audits, roles
and functions of all Secretariats, autonomous entities and public enterprises. In addition,
an important outcome was the approval of the Public Sector Salary and Compensation
Law (Ley de Ordenamiento Retributivo del Sector Publico), which allows the
Government to control the fiscal impacts of the wage bill. This pieces of legislation was
effectively implemented at he beginning but was recently discontinued as a result of
Union's pressures.

The Integrated Management System for the Administration of Human Resources -
SIARH was also developed and is currently under implementation.

Despite significant progress at the technical level, the outcome fell short of expectations
due to a lack of political commitment from Government to go forward with the next stage
which constituted full implementation of the reform, a situation exacerbated by two
changes of administrations. Effective public sector management in Honduras still
requires: (i) the restoration of a sustainable fiscal situation and a more equitable
distribution of benefits via the implementation of the new salary regulations; (ii) the
establishment of new normative and institutional frameworks governing public
employment that would effectively limit the politicization of HR staffing procedures; and
(iii) the implementation of the new civil service framework, upon its approval.

Development of Performance Evaluation Capacity (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

The project strengthened the technical capacity of the Unidad de Apoyo Tecnico (UNAT)
at the office of the Presidency and enabled said unit to improve the planning, monitoring
and evaluation capacity to monitor and permanently enhance the PRS framework. Timely
progress reports and PRS related analytical work was conducted by the UNAT with the
support of this project.

The project also supported participatory and open consultations with civil society
organizations according to core principles of PRS processes. The UNAT also provided
support to five participating Secretariats ­Agriculture, Public Works, Transportation and



                                             14

Housing, Natural Resources and Environment- and strengthened their corresponding
planning and evaluation units UPEGs. However, it is fair to say that the culture of
planning and performance evaluation in the country has not yet permeated through out
the public sector and UPEGs are relegated and often used for other purposes. The output
indicators for this component were only partially fulfilled with no evidence of
sustainability of UPEGs work.

Administrative Reform and Public Sector Reengineering (Rating: Moderately
Unsatisfactory)

As indicated before, this component was introduced during the project restructuring
process in order to incorporate new activities suggested and prioritized by the
Government to address public sector administration geared to streamlining processes and
the operation of key sector ministries.

Reengineering of public entities with information technology systems to improve
efficiency and effectiveness was promoted. An evaluation of the current status of the
application of information systems and technology in the public sector was completed.
Also the processes subject to automation were identified. Institutional Reform
Agreements were subscribed with five participating ministries: Agriculture, Health,
Industry and Commerce, Foreign Affairs and the Children and Family Institute. The
redefinition of administrative processes took place and the financial administration
reviewed in order to establish the budgetary planning and financing of these entities; and
adjust them in accordance with their strategic vision during the restructuring and
modernization processes. The reengineering was partially implemented in three ministries
and in two was not started. The Government needs to go forward with the redefinition
and restructuring of public agencies according to revised roles and functions.

Private participation in key public services has been promoted (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)

The project pursued the reform of three sectors and consolidation of the regulatory
entities of other three. A couple of sectors were introduced: water and sanitation and
petroleum. The aviation sector was eliminated. In general, rich analytical and preparatory
work was supported to foster reform in all these sectors. Achievements were modes,
however, due the interference of vested interests that prevented actual implementation of
such reforms. Most remarkable results achieved are described below.

Telecommunications sector. Studies to support the institutional restructuring of the sector
were financed by the project. Progress in private participation has been modest, however
the Government recently opened the market for fixed line local and national telephone
services, and implemented its program "Telefonia para Todos/Modernidad para
Honduras", bringing competition into mobile telephone services. As a result of the
competition in the mobile industry, the number of users increased from 250,000 to
700,000. Providers offered better service plans and tariffs. A Telecomm Policy Cabinet
was created in 2004. HONDUTEL, the national telephone company, has subscribed



                                           15

model contracts with sub operators. A market study of international operators interested
in making investments in Honduras was carried-out. The normative framework was
designed and a bill of law "Ley Marco de Telecomunicaciones" was submitted to
Congress in 2004 and but is still pending.

Key steps that remain to be taken include: (i) the implementation of a universal access
policy that would significantly increase service coverage (especially in rural areas);(ii)
the strengthening of the telecom regulatory agency; and (iii) the repositioning of the state
telecom company (HONDUTEL) to enhance its competitiveness vis-à-vis private
national and international telecom operators.

Water Sector and Sanitation. The project provided technical support for the strengthening
of the regulatory agency CONASA, the re engineering of the state owned company
SAANA, and the preparation of the National Water and Sanitation Plan. After the
approval by Congress of the Water and Sanitation Law in 2003 the project supported the
socialization and its dissemination with civil society and municipalities. Significant
progress was achieved in the implementation of this sector reform, as many
municipalities have already take over management of water and sanitation services and
more effective operators are expected to provide services in the big cities. The regulatory
entity has also been strengthened.

Remaining activities in this sector include additional support to CONASA as well as
strengthening the Sector Regulator for Water and Sanitation (ERSAPS). Further work is
needed to consolidate the sector reform by enhancing technical assistance activities with
all involved operators and by expanding dissemination activities with all stakeholders.

Ports Sector. A Ports Law (Ley General de Puertos) was presented to Congress in 2004
and approval is still pending. This is a key element for the sector reform and for the
regulatory function. The project provided technical assistance for a legal and patrimonial
audit, the security evaluation for the safety of ports and the corresponding preparation of
protection plans. The studies for the concession of Puerto Cortes were advanced but at
the closing of the program still the environmental and cadastre studies were pending.

The Government needs to proceed with the restructuring of the National Ports Company
and to strengthen the organizational capacity of the regulatory entity in line with the new
legal framework once approved, and supporting efforts of attracting private investment
for other ports.

Postal sector. An institutional evaluation of HONDUCOR, the postal service agency, was
completed and a strategic reorientation of the postal administration was proposed. A
postal market study was carried out and a Law proposal for the sector prepared. Despite
the conclusions of the studies and the progress achieved to prepare the reform of the
sector, the government estimated that the reform was not politically viable and decided to
suspend the process. A new effort by the Government should be made taking advantage
of all the information and studies prepared. Various different approaches to a more
efficient management of the Postal Service should be considered.



                                             16

Electricity Sector. Due to the political sensitivity of this reform only preparatory work
was advanced for the restructuring of the national electricity company ENEE, in order to
support alternative options to bring private sector participation into the sector. To
improve the sector efficiency it is vital to go forward with the restructuring of ENEE and
the review of the sector legislation.

Given the limited progress in this area, there was an agreement to continue working in the
restructuring of this sector under the follow-up operation. No further impact was
achieved in the sector and the prospects are still uncertain.

Petroleum. A study for a new model of commercialization of hydrocarbons derivatives
was completed, in order to obtain competitive prices. The preparation of a new Law for
Commercialization and a proposal for the institutional structure of the sector was
prepared. The implementation phase was not started at the closing of the project. It is
important the Government proceeds with the reform of the sector starting with the
approval of the normative and regulatory framework.

3.3 Efficiency

EFMTAC's economic and financial evaluation was of a qualitative nature in view of the
fact that the project focused on capacity building activities and preparation of studies and
the development of activities for the implementation of reforms. Nevertheless, since
positive impacts were expected from institutional changes, project implementation is
projected to generate fiscal, economic and socials gains. The most noteworthy nature of
expected benefits to be generated by this project is summarized in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (Moderately Satisfactory)

In view of the overall balance of project achievements as well as actual contribution to
the PDO, the project outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. In summary, the
project was successful in developing financial management capacities in the country and
in implementing the basis for a new institutional framework for external controls. It also
succeeded in supporting institutional transformations in two key services sectors --
telecom and water and sanitation, which will bring additional investment to these sectors
and improve quality and coverage in both services. Results were more modest vis-à-vis
developing monitoring and evaluation capacities in the government as well as regards
promoting further administrative simplification and institutional transformation of key
government agencies. It was also modest and uncertain in actually promoting
restructuring of other key public services like energy, ports, postal and hydrocarbon
sectors. Finally, the project failed in initiating an actual and effective reform of the civil
service, which has remained as a key pending issue in the governance agenda for the
country.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                               17

The project supported initiatives to monitor and enrich the PRS (Poverty Reduction
Strategy) by supporting studies on impacts and determinants of poverty as well as by
supporting consultation processes and social participation mechanisms with civil society
groups. It also supported the coordination of mesas sectoriales and harmonization
initiatives with the government, donors and civil society.

The primary beneficiaries of the EFMTAC were government agencies, local governments
and citizens in general. The project has contributed to building transparency and to
strengthening social confidence in government institutions. Support to decentralization
efforts contributed to a more democratic government closer to its citizens. These
improvements would benefit the general population.

The reform of public services aimed at improving the country competitiveness, reduce
poverty and provide services of quality and reasonable cost. Even though the reform
towards privatization was limited and partially implemented in the telecommunications
sector, the changes attained gave greater and better access to a larger number of users.
Support to the Water and Sanitation sector helped decreasing the incidence of water-
borne illnesses affecting infant mortality and morbidity. Resolving these problems and
strengthening water and sanitation services is critical to achieving both the Government's
PRS targets and the Millennium Development Goals for which the country is still off-
track. The approval of a new sector framework law constitutes an important first step
toward rectifying prevailing deficiencies and improving service delivery.

Finally, under the TSC component, citizen participation was also promoted. In 2003, the
TSC implemented the citizens articulated audits ­auditoria articulada- aimed at
combating corruption and promoting conscientiousness among civil society to the
importance of transparency and accountability in the management and control of public
resources.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Although less than expected, the project has provided relevant support and impacted in
key areas of the country's institutional development. Progress achieved on the financial
management reform, the establishment of a new institutional framework for the external
control function, and further consolidation of regulatory entities, constitute significant
advances in the modernization of Honduras' public sector. Yet, slow and insignificant
progress in the implementation of the civil service reform might also constitute a major
constraint for continuous progress affecting most areas of government progress.

The implementation of the SIAFI under the existing Financial Management Law
provided the optimal framework for decentralizing public expenditure management to
line secretariats. The restructuring of SEFIN, as well as related capacity-building and
extensive training of personnel stimulated significant institutional strengthening. Also
institutional benefits have resulted from the modernization of human resource
management systems, which are intended to further facilitate professionalize the public
sector. To ensure the adequate performance of SIAFI a medium term plan for capacity


                                            18

building and institutional strengthening requires the inclusion of monitoring and
evaluation capacity within the ministerial units and the permanent training of personnel.
Sustainability is a key issue since government needs to ensure the necessary investments
for the maintenance of the SIAFI and its operation.

The transformation of the CGR and the corresponding institutional restructuring and
creation of the TSC, are key elements of institutional reform. The TSC has now the basis
for further implementing effective control systems and to further professionalize its
personnel.

On the Civil Service Reform, the government has to proceed with determination and
promptitude, in order to benefit from the substantial information and studies generated by
the project, since their usefulness can be lost with the pass of time (i.e. the evaluation of
civil service wages, human resources staff audit of roles, and others).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The CPME supported studies for the development and implementation of decentralization
policies and strategies. Also institutions building TA was provided to municipalities
contributing to the preparation of 296 strategic plans with large community participation
(3,256 commissions integrated by 16,280 citizens). Furthermore, 1,180 technicians were
trained in 58 mancomunidades. This work was conducted as a complement to what has
been done under a parallel Bank project supporting the Social Investment Fund (FHIS).

The CPME also provided assistance to the Supreme Court Justice via support to the
professionalization of the Judicial System. The evaluation of approximately 1,823
judicial functionaries was conducted and reviews of performance, background and
psychological tests were conducted. Dissemination activities with stakeholders in order to
encourage personnel and promote a change of management culture were also conducted.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There was no final survey carried out with beneficiaries nor was a stakeholder's
workshop undertaken, since stakeholders' views and recommendations were duly taken
into consideration in the design and preparation of the PRSTAC, the latter constituted a
follow up operation building on the gains and progress attained under the EFMTAC.
However, in order to get a better sense of achievements and recommendations emerging
from the implementation of the EFMTAC, an independent evaluation was commended to
an external consultant. The report is part of the documentation used in the preparation of
this ICR and is summarized in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Rating: Substantial)

Although some significant results were achieved in several project components,
continuity and sustainability of such achievements remain uncertain. The new
Government has expressed its commitment to maintaining support to the governance and



                                            19

institutional agenda and has incorporated new priorities to the same, i.e. a renewed
support to the development of monitoring and evaluation systems.

Nevertheless, structural problems affecting implementation of institutional changes
remain valid. Some key elements which continue to jeopardize progress in this area
include: (i) strong influence of political transition that gives a very short window of time
for governments to implement reform programs; (ii) continuous tensions between the
executive and Congress which obstructs passage of normative reforms; (iii) limited
progress in reforming the civil service which affects the overall stability of civil servants
thereby weakening the institutional capacities of government agencies; and (iv) strong
resistance from vested interest groups to be affected by the proposed reforms.

In view of the above, the overall risk to development outcome is considered substantial.
Nevertheless, both the Government and the Bank agree on the need to keep pushing this
agenda forward and have prepared and begun implementation of the follow-on operation
to continue working in addressing such issues.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

Project designing followed regular internal review procedures before submission to
Board approval in September, 2000. A QAG review was not carried out for this project.
Project design was found moderately satisfactory in view of aspects assessed as part of
the current ICR and considering justifications discussed below.

The project design was clear and appropriate in identifying key elements in the country
context as well as in aligning its objectives to the CAS priorities approved in December
1999. The primary goal of supporting public sector modernization and improved
governance was certainly adequate to provide the basis for faster growth as an essential
complement to poverty reduction. Focus on infrastructure sectors as well as on
developing core management systems was part of a comprehensive approach to public
sector modernization and institutional reform.

Based on existing analytical work conducted at that time, the project design also
succeeded in identifying critical areas affecting overall governance and public sector
effectiveness. The need to overcome critical deficiencies in basic management functions
i.e., the financial systems, human resources and public procurement, were well identified
and described in the project background. It also identified the need to strengthen control
and audit functions and to initiate the development of monitoring and evaluation
capacities. Furthermore, the development of a strong regulatory framework to promote
private participation and competition in key infrastructure and public services sectors also
formed part of the development agenda the country was facing at the time the project was
prepared.



                                              20

Nevertheless, the project design failed to exercise the necessary caution in assessing risks
attributable to very weak implementation capacity combined with the complex political
environment marked by the upcoming elections and the transition to a new administration
in 2002. Political cycles and election periods in Honduras are known for being longer
than usual and for impacting normal government work.

In addition, project design included a very long list of activities covering the entire
institutional development agenda which resulting in a very complex and ambitious scope.
The proposed scope merged into a single project, all public sector management
development activities along with those related to the regulatory reform and private
sector development, which posed an unnecessary burden on the implementing agency and
forced it to define priorities during the implementation process.

(b) Quality of Supervision (Rating: Satisfactory)

Project supervision was conducted with special attention and with the participation of a
multidisciplinary team covering all necessary areas. The team was led by PREM
specialists, and was furthermore comprised of FPSI experts in sector areas were the
project was supporting regulatory reforms and other private sector related activities. The
TTL changed twice during a five year implementation period. Nonetheless, these changes
did not affect the overall quality of supervision activities nor relationships with
government authorities and counterparts.

During the implementation period and as part of priorities agreed between the Bank
management and government authorities, additional analytical work relevant to the
project was developed. CFAA and CPAR studies were completed in 2003 and have
provided valuable information and policy recommendations to further strengthen the
public sector modernization agenda. As a result, project priorities were also revised and
reflected in the project's restructuring.

Flexibility in the supervision work was reflected in all adaptations made to meet new
government priorities, recommendations from Bank's analytical work, and assessment of
actual capabilities to deliver results. Active supervision activity also led to a more
proactive coordination with donor community and to complement efforts in work
developed in related areas. As a result, a strong partnership was developed with the IDB
to jointly support the financial management reform in the Ministry of Finance, and to
closely coordinate the procurement reform that was dropped from the EFMTAC scope.

Moreover, in working with bilateral agencies, close coordination also resulted in the
design of a co-financing scheme for the follow up operation that is currently administered
by the Bank.

On the fiduciary side, the Bank also conducted regular supervision activities in both
financial management and procurement aspects. Particular attention was given to this and
other projects in the country in view of fiduciary risks affecting Bank operations in
Honduras.



                                              21

The existence of one central PIU and three executing units added complexity to project
implementation and also implied additional efforts for the Bank to carry out supervision
on fiduciary matters.

In addition to regular procurement supervision activities that included annual post-
reviews for all projects, an Independent Procurement Review (IPR) was commended for
this operation. As a result, practical recommendations as well as issues to be addressed
were identified and discussed with government authorities to ensure proper
administration of this credit. At the Bank's request, the Borrower has provided the
information on a number of processes, which are under Bank's review.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

Given the Bank's ability to interpret and adjust project interventions according to project
implementation needs, as well as a continuous focus on achieving project objectives and
results rather than focusing only on the implementation of pre-designed activities, the
Bank team was able to manage a complex project in a complex environment.

Although results achieved are not fully satisfactory, Bank performance was effective
enough to assess risks, limit expectations, and focus on areas were results were more
likely to be achieved. The ability to coordinate with other donors, work with committed
authorities and come up with a follow up operation in a timely manner are also aspects to
be considered when rating the Bank performance in managing this project.

Finally, there is also the recognition in the borrower's evaluation on the effective work
deployed by the Bank both from the country office and headquarters. Again, flexibility to
adjust a well as immediate response with the follow up operation are noted as relevant
aspects to be highlighted fro the Bank's work.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance (Rating: Moderately satisfactory)

Project implementation was affected by constant changes in government counterparts
during political transitions and changes of administration. Two changes of administration
occurred during project implementation (2002 and 2006) and changes of most of project
counterparts. As one could see from the disbursement summary, project implementation
considerably slowed down during transition periods therefore delaying completion of
project activities and results. Delays in implementation also resulted in three extensions
of the project closing date and a cumulative extension of 25 months from the original
implementation period.

Nevertheless, most of the key government counterparts proved to be well qualified and
committed to project objectives. Although dispersion and weak coordination was
observed among implementing and beneficiary agencies, authorities in the Office of the
Presidency, the Ministry of Finance and the TSC, also demonstrated the ability and


                                             22

pragmatism necessary to prioritize areas were the project was most likely to achieve
results.

Following the changes carried out in the TSC, and once the technical team was
established in the Ministry of Finance, personnel turnover was significantly reduced and
continuity in the implementation of project activities was observed in these two agencies.
The same did not hold true in the case of the remaining project components. Moreover,
both leadership and technical teams were constantly changing in the Civil Service Office
as well as in decentralized agencies in the ENEE, HONDUTEL, the Ports Administration
and other agencies in charge of several project components.

Another problem affecting the Borrower's performance was related to the tense
relationship between the Executive and Congress. Since many project components
required legal reforms to fully achieve their objectives and complete institutional
transformations in many sectors, the inability to pass such legal reforms constituted one
of the major constraints for the project to deliver expected results. This holds true for the
human resource management component, as well as for sector reforms in the areas of
telecom, ports, postal, and energy. Nonetheless, the Government managed to deliver
passage of four key pieces of legislation to facilitate project completion in the areas of
public financial management the new law - Financial Administration Law (Ley de
Administracion Financiera), the Law for the creation of the TSC, the Public Sector
Salary and Compensation Law (Ley de Ordenamiento Retributivo del Sector Publico) and
the Water and Sanitation Law that reforms the water and sanitation sector.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

The CPME in the Office of the Presidency proved to be an effective and capable agency
to carry out project coordination and implementation. Aside from usual problems
affecting project administration and internal controls to be improved, audits carried out
annually did not detect any major issue related to project management and to the correct
use of credit proceeds. Submission of reports and monitoring information was timely and
according to required standards.

Coordination problems arose, however, as a result of the participation of many executing
and beneficiary agencies. The CPME' centralized the administration of project funds and
therefore was responsible for internally allocating funds among other executing agencies,
particularly the SEFIN and the TSC.           Overall project complexity coupled with
overwhelming demands for payments and other services to be provided by the CPME
frequently created "bottle-necks" that constrained regular project implementation.

At the agency level, both the SEFIN and the TSC executing units also established well
staffed executing units to carry out procurement and part of financial management
responsibilities. Both units were effective as to carry out each component's activities, but
failed also to effectively coordinate among them and with the CPME. This issue,
although addressed occasionally at the technical level, persisted along most of the
implementation period.



                                             23

On the fiduciary side, the most important issue to be highlighted resulted from the IPR
conducted on the three executing agencies. The review found issues to be resolved with
the three units and recommended corrective actions to be implemented. Most of those
recommendations were implemented by the units although some of the issues raised still
need to be justified and corrected.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (Rating: Moderately
satisfactory)

Overall, considering complexities of the project to be implemented, complexities of the
political and institutional environment in the country, and existing weaknesses in most
involved institutions, Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

As explained in preceding sections, many of expected results could not have been
delivered according to plans, and the implementation of most activities was delayed for a
variety reasons. Nevertheless, the country advanced in some critical areas and is still in
the process continuing the implementation of key elements of the reform process.
Government authorities must face the cost of transition processes and the lack of
established procedures to guarantee the continuity of their programs. Within this context,
progress was achieved in many areas and different administrations managed to
implement the project and deliver part of the results. Continuation of such efforts is
expected under the follow-on PRSC TAC which is already under implementation and
making use of the same institutional arrangement that proved to be the most adequate in
spite of some of the shortcomings.

6. Lessons Learned

Improvements toward greater transparency, efficiency and modernization of the public
sector are gradual processes that require important preparatory investments and long-term
implementation periods, in order to achieve significant changes within the context of
such an ambitious program. The implementation period originally assigned to this
operation proved unrealistic. Nevertheless the preparation and approval of a new
operation, PRSTAC, which builds up on the progress made in all the relevant
components of the EFMTAC, is a key element for the consolidation of current gains and
success of reforms that are not yet completed. An assessment of the project's
achievements can only be determined once the PRSTAC has been completed, since
implementation of most of the reforms are expected to take place under the new operation.
Otherwise the EFMTAC will yield modest and incomplete results.

In the design of future operations it is recommended to separate initiatives regarding
public sector management and civil service reform from those directed at the reform of
public services and private sector participation processes. The combination of both add in
complexity due to the sensitivity of the issues, and might hamper progress with multiple
executing agencies and difficult policy decision-making, all in one package. The
coordination and harmonization of strategies with other donors proves to be a useful and



                                             24

mandatory initiative, in order to obtain leverage with government politicians who resist
change. Considering this lesson, new interventions planned by the Bank in these areas,
contemplate not only the already mentioned follow up operation PRSTAC, but also a
Utility Restructuring Project to deal with the continuation and implementation of
infrastructure and other public services reforms.

An important factor to be considered in operations such as the EFMTAC, that not only
contemplate the strengthening of key government institutions, but also include approval
and implementation of reforms, is to take into account the political calendar cycles. One
measure to mitigate risks is the establishment of benchmark linkages to other donor
programs, budget support operations, IMF benchmarks, in order to obtain the necessary
leverage to induce change. The new operation prepared after EFMTAC already takes
these lessons into account.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower, through the implementing agency CPE, prepared their own evaluation of
project implementation and results. They also included references to their own
performance and Bank's performance during project implementation. A complete
translation of the document prepared by the borrower is included in Annex 7.

Overall, borrower's perception of project's results is notably more optimistic as the
evaluation prepared the Bank's team. Nevertheless, achievements described by the
borrower are listed only for three of project components: a) public financial management;
b) strengthening of the TSC; and c) consolidation of regulatory reforms. Despite some
different valuation on the final outcome of these three components, there is a coincidence
in the perception between the Bank and the borrower that there was under these three
areas where most remarkable achievements were met by this project.

Also, regarding borrower and Bank's performance, the borrower presents a very positive
evaluation of both. The evaluation recognizes that the Bank provided adequate support
and close supervision to project implementation and they found all three implementing
agencies' performance as satisfactory. Discrepancies on this evaluation were
communicated to the borrower as part of the ICR revision.

Further comments were also provided by the Borrower after the revision of a draft
version of this ICR (this communication is also included in Annex 7. As a reaction to the
proposed evaluation, the Borrower claims the revision and upgrading of some of the
proposed rating: (i) on the public sector reengineering component they find results as
satisfactory given progress achieved in preparatory activities that would be followed up
and implemented by the current administration; (ii) on the consolidation of regulatory
reform component they also propose upgrading rating to satisfactory, in view of
achievements already described in this ICR and preparatory work in other sectors that
still is possible to be implemented; and (iii) on the human resource management
component, they find results as moderately satisfactory as some progress was achieved in


                                             25

terms of training of personnel and carrying out of auditing activities for public sector
employees.

(b) Co-financiers

Comments from the IDB, as a co-financier agency to this project were provided. A
complete transcription of IDB comments is included in Annex 8. Most remarkable
messages out of these comments have to do with the acknowledgment of the coordination
effort deployed between the two Banks in support of the financial management
component of the EFMTAC project.

As explained in more detail in the annex, the IDB colleagues believe that the close
collaboration between the two Banks has helped Honduras make dramatic changes in
their public resource management. The fact that both Banks shared a diagnostic and had a
common approach to resolving deficiencies has led to more noticeable results.
Furthermore, the level of coordination assured that the remaining resources of loan 3414
were used, even before resources from 1546 were committed, as a way to ensure that the
country did not lose needed resources. This shows strong cooperation and the advantages
of having a joint program approach to an issue.




                                           26

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
           Components                                                        Percentage of
                                         (USD millions)        Estimate
                                                             (USD millions)   Appraisal

1. PUBLIC FINANCE
MANAGEMENT AND
INTERNAL CONTROL                                  7.32              7.66        105%


2. REORGANIZATION OF THE
COMPTROLLER GENERAL'S
OFFICE                                            2.55              2.64        104%


3. HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT                                        2.28              0.97         43%

4. DEVELOPING
PERFORMANCE
EVALUATION CAPACITY                               2.10              0.30         14%


5. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT                             1.43              0.00         0%

6. CONSOLIDATING
REGULATORY REFORMS                                4.74              4.95        104%

7. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             1.44              3.78        263%

8. ADM REFORM & PUBLIC
SECTOR REENGINEERING                              0                 2.05        205%

Total Baseline Cost                              21.86             22.35
Price Contingencies                               1.14

            **Total Project Costs                23.00             22.35         97%



(*) Actual values include ex-change rate gains from SDR to US$




                                                    27

(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds        Type of      Estimate    Estimate   Percentage of
                               Cofinancing     (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                              millions)   millions)
Borrower                       Counterpart           1.90        2.18       115%
International Development
Association (IDA)              External             19.00       20.16       106%

Total                                               20.90       22.35       107%



    Source of Funds       2001    2002 2003   2004      2005    2006    Total
Borrower                  0.54    0.25    0.32   0.50     0.29     0.29    2.18
International
Development Association   3.60    1.13    2.63   4.40     5.82     2.59   20.16
(IDA)
Total (US$ Million)       4.13    1.38    2.94   4.90     6.11     2.88   22.35




                                       28

 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                Outcome and output indicators and performance ratings
                                        by components
                      Project
   Components       Development      Outcome/Impact               Output             Performance

                     Objective           Indicators             Indicators               Rating


Public Finance   Improve           Operating SIAFI with 100% of central              Satisfactory
Management and   transparency and all core modules       administration and 70%
Internal Control accountability in under operation       of decentralized        Although further
                 the use and       (Budget, treasury and institutions operating  consolidation work is
                 allocation of     Accounting).          under SIAFI.            needed to ensure full
                 public resources                                                implementation of
                                   Increased             100% of information     new financial
                                   Transparency and      processed in SIAFI is   management system
                                   accountability in the accessible in real time and its sustainability,
                                   use and allocation of covering all financial  achievements in this
                                   100% of budgeted      management functions. field are remarkable
                                   public resources.                             as compared to other
                                                         Automation of treasury international
                                   SEFIN restructured    transactions reduced    practices. PDO was
                                   and capable to        emission of paper       fully fulfilled.
                                   perform its functions checks by 70% in 2006.
                                   according to the new
                                   legal framework.      Ley de Administracion
                                                         Financiera ­ approved
                                                         in 2004, helped
                                                         consolidation of the
                                                         system and the
                                                         restructuring of SEFIN.

                                                         80% of SEFIN
                                                         personnel is trained and
                                                         aligned to new
                                                         functions.




                                                29

                           Project
   Components           Development        Outcome/Impact                Output              Performance

                          Objective            Indicators              Indicators                Rating


Strengthening of the A functioning       A new supreme audit New audit procedures             Satisfactory
TSC and financial    strong, capable     institution (the TSC) established through
control systems      and a fully         established with a     special regulations      Creation of the new
                     independent         new legal framework issued by the TSC.          TSC and advances in
                     supreme audit       to regulate and                                 the institutional
                     institution, to     implement external     TSC strategic            strengthening process
                     monitor the         control functions.     development plan         has started to show
                    performance of the                          completed and under      results in control
                    public sector and TSC restructured and implementation.               performance.
                    other branches of with capable
                    government based personnel to perform As a result of the
                    on accountability, audit functions.         staffing plan the TSC
                    transparency, legal                         has reduced from 587 to
                    and ethical criteria.Standards and          485 employees and
                                         Procedures for new     increased from 26% to
                                         types of audits in the 60% the percentage of
                                         new TSC legislation professional staff.
                                         under implementation
                                                                The number of audit
                                         Social auditing        reports and notifications
                                         procedures created     has increased from 214
                                         and under              in 2003 to 642 in 2006.
                                         implementation.
                                                                Social audit mechanism
                                                                developed and already
                                                                applied in 78
                                                                municipalities.




                                                       30

                     Project
  Components     Development        Outcome/Impact               Output                Performance

                   Objective           Indicators              Indicators                 Rating


Human Resource Streamlining of    Passage and partial    The Integrated               Unsatisfactory
management     the public sector  implementation of the Management System
               workforce for      salary management      for HR Administration Although some
               greater efficiency law (Ley de            (Sistema Integrado paraprogress was
               and effectiveness Ordenamiento            la Administración de      achieved in
               achieved..         Retributivo del Sector Recursos Humanos)         improving knowledge
                                  Publico) helped to     Developed and under       and information
               Significant        temporarily control    implementation.           systems for HR
               reduction in       wage management.                                 management, the
               personnel turn-                           New law to regulate       major objective of
               over rates and de- Human Resource         public sector             professionalizing the
               politicization of  management             employment drafted andcivil service and
               public sector      information system     presented to Congress     limiting political
               employment.        developed and          but not approved.         influence was not
                                  integrated to SIAFI.                             accomplished.
               More effective                            Evaluation of civil
               control on wage                           service wages, audit of
               and compensation                          human resources staff,
               policies in the                           functions and
               public sector.                            organizational
                                                         structures for all Central
                                                         Government agencies
                                                         completed.

                                                         Study of administrative,
                                                         operational processes
                                                         and strengthening of the
                                                         Direccion General del
                                                         Servicio Civil (DGSC)
                                                         completed.




                                               31

                          Project
   Components           Development        Outcome/Impact              Output              Performance

                         Objective             Indicators             Indicators               Rating


Developing           Budget planning     The technical unit    3 Progress Reports and       Moderately
performance          and evaluation      UNAT in the           one document for             Satisfactory
evaluation capacity capacity in key      Presidency office has enriching the PRS have
                     government          been strengthened to been completed.          Although progress
                     agencies has been monitor                                         was observed in the
                     developed.          implementation of the UNAT has been           development of
                                         PRS.                  provided with senior    instruments and
                     Government                                professionals to        analytic work around
                     capacity to         A poverty related     enhance its capacity to implementation of the
                     monitor             monitoring and        monitor implementation PRS, institutional
                     implementation of evaluation system       of the PRS.             capacities are still to
                     the PRS is been     (SIERP) has been                              be consolidated and
                     strengthened.       developed and is      The indicators system   sustainability remains
                                         operating in UNAT. SIERP is updated and       uncertain.
                                                               publicly accessible and
                                                               recently linked to a
                                                               results-based
                                                               management system.

                                                               Planning and
                                                               monitoring capacities
                                                               were strengthened in
                                                               the UPEGs of 5
                                                               Secretaries.


Administrative       Greater efficiency Comprehensive study Public Administration           Moderately
reform and public    and effectiveness for the reengineering law prepared and             Unsatisfactory
sector reengineering of the public sectorof the public sector, presented to Congress.
                     through the         simplification of                             Only three out of five
                     streamlining of     administrative        Redefinition and        pilot restructuring
                    public services andprocedures and          restructuring of public processes were
                    the reengineering management, and          agencies according to   actually implemented.
                    of key public        modernization         revised roles and
                    sector agencies.     strategy with         functions designed for
                                         application of        five Secretaries and
                                         information           implement in three.
                                         technology tools.
                                                               28 managers trained in
                                                               Management
                                                               Information
                                                               Technology and
                                                               graduated from
                                                               Infotechnology training
                                                               program.




                                                      32

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


                        Cost Effectiveness of EFMTAC Interventions


   Components                 Possible                     Expected                        Expected
                           fiscal impact               economic gains                    social gains

Public finance       More efficient use and    Increased Transparency and         More effective and
management and       allocation of public      accountability in the allocation accurate monitoring of
internal control     resources and improved and use of public resources           sector and poverty
                     control of budgeting      increasing economic efficiency reduction programs.
                     system.                   and return of public sector
                                               expenditures.
Strengthening of the Fiscal savings through    Reduced public resource            Improved and more
TSC and financial    public audits and         leakages and control of            transparent management
control systems      accounting mechanisms financial flows.                       of public funds, ensuring
                     that monitor performance                                     adequate allocation and
                     of the public sector and                                     use of funds according
                     other branches of                                            with budgeting
                     government based on                                          processes.
                     accountability,
                     transparency, legal and                                      Social auditing
                     ethical criteria.                                            facilitating monitoring
                                                                                  the correct use of public
                                                                                  funds.
Human Resource       Fiscal sustainable        Rationalization of human           Improved performance
management           payment policies in the   resource needs and employment and delivery pf public
                     public sector through     and better services provided by and social services as a
                     proved human resource     public institutions as a result of result of more adequate
                     management and            more capable and motivated         incentives to civil
                     administration of the     personnel.                         servants.
                     public sector workforce
                     for greater efficiency and
                     effectiveness.



Developing           Improved social           Improved sector programming Participatory discussions
performance          understanding of fiscal   and priority setting of public     on Social policy to guide
evaluation capacity management, budgetary expenditures to maximize                government decision
                     restrictions and          impact of PRS expenditures.        making and
                     prioritization of public                                     implementation of the
                     sector investments.                                          PRS.

                     Better distribution of
                     scarce public funds
                     minimizes inefficiently
                     allocated resources and
                     increase accountability of
                     actual expenditures.




                                                   33

   Components                 Possible                      Expected                     Expected
                           fiscal impact                economic gains                 social gains

Consolidating        Fiscal savings though      Increased economic activity andImproved quality of
regulatory reforms improved allocation of       competitiveness as a result of   public services.
                     funds in the provision of greater efficiency in targeted
                    public services as a result service sectors to facilitate    Expanded coverage of
                    of increased efficiency in attraction of foreign capital and telecommunications and
                    targeted service sectors    to foster economic growth.       water and sanitation
                                                                                 services.

                                                                                 Improved quality of
                                                                                 pubic services as a result
                                                                                 of enhanced regulatory
                                                                                 capacity.
Administrative       Administrative and         Strategic vision during the      Enhanced capacity to
reform and public    operational costs reduced Restructuring and                 provide services in those
sector reengineering as a result of             modernization processes          restructured institutions
                     rationalization of         contributes to better            increases impact and
                     administrative processes performance and more efficient coverage of services
                     and operational            use of pubic resources.          delivered.
                     modernization with new
                     technology.




                                                    34

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


            (a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Ana Bellver Vazquez-DoderoPublic Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS Governance
Diomedes Berroa            Senior Operations Officer          LCSPT Procurement
Marc L. Heitner            Lead Financial Analyst            COCPO Hydrocarbons
Karla Soledad Lopez Flores Language Program Assistant         LCSPS Op. Assistance
Jesus Martinez             E T Consultant                     LCSPS Op Assistance
Silvio Solarte Leyton      Consultant                         LCSPS IT/FM
Javier Armando Soriano ArceConsultant                         LCSPS Civil Service
Maria Guadalupe Toscano
Nicolas                    E T Consultant                     LCSPS Op. Assistance

Josef S. Trommer           Operations Officer                 LCC2C Op. Assistance
Eloy Eduardo Vidal         Lead Telecommunications Engine     CITPO Telecom
Alberto Leyton             Task Team Leader                   LCSPS
Carmen Machicado           Operations Officer                 LCSPS ICR contributor
Graciela Cintora           Consultant                                 ICR author



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                   10.48
  FY00                                        19                         98.02
  FY01                                        10                         32.87
                          Total:              29                        141.37
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                        19                         71.65
  FY02                                        21                        122.28
  FY03                                        37                        153.94
  FY04                                        38                        148.96
  FY05                                        29                        121.58
  FY06                                        25                         90.99
  FY07                                         5                         23.10
                          Total:            174                         732.50




                                           35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                    36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was not conducted at the completion of this project as a follow
up operation was already initiated. Instead, an external evaluation was commended by the
Government to provide feedback and inputs as well as to evaluate lessons learned from
this operation. The full report of this evaluation is part of documents used to complete
this ICR. A transcription of the conclusions section of this document is presented below.

Conclusions1

Key execution indicators measuring progress towards the project objective have been the
executed follow-up procedures, in which: (i) transparency and responsibility in the use of
public resources have been developed; (ii) standards and procedures for the new audits to
be realized under the supervision of the Comptroller General Office, currently the Higher
Court of Auditors, have been established; (iii) public sector positions have been
rationalized; (iv) human resources controls have been improved and enlarged whilst
applying modern human resource management policies; (v) sector programming has been
deepened and public spending prioritized, and; (vi) efficiency and transparency, as well
as coverage and a client orientation approach in the provision of quality public services
have been broadened.

The development project result derives from a modernization process based on a State
whose characteristics are to be: (i) democratic and participative, where the preferences of
the majority prevail yet the minorities' rights are respected; (ii) normative, creator of laws
that are coherent with the market principles, competitiveness, judicial security and rule of
law; (iii) transparent, subject to the law and regulations, and accountability principles;
(iv) decentralized, integrating national, regional and municipal strategies aiming at
strengthening the local community by and large and its management and decision-taking
capacities; (v) solidarity, promoter of equality and equal access to opportunities, and; (vi)
efficient and effective, with limited powers, promoter of productive work and innovator
in the facilitation and use of new technologies.

Indeed, profound transformation processes take time and require broad consensus on
uniform and sustainable criteria, which are meant to be the product of extensive debates.

Transformation criteria and State modernization policies need to be compatible not only
with national demands but also with a highly competitive regional and international
environment, where economic blocs more than individual comparative advantages, and
this despite the State reorganization and modernization requirements, will weight more
heavily in attracting foreign capital and in promoting stronger viability and security in
investment, economic growth and sustainable development.




1From the document "Informe de Evaluación de Desempeño del Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a la
Gestión Económica y Financiera (EFMTAC), Crédito 3414-HO", January 2006, prepared by Sharon
Claesson (External consultant to the CPME).


                                               37

The modernization of the State in public policy making includes prioritizing the
mobilization of human, technical, financial and operative resources towards objectives
that are concrete, comprehensible and measurable over time.

Paradigms to establish competence criteria for acceding and remaining in a public servant
position demand significant cultural changes. It is thus essential to work in conjunction
with policy makers that are called to lead the change and to be able to count on the
motivation to deliver of those accountable for completing the task.




                                            38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This annex includes: a) the original self-evaluation report prepared by the borrower in
Spanish; b) an unofficial translation of the self-evaluation report commended by the Bank
team; and c) a communication received from the borrower with their comments on the
draft ICR shared for their revision.


       COMISIÓN PRESIDENCIAL DE MODERNIZACIÓN DEL ESTADO

                                   CRÉDITO IDA 3414-HO
              "PROYECTO GESTIÓN ECONÓMICA Y FINANCIERA"

                                  Informe Final de Cierre

1. ANTECEDENTES

El Convenio de Crédito del Proyecto Gestión Económica y Financiera No. 3414-HO,
suscrito en octubre del año 2000, entre el Gobierno de la República de Honduras y la
Asociación Internacional del Desarrollo (IDA), por un monto de DEG 14,400,000.00
(Catorce Millones Cuatrocientos Mil Derechos Especiales de Giro)2, entró en vigencia a
partir de su publicación en el Diario Oficial La Gaceta, el 6 de enero de 2001;
inicialmente se estableció como fecha de cierre el 31 de agosto de 2004, posteriormente
el Banco Mundial aprobó dos extensiones, quedando el 30 de septiembre de 2006, como
fecha de cierre final del Proyecto.

2. OBJETIVOS

El objetivo del Proyecto es profundizar en las reformas del Sector Público iniciadas por el
Gobierno de la República de Honduras bajo el PSMP3, para: (a) Mejorar la transparencia
y la contabilidad en la asignación y uso de los recurso públicos; (b) Desarrollar un plan
presupuestario y capacidad de evaluación de SEFIN y las Secretarias participantes; y, (c)
Asistir al Prestatario en la realización de la reestructuración institucional dentro de los
sectores de telecomunicación, puertos, correo, y otros servicios públicos, y el
fortalecimiento de la capacidad técnica de las entidades regulativas.

3. EVALUACION DE LOS OBJETIVOS

Se han alcanzado los objetivos del proyecto racionalizando los puestos de trabajo en el
sector público, mejorando y aumentado los controles de recursos humanos, aplicando
políticas modernas en esta área, perfeccionando la programación sectorial y priorizando
las actividades del gasto público; también se ha incrementado la eficiencia y
transparencia en la obtención de servicios públicos de calidad, aumentando su cobertura y
mejorando la planificación y desempeño de las instituciones involucradas.



2Equivalente a US $ 19 millones (dólares americanos).
3Programa de Modernización para el Sector Público.


                                                 39

Asimismo se ha incrementado la transparencia y responsabilidad en el uso de los recursos
públicos, estableciendo estándares y procedimientos en las nuevas auditorias realizadas
bajo la supervisión y legislación del Tribunal Superior de Cuentas.

4. EVALUACION DEL DISEÑO Y LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO

4.1. Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional del TSC4

El componente a cargo del TSC, se ha mantenido con un diseño predeterminado, por ser
en su origen un esfuerzo que se inicia con la antigua CGR5, manteniendo los mismos
objetivos que sirvieron de guía para llevar adelante las acciones de asistencia técnica,
capacitación y equipamiento, todo ello con el fin único de fortalecer y mejorar las
capacidades de la institución. A continuación se procede a evaluar las actividades que
han contribuido de manera al fortalecimiento del TSC y a su desarrollo institucional
sostenible:

· Ante proyecto de Ley del TSC. Esta consultaría representa el inicio de la
   institucionalidad buscada pero, sobretodo, la manifestación formal de la
   independencia del TSC a través del estudio y propuesta de un ante proyecto de Ley
   que luego se sanciona en el Congreso Nacional, convirtiéndose en la Ley Orgánica
   del TSC, con mandato y atribuciones lo suficientemente amplias para ejercer un
   control integral y abarcador, en la medida en que se lleve adelante una gestión del
   control que equilibre y complemente las funciones de probidad y ética con las
   funciones clásicas del control gubernamental.
· Socialización y Difusión del TSC. Esta consultoría desarrolló una campaña de
   comunicación y difusión bien estructurada que dio a conocer la nueva entidad de
   control en toda su dimensión, también ha representado otro punto de partida para
   estructurar una Dirección de Comunicación que aporte directamente al desarrollo y
   posicionamiento rápido que requiere el TSC.
· Sistematización de la participación ciudadana en la lucha contra el fraude y la
   corrupción. Se llevaron a cabo talleres de participación ciudadana en más de 70
   municipios, lo mismo que la capacitación del personal en los nuevos conceptos de
   auditoria articulada. Se muestra un avance importante en esta materia de parte del
   TSC.
· Fortalecimiento de la Auditoria de Gestión. Esta consultaría fue menester llevarla a
   cabo, por la débil formación técnica aún vigente en la institución. Hoy en día este tipo
   de auditoria se practica en buena parte de la administración pública y se pretende
    incluso avanzar hacia la auditoria integral.
· Diseño Organizativo del Departamento de Organización y Métodos y
    procedimientos operativos del TSC. Esta consultoría significó la generación de 21
    productos normativos (7 manuales de procedimiento, 8 guías y 6 informes), que



4Tribunal Superior de Cuentas
5Contraloría General de la República


                                             40

    permitirán ordenar y fortalecer internamente a la organización del TSC, y contar con
    manuales de procedimiento y otros instrumentos normativos que contribuyan
    uniformar la práctica de la auditoria, respondiendo a parámetros internacionales.
· Elaboración del Plan Estratégico de Capacitación y Profesionalización del TSC.
    Se suscribió un convenio con la UNAH6 para tecnificar y elevar el nivel académico
    del personal asimilado de las dos anteriores entidades que dieron origen al TSC.
· Adquisiciones de Equipos y Mobiliarios. En el marco de los objetivos establecidos
    en el convenio de crédito, el TSC ha cubierto en un 90% sus necesidades de
    equipamiento a través de las inversiones en equipo como ser: computadoras, con sus
    respectivos UPS, impresoras, licencias de software,       vehículos y mobiliarios de
    oficina incluyendo sistemas modulares para todo el edificio del TSC.

4.2. Componente SEFIN7

A continuación se presenta la evaluación de las actividades que han contribuido de
manera directa y determinante al fortalecimiento y desarrollo institucional de la SEFIN:

· Diseño del Marco Legal: Este diseño incluye la emisión de regulaciones apropiadas
    para regir la operación del SIAFI8 dentro el sector público; los resultados alcanzados
    se detallan como sigue: a) Ley Orgánica de Presupuesto Decreto No.83-2004
    (21/06/'04); b) Reglamento de la Ley Orgánica Acuerdo Ejecutivo (AE) No.419
    (10/05/'05); c) Normas Técnicas de Presupuesto AE No.1154 (30/11/'05); d) Normas
    Técnicas de Contabilidad AE No.1087 (09/11/'05); e) Normas Técnicas de Crédito
    Público AE No.1167 (07/12/'05); f) Normas Técnicas de Tesorería AE No.139
    (23/01/'06); g) Normas Técnicas de Inversiones Públicas AE No.0321 (03/03/'06).
· Culminación de la Reestructuración Institucional: Se ha efectuado una
    reestructuración administrativa y funcional de la SEFIN, en base a la Ley Orgánica de
    Presupuesto, su reglamento y las normas técnicas que asigna las funciones que deben
    cumplir las Direcciones Generales de esta Secretaría. Por otro lado se han concluido
    los relevamientos y su correspondiente propuesta de reingeniería a los procedimientos
    que corresponden a la Secretaria General y que no están comprendidos dentro de los
    módulos del Nuevo SIAFI.
· Mejoramiento de la Capacidad Técnica de SEFIN: Se mejoró la capacidad
    institucional para formular, coordinar, ejecutar y evaluar políticas concernientes a las
    finanzas públicas y al presupuesto del prestatario. Los resultados son: a) Adquisición
    de todos los Bienes y Servicios previstos en el plan de adquisiciones, que cubre
    necesidades informáticas vinculadas al Nuevo SIAFI en la SEFIN y en las
    instituciones de la Administración Central y Descentralizada; b) Actualización de la
    red de comunicación SIAFI, una red inteligente; c) Renovación de equipo por
    obsolescencia y compra de servidores y equipos de comunicación para el Centro de
    Cómputo del SIAFI; d) Alimentación del sitio WEB de SEFIN; e) Cobertura de
    necesidades básicas de las Unidades de bienes nacionales; f) Licenciamiento y


6Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras
7Secretaria de Finanzas
8Sistema de Administración Financiera Integrada


                                               41

    capacitación para el funcionamiento del sistema sobre comunicación, enrutamiento,
    redes y seguridad; g) Convenio con UNCTAD para la actualización del SIGADE9 a
    la versión 5.3, incluye el registro de la deuda externa, interna y la deuda privada que
    registra el BCH10.
· Implementación del SIAFI. Se ha efectuado un nuevo diseño conceptual y
    desarrollo informático del SIAFI para convertirlo en instrumento de la administración
    pública, integrando los sistemas de presupuesto, contabilidad, tesorería, crédito
    público, Uepex, administración de bienes y, recursos humanos, para constituir no
    solamente un sistema de registro sino fundamentalmente un sistema de gestión,
    orientado a reemplazar el flujo de papeles por el flujo de información computarizada
    y la operatoria de la Cuenta Única de manera que los proveedores o beneficiarios que
    contratan con el Estado reciban sus pagos directamente en su cuenta bancaria,
    logrando mayor efectividad en los procesos de pago en tiempo y forma. A la fecha el
    total de la Administración central está operando con el sistema y durante el 2007 se
    iniciará la implantación de las instituciones descentralizadas.
· Programa de Capacitación de SIAFI. Se ha efectuado la capacitación conceptual e
    informática a 3,213 usuarios del Nuevo SIAFI que laboran en las Instituciones de la
    Administración Central y Descentralizadas hasta diciembre 2006 mediante: a) 29
    cursos de Formulación Presupuestaria con énfasis en Gestión por Resultados para
    usuarios de las instituciones de la Administración Central y Descentralizada, en total
    858; b) 69 cursos de Beneficiarios, Programación Financiera, Cuenta Única y
    Ejecución de Gastos e Ingresos, Uepex, y Modificaciones presupuestarias a usuarios
    de las Instituciones de la Administración Central y SEFIN en total 2,772.

4.3. Componente de Reformas Regulatorias a través de la CPME11

Los esfuerzos realizados por la CPME se enmarcan dentro de sus responsabilidades de
promover, gestionar e impulsar los procesos de reforma de los sectores productivos,
incluyendo aquellos determinados como prioritarios por su impacto socio-económico y
en la competitividad del país, como son: agua potable y saneamiento, energía, puertos, y
telecomunicaciones, entre otros. A continuación se describen las acciones ejecutadas en
estos Sectores:

Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento.

La CPME ha tenido un papel coordinador preponderante en el ordenamiento y reforma
del sector de agua potable y saneamiento. A continuación se describen las actividades
desarrolladas en este sector:

· Promulgación de la Ley Marco del Sector. Aprovechando la voluntad política y la
    capacidad institucional, se concretó la legislación del sector con la promulgación de
    la Ley Marco del Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento (Decreto No.118-2003) y su



9Sistema de Gestión de Deuda
10Banco Central de Honduras
11Comisión Presidencial de Modernización del Estado


                                                 42

    correspondiente Reglamento (Acuerdo No.006-2004), instrumentos que estipulan
    una nueva política e institucionalidad sectorial, con separación de las funciones de
    planificación, operación y regulación de los servicios.
· Creación de la Nueva Institucionalidad Sectorial. En base a este marco legal se
    crearon los entes centrales del sector, el CONASA12, ente rector de políticas y
    planificación estratégica, y el ERSAPS13, con funciones de regulación y control en la
    prestación de los servicios; la Ley también dispone la reorganización del SANAA14,
    en un ente técnico de apoyo sectorial, transfiriendo a las Municipalidades las
    funciones ejecutivas y operativas de los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento. Las
    nuevas instituciones ya están implementadas y en proceso de consolidación.
· Formulación del PEMAPS15. La CPME, además de haber liderado e impulsado la
    promulgación del marco jurídico del sector, encabezó las negociaciones del Gobierno
    con el Banco Mundial para formular el PEMAPS; cuya elaboración contó con la
    participación de las instituciones rectoras antes descritas. El Plan fue presentado
    oficialmente por el Directorio de CONASA en Septiembre de 2006 y su
    financiamiento está siendo gestionado con la cooperación internacional.
· Socialización de las Reformas Sectoriales. Dentro del proceso de reforma sectorial
    se han realizado varios seminarios bajo la coordinación y participación de la CPME,
    la Secretaría de Salud, el SANAA, CONASA y el ERSAPS, entre otros. En estas
    actividades han participado funcionarios y personal de los distintos foros sociales e
    instituciones que coordinan y ejecutan proyectos de agua y saneamiento. Dicho
    proceso se dirige a obtener el fortalecimiento, la adecuada coordinación y el
    ordenamiento del sector. Para dar a conocer la Ley Marco del Sector, se ha
    implementado una estrategia de socialización, a través de varios seminarios en
    diferentes alcaldías del país en forma conjunta con el ERSAPS y el apoyo de varias
    ONG's.

Sector Energía

Las actividades desarrolladas han sido diversas en este sector, no obstante, los avances se
han visto limitados y diferidos mayormente por la sensibilidad de la reforma, criterios en
ocasiones divergentes sobre cursos y celeridad de acciones a seguir e incidencias del
sector privado. Los adelantos en el proceso de reforma incluyen:

· Modificaciones a la Ley Marco del Subsector Eléctrico. Se modificó el marco
    legal vigente del Sector y otras leyes y decretos, con el propósito de: a) Fortalecer la
    capacidad del Estado en el establecimiento de la política energética; b) Fortalecer la
    función reguladora del Estado; c) Promover la ampliación del servicio eléctrico; d)
    Promover incentivos al desarrollo de fuentes de energía renovable; c) Hacer más
    eficientes los mecanismos y precios para el acceso a las redes; d) Remoción de
    barreras y promoción de la participación e inversión privada; e) Racionalización de



12Consejo Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
13Ente Regulador de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
14Servicio Autónomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillado
15Plan Estratégico de Modernización del Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento.


                                                  43

    tarifas y formación de precios; d) Fomento de competencia en generación y reducción
    de costos del suministro; y e) Integración con el mercado eléctrico regional y
    cumplimiento con el tratado marco de dicho mercado.
· Reestructuración Institucional. La CPME inició el proceso de contratación de una
    firma consultora especializada para asistir al Estado, y en particular a la ENEE16, en
    la ejecución de las tareas contempladas para el proceso de reestructuración, que
    incluye la separación vertical de las actividades de generación, transmisión, control y
    distribución y la segmentación horizontal en unidades independientes de negocio

Sector Puertos

En este Sector, la CPME avanzó en la elaboración de un diagnóstico y una propuesta de
estrategia tendiente a definir una política de reforma y determinar el modelo institucional
más apropiado; en este contexto se emprendieron varios procesos importantes como:

· Reforma del Sector de Puertos. Se contrataron varias asesorías para el proceso de
    reforma de este Sector, para apoyar a las autoridades del gobierno, en los siguientes
    aspectos: a) Definición e implementación de políticas públicas y estrategia sectorial;
    b) Formulación de modelo de documentos de licitaciones públicas internacionales
    para la selección de concesionarios; c) Auditoria legal y patrimonial de la ENP; d)
    Elaboración de los reglamentos de la Ley General de Puertos; e) Proceso de
    reestructuración de la ENP17; f) Asesorar a la ENP en el diseño, desarrollo y
    ejecución de las opciones necesarias para implementar un plan estratégico que
    permita asegurar la viabilidad de la empresa en su nuevo rol; g) Formular estrategia
    para la incorporación de la participación privada en los puertos de Honduras; h)
    Revisar el marco legal, normativo e institucional para la incorporación de la
    participación privada en los puertos.
· Incremento de la Competitividad, Facilitación del Comercio y Mejoramiento de
    la Productividad. Se contrató una consultoría para asesorar al Gobierno de Honduras
    en la planificación y desarrollo de guías de seguridad marítima portuaria de acuerdo a
    la nueva legislación de la OMI          18. También se implementó un programa de
    reestructuración de la unidad de seguridad portuaria de la ENP y se estableció la
    CNPP19, culminando con la expedición del certificado de cumplimiento de normas
    internacionales de la OMI.

Sector Telecomunicaciones

La Secretaría de la Presidencia remitió al Congreso Nacional la Ley de
Telecomunicaciones y Tecnologías de la Información para su discusión y aprobación,
después de efectuar un proceso de consenso entre los principales actores del sector
telecomunicaciones y de la Consulta Pública dando cumplimientos a requerimientos de



16Empresa Nacional de Energía Eléctrica
17Empresa Nacional Portuaria
18Organización Marítima Internacional
19Comisión Nacional de Protección Portuaria


                                               44

DR-CAFTA20. De la misma manera se envío al seno del Congreso Nacional la Ley de
Fortalecimiento para la HONDUTEL21. La CPME coordinó esta gestión para el Poder
Ejecutivo con buen suceso, obteniendo un producto que contiene los parámetros para la
regulación de mercado del sector telecomunicaciones.

5. EVALUACION DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

El desempeño demostrado por la CPME como Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
Gestión Económica y Financiera Crédito IDA 3414-HO así como el TSC y la SEFIN en
su rol de Unidades Ejecutoras ha sido eficiente culminando oportunamente con la
ejecución del cien por ciento de las actividades y metas programadas.

La CPME como Unidad Coordinadora cumplió con los aspectos administrativos y
financieros manteniendo la disponibilidad de recursos para alimentar a las Unidades
Ejecutoras quienes a su vez cumplieron oportunamente con la presentación de los
diferentes reportes financieros, aplicando procedimientos contables establecidos. Cada
Unidad Ejecutora mantiene los archivos adecuados de toda la documentación soporte que
evidencian la utilización de los recursos asignados a cada componente.

Respecto a las adquisiciones y contrataciones se manejaron diferentes procesos en forma
transparente siguiendo las recomendaciones oportunas surgidas de las comunicaciones
sostenidas con el Banco y aplicando las normas y procedimientos correspondientes los
cuales se reflejan en los informes de las evaluaciones así como en los informes de
auditoria.

6. EVALUACION DE DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO

Durante la ejecución del Proyecto el Banco realizó progresos considerables en el empeño
de centrar más claramente sus estrategias de asistencia en concordancia con los
lineamientos establecidos por la administración del Gobierno durante ese período (2002-
2005) tanto en materia de operaciones crediticias como de servicios de asesoría, y de
asociar más estrechamente sus decisiones presupuestarias a las metas de tales estrategias
reestructurándose el crédito en Marzo de 2004.

La misión residente del Banco desempeñó una función importante apoyando al Gobierno
en la identificación de nuevas operaciones y manteniendo una estrecha comunicación con
los principales entes involucrados.

El equipo administrativo y técnico del Banco en Washington mantuvo su constante apoyo
al proyecto y atendió positivamente todas las solicitudes de diferente índole presentadas
por las Unidades Ejecutoras. Realizó visitas al proyecto en numerosas ocasiones, propició
capacitación en el área financiera y de adquisiciones contribuyendo así con el
mejoramiento profesional de los ejecutores.



20Tratado de Libre Comercio
21Empresa Hondureña de Telecomunicaciones


                                             45

Aún con el desfase producto de la transición de CGR al nuevo ente rector del control de
los recursos públicos, el Banco Mundial mantuvo su apoyo al proyecto y atendió
positivamente todas las solicitudes de diferente índole, presentadas por la Unidad
Ejecutora, contribuyendo exitosamente a la gestión del componente.

7. PROPUESTA PARA LA SUSTENTABILIDAD FUTURA DEL PROYECO

7.1. Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional del TSC

Con el fin de darle sustentabilidad al fortalecimiento alcanzado a través del Componente
"Fortalecimiento Institucional del TSC" Crédito-IDA-3414-HO, la Institución esta
realizando los esfuerzos necesarios para continuar con su desarrollo Institucional y
Organizacional y para ello se ha implementado en el plan de auditoria la Unidad de
Auditoria de Gestión y se propone encarar con éxito el nuevo proyecto "Componente de
Asistencia de Apoyo a la Estrategia de Reducción de la Pobreza " a través del Crédito-
IDA-3939-HO así como asegurar la viabilidad del Plan Estratégico Institucional
y el proyecto de Apoyo al SINACORP22, así como fortalecer o suscribir Convenios de
Cooperación con instituciones similares para el intercambio de experiencias y
conocimientos en temas como la lucha contra la corrupción.

7.2. Componente SEFIN

El Componente ha contado, en cuanto a la transferencia de conocimientos para fortalecer
la capacidad nacional, con un involucramiento directo de personal nacional para
institucionalizarlo. Adicionalmente, se ha propuesto al Banco, iniciar un proceso para el
estudio e implementación de un Plan de Sostenibilidad del Proyecto, para lo cual se tiene
avanzada la próxima realización de un proceso de evaluación de las fortalezas y
debilidades del sistema por parte de expertos de Guatemala y un programa de visitas a la
República de Guatemala y Perú para conocer las experiencias vividas en este campo y
adaptarlas al sistema de Honduras.

7.3. Componente de Reformas Regulatorias a través de la CPME

Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento.

El proceso de reforma sectorial debe continuar con la consolidación de los entes rectores,
y la implementación del PEMAPS, para alcanzar los objetivos previstos en la Ley Marco,
y garantizar a la población hondureña, servicios con calidad y eficiencia, bajo principios
de equidad y solidaridad en todos los municipios del país.

En el marco del Crédito IDA 3939-HO que administra la CPME, se tiene previsto
continuar apoyando a la Secretaría Técnica del CONASA y al ERSAPS en el
fortalecimiento de sus funciones, para lo cual se han destinado US$ 234,830.00 que serán
ejecutados en el 2007. Las metas previstas a alcanzar son las siguientes:



22Sistema Nacional de Control de los Recursos Públicos


                                                 46

· Continuar con el proceso de transferencia de los acueductos a cargo de SANAA, a sus
    respectivas Municipalidades y Juntas de Agua; en diciembre de 2006 transfirió los
    primeros 9 acueductos rurales y cuenta con un calendario para el traspaso de los 24
    sistemas restantes, que finaliza en agosto de 2008, de acuerdo a lo estipulado en la
    Ley.
· Apoyar a la Secretaría Técnica del CONASA en sus funciones de ente técnico
    sectorial.
· Apoyar al ERSAPS en el proceso de difundir e implementar los instrumentos
    regulatorios requeridos para la aplicación de la Ley Marco.
· Reactivar la Mesa Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, promovida por la
    Secretaria de la Presidencia, en la cual se gestionará el recurso financiero para la
    implementación del PEMAPS y la ejecución de los proyecto de inversión requerida
    para alcanzar las metas del Milenio y la ERP.23

Sector Energía

En el marco del Crédito IDA 3939-HO que administra la CPME, se tiene previsto
continuar apoyando al ente regulador de energía CNE24 y la ENEE en el fortalecimiento
de sus funciones, para lo cual se han destinado US$ 1,200,000.00 que serán ejecutados en
el 2007 y 2008 y se previene alcanzar la siguiente gestión:

· Elaboración de los Reglamentos Específicos derivados de la Ley Marco del Sector
    Energía.Comprenden la elaboración de la reglamentación necesaria para el
    fortalecimiento institucional de la CNE, proporcionándole los elementos esenciales
    que le permitan cumplir su papel de frente a los retos y oportunidades que encara en
    un entorno sectorial en constante evolución, dinámico y altamente competitivo.
· Reestructuración institucional de la ENEE. Realizar una reestructuración tendiente a
    analizar la conformación en Unidades Independientes de Negocio con la capacidad de
    separar las actividades de generación, transmisión y distribución, administrativamente
    y contablemente para llevar un mejor control de los costos de cada actividad.
· Identificar factores que incidan en el aumento de ingresos tomando en consideración
    la operatividad de la ENEE.

Sector Puertos

En el marco del Crédito IDA 3939-HO que administra la CPME, se tiene previsto
continuar apoyando la reforma de este Sector, para lo cual se han destinado
US$ 375,000.00 que serán ejecutados en el 2007, y se previene alcanzar las siguientes
metas:




23Estrategia de Reducción de la Pobreza.
24Comisión Nacional de Energía.


                                             47

· Cumplir con los requisitos legales con la realización de los Estudios de Impacto
    Ambiental para las obras de las terminales de Granel y Contenedores de Puerto
    Cortés.
· Contratar los servicios de asesoría para la elaboración de un Plan de Negocios para la
    realización del proceso de incorporación de participación privada en las terminales de
    Puerto Cortés según el interés del Estado.

Sector Telecomunicaciones

En el marco del Crédito IDA 3939-HO que administra la CPME, se tiene previsto
continuar apoyando al ente regulador de las telecomunicaciones CONATEL 25 y al
HONDUTEL en el fortalecimiento de sus funciones, la para lo cual se han destinado
US$ 520,000.00 que serán ejecutados en el 2007, y se previene ejecutar las siguientes
actividades:

· Elaboración del Diseño y Suministro de Modelos, Metodologías y Herramientas para
    la Regulación Económica de los Servicios de Telecomunicaciones. Los servicios
    deben conducir al fortalecimiento institucional de CONATEL, proporcionándole los
    elementos esenciales de Regulación Económica que le permitan cumplir su papel de
    frente a los retos y oportunidades que encara en un entorno sectorial en constante
    evolución, dinámico y altamente competitivo.
· Elaboración de los Reglamentos Específicos derivados de La Ley del Sector
    Telecomunicaciones. Comprende la elaboración de la Reglamentación necesaria para
    el fortalecimiento institucional de CONATEL, proporcionándole los elementos
    esenciales que le permitan cumplir sus funciones.

Sistema de Gerencia Basado en Gestión por Resultados

Plan de Financiamiento Detallado:

El equipo de la CPME que desarrolla el Sistema de Gerencia basado en Gestión por
Resultados (SGPR) conjuntamente con el Banco Mundial y con el BID desarrolló una
propuesta detallada de financiamiento, Para cada actividad se detallan objetivos
específicos, resultados esperados y tiempos previstos de ejecución. La propuesta
detallada de financiamiento se desarrolla a partir de las cuatro áreas de trabajo
identificadas en el taller realizado el pasado Diciembre 1 de 2006, las cuales son: 1)
Fortalecimiento de la Planificación (US$570,000), 2) Desarrollo de Capacidades de
Monitoreo y Evaluación (US $ 360,000), 3) Arreglos y Coordinación Institucionales
(US$225,000), y 4) Información Pública (US$1,085,000).

Específicamente el Crédito IDA 3939-HO tiene disponible para el sistema de Gerencia
Basado en Gestión por Resultados la suma, de US$ 1,000,000.00 para ser ejecutados




25Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones


                                            48

durante los años 2007 y 2008. Este proyecto ha presentado un significativo avance
durante el año 2006.




                                     49

PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION FOR THE MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE

                                    IDA CREDIT 3414-HO
           "ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT"

                                    Final Closing Report
                                     (Unofficial translation)

BACKGROUND

The Credit Agreement of the Economic and Financial Management Project Nr. 3414-HO,
signed in October 2000 between the Government of the Republic of Honduras and the
International Development Association (IDA), for an amount of SDR 14,400,000.00
(fourteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights)26, came into force on
January 6th 2001, the day of its publication in the Official Journal La Gaceta; August 31st
2004 had been established as the initial closing date, subsequently the World Bank
approved two extensions and September 30th 2006 was selected as the Project's final
closing date.

OBJECTIVES

The Project's development objective is to deepen the public sector reforms launched by
the Government of the Republic of Honduras under the PSMP27 by: (a) Improving
transparency and accounting in the allocation and use of public resources; (b) Developing
a budget plan and assessment capacity of the SEFIN28 and of the participating ministries;
and, (c) Assisting the Borrower in the execution of the institutional restructuring of
telecoms, ports, postal services and other public services, as well as in the strengthening
of the technical capacity of national regulators.

ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT'S OBJECTIVES

The project objectives have been reached: a) public sector positions have been
rationalized; b) human resource controls have been improved and increased, up to date
policies have been applied to this area; c) sector programming has been deepened and
public spending has been prioritized. Efficiency and transparency in the provision of
quality public services have been achieved, increasing coverage and improving planning
and performance of the related public institutions.

Likewise, transparency and responsibility in the use of public resources have been
increased by establishing auditing standards and procedures for the new audits to be
carried out under the supervision and legislation of the Higher Court of Auditors.



26equivalent to US $ 19 million (American dollars)
27Public Sector Modernization Program
28Secretaría de Finanzas or Finance Ministry


                                                  50

    ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT'S DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION

Institutional Strengthening of the TSC29 Component

The original design of the TSC component has been maintained as it was the product of
an effort conducted by the former CGR30; specifically, the objectives used as guidelines
for promoting technical assistance, training and procurement activities were kept, with
the ultimate aim to strengthen and improve institutional capacity. Here follows an
assessment of the activities that have significantly contributed to the strengthening of the
TSC and to its sustainable institutional development:

· TSC Bill of Law. This consulting activity represents the first step for achieving
   institutionalization, but more importantly the formal TSC's independence statement.
   This is achieved through the preparation and submission of a Bill of Law, later
   endorsed by Congress and turned into the Organic TSC Law, with sufficiently
   extensive mandate and attributions to exert an integral and encompassing control as
   long as its translates into a control management that balances and complements the
   classic functions of Government control with probity and ethic monitoring.

· TSC Socialization and Dissemination. This consulting activity prompted a well
   structured communication and dissemination campaign that publicized the new
   control institution in all its dimensions; it has also been a first step for the creation of
   a Communication Department that would directly contribute to the development and
   prompt positioning that TSC requires.

· Systematization of citizens' participation in the combat against fraud and
   corruption. Workshops were organized in over 70 municipalities on citizens'
   participation as well as on human resource training in the new concepts of articulated
   auditing. The TSC has made significant progress in this area.

· Strengthening of Management Audits. This consulting activity has been justified in
   view of the weak technical expertise within the institution. Nowadays this type of
   audit is widely performed across the public administration. The next goal would be to
   perform integral auditing.

· Organizational Design of the Department in charge of Organization and
   Methods, and TSC Operative Procedures. This consulting activity yielded 21
   normative products (7 procedure manuals, 8 guides and 6 reports); they will enable to
   systematize and internally strengthen the organization of the TSC, while contributing
   to the harmonization of auditing practices according to international standards.




29Tribunal Superior de Cuentas or Higher Court of Auditors
30Contraloría General de la República or Comptroller Office


                                                  51

· Elaboration of the TSC Training Strategic Plan. An agreement was signed with
    the UNAH31 University to provide training and increase the academic level of the
    TSC staff originally working at the two entities that merged into the TSC.

· Equipment and Furniture Procurement. Within the framework of the objectives
    established in the credit agreement, the TSC has covered 90% of its equipment needs
    through investment in equipment, such as: computers with their respective UPS,
    printers, software licenses, vehicles and office furniture, including modular systems
    for the whole TSC building.

SEFIN Component

Herein follows an assessment of the activities that have directly and explicitly contributed
to SEFIN's strengthening and institutional development:

· Legal Framework Design: This includes the promulgation of adequate regulations to
    oversee SIAFI32's operations within the public sector. The following results have
    been obtained: a) Budget Organic Law Decree Nr. 83-2004 (21/06/'04); b)
    Regulations of the Organic Law Executive Agreement (EA) Nr. 419 (10/05/'05); c)
    Budget Technical Norms EA Nr. 1154 (30/11/'05); d) Accounting Technical Norms
    EA Nr. 1087 (09/11/'05); e) Public Credit Technical Norms EA Nr. 1167 (07/12/'05);
    f) Treasury Technical Norms EA Nr. 139 (23/01/'06); g) Public Investment Technical
    Norms EA Nr. 0321 (03/03/'06).
· Completion of the Institutional Restructuring: An administrative and functional
    restructuring of the SEFIN has been implemented, based on the Budget Organic Law,
    its internal regulations and the technical norms that spell out the functions of the
    general offices of this Ministry. The surveys and their respective procedure
    reengineering proposals, which fall within the competence of the General Office and
    that are not included in the modules of the New SIAFI, have been concluded.
· SEFIN's Technical Capacity Improvement: The institutional capacity for
    formulating, coordinating, executing and assessing public finance policies and the
    borrowers' budget was improved. The following results were attained: a)
    Procurement of the totality of goods and services listed in the procurement plan
    covering information technology needs related to the New SIAFI in the SEFIN and in
    the Central Government and decentralized institutions; b) Upgrading of the SIAFI
    communication network, an intelligent network; c) Renovation obsolete equipments
    and acquisition of servers and communication equipments for the SIAFI's IT center;
    d) Updating of the SEFIN's website; e) Covering the basic needs of the National
    Goods units; f) Training on how the system works in terms of communication,
    routing, network and security; g) Agreement with the UNCTAD for SIGADE33's




31Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras
32Sistema de Administración Financiera Integrada or Integrated Financial Management System
33Sistema de Gestión de Deuda or Debt Management System


                                                 52

    upgrading to the 5.3 version, including the registry of the external, domestic and
    private debt managed by the BCH34.
· SIAFI Implementation. A new conceptual design and information technology
    development of the SIAFI has been undertaken in view of transforming it into a
    public administration tool that integrates budget, accounting, treasury, public credit,
    Uepex, material and human resources management systems. The system is not a mere
    registration tool, but has fundamentally become a management system, that
    substitutes the paper flow with computerized information registries and includes the
    unique account methodology by which providers or beneficiaries contracting with the
    Government receive payments directly in their bank accounts. This will improve the
    payment processes in terms of time and method. To date, the whole Central
    Administration is operating within the system and decentralized institutions are
    scheduled to be connected to the network in the course of 2007.
· SIAFI Training Program. Up to December 2006, 3,213 users of the New SIAFI
    working in the Central Government and in the Decentralized Administration have
    benefited from a conceptual and information technology training by way of: a) 29
    Budget Formulation courses, with focus on Management by Results that benefited a
    total of 858 users of the Central Government and the Decentralized Administration;
    b) 69 courses on Beneficiaries, Financial Programming, Unique Account and
    Expenditure and Revenue Execution, Uepex, and Budget Modifications that benefited
    a total of 2,772 users of the Central Administration and SEFIN.

Regulatory Reforms through the CPME35 Component

The efforts made by the CPME took place in the context of its attributions of promoting,
managing and jump starting the reform process of the productive sectors, including those
selected as priorities for their socio-economic impact and their effect on the country's
competitiveness, such as: drinking water and sanitation, energy, ports, and telecoms,
among others. Below follows a description of executed actions in these sectors:

Water and Sanitation

The CPME has played a prominent coordinating role in the organizing and reform of the
drinking water and sanitation sector. Here follows a description of the activities put into
action within the sector:

· Promulgation of the Sector Framework Law. Taking advantage of the political will
    and the institutional capacity, the sector's legislation was completed through the
    promulgation of the Framework Law of the Drinking Water and Sanitation Sector
    (Decree Nr. 118-2003) and of its related regulations (Agreement Nr. 006-2004),
    instruments that put in place a new sector's policy and institutionalism, where the
    functions of planning, operating and service regulations are clearly defined.



34Banco Central de Honduras or Honduras Central Bank
35Comisión Presidencial de Modernización del Estado or Presidential Commission for the Modernization
of the State


                                                53

· Creation of the New Sector's Institutionalism. Based on this legal framework, two
    main entities for the sector were founded: the CONASA36, policy and strategic
    planning regulator, and the ERSAPS37, with regulatory and control function for
    service provision; the Law also prescribes the restructuring of the SANAA38 into a
    technical support body and entrusts Municipalities with executive and operative
    functions in the provision of drinking water and sanitation. The new institutions are
    already in place and in process of being strengthened.
· PEMAPS39 Formulation. Besides having pioneered and lead the promulgation of the
    legal framework of the sector, the CPME, in conjunction with all previously
    mentioned national entities, carried out the negotiations with the World Bank on the
    Government's behalf to formulate the PEMAPS. The Plan was officially presented by
    CONASA's Directorate in September 2006 and its financing is being negotiated with
    the donors' community.
· Dissemination of Sector Reforms. Within the sector's reform process several
    workshops have been organized, under the coordination and with the participation of
    the CPME, the Health Ministry, the SANAA, the CONASA and the ERSAPS, among
    others. The workshops were attended by staff of various social forums and
    institutions that coordinate and execute water and sanitation projects. This process
    aims at attaining the strengthening, an adequate coordination and the organization of
    the sector. In order to advertise the sector's Framework Law, a dissemination strategy
    has been implemented through various workshops held in several municipalities of
    the country in conjunction with the ERSAPS and the support of several NGOs.

Energy

Various and diverse activities have been developed in this sector, and yet progress has
been modest, limited and delayed mainly for the sensitive character of the reform,
occasional diverging criteria on the course and speed of the actions to take as well as for
the intervention and role of the private sector. Progress made in the reform process
includes:

· Amendments to the Framework Law of the Electric Sub-sector. The current legal
    framework of the sector has been modified as have several other related laws and
    decrees, with the aim to: a) Strengthening the State's capacities for defining its energy
    policy; b) Strengthening the Government's regulatory role; c) Promoting the
    extension of electric services; d) Promoting incentives to the development of
    renewable energy sources; c) Rendering mechanisms and prices more efficient for
    network access; d) Removing barriers and promoting private participation and



36Consejo Nacional de Agua Potable y Sanieamiento or National Council for Water and Sanitation
37Ente Regulador de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento or National Regulator for Water and
Sanitation Services
38Servicio Autónomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillado or Autonomous National Service for
Aqueducts and Sewage Network
39Plan Estratégico de Modernización del Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento or Strategic Plan for the
Modernization of the Drinking Water and Sanitation Sector


                                                  54

    investment; e) Rationalizing tariffs and price formation mechanisms; f) Promoting
    competitiveness in electricity generation and cost reduction in electricity distribution;
    and e) Integrating the regional electricity market and complying with the framework
    agreement of the electricity market.
· Institutional Restructuring. The CPME has launched the hiring process of a
    consulting firm specialized in assisting the State, and in particular the ENEE40, in the
    execution of the tasks spelled out for the restructuring process, which includes the
    vertical separation of generation, transmission, control and distribution as well as the
    horizontal division in independent business units.

Ports

In this sector, the CPME moved forward in the definition of a diagnosis and a strategy
proposal for delineating a reform policy and determining the most appropriate
institutional model; in such a context, several important processes have been launched,
such as:

· Port Sector Reform. Several consultancy activities were hired for this sector's
    reform process, to support public authorities in following areas: a) Definition and
    implementation of public policies and a sector strategy; b) Preparation of document
    templates for international public bids for the selection of concessionaries; c) Legal
    and patrimonial auditing of the ENP41; d) Preparation of the regulations of the
    General Port Law; e) ENP's Restructuring Process; f) Advising the ENP on the
    design, development and execution of the different options needed to implement a
    strategic plan that ensures the viability of the company in its new role; g) Formulation
    of a strategy aiming at including private participation in Honduras' ports; h) Revision
    of the legal, normative and institutional framework to include private participation in
    port management.
· Competitiveness Increase, Trade Facilitation and Increase in Productivity. A
    consultancy was hired to advise the Government of Honduras in the planning and
    development of maritime port security guidelines according to the most recent IMO42
    legislation. A restructuring program of the ENP port security units was also
    implemented and the CNPP43 was created; furthermore, the certificate of compliance
    with IMO regulations was issued.

Telecoms

The Ministry of the Presidency submitted to the Congress the Law on
Telecommunications and Information Technologies for discussion and approval, after
seeking a consensus between the main actors of the telecom sector and public users, in




40Empresa Nacional de Energy Eléctrica, the national electricity company
41Empresa Nacional Portuaria, the national port company
42International Maritime Organization
43Comisión Nacional de Protección Portuaria or National Port Protection Commission


                                                  55

line with the requirements of the DR-CAFTA            44 . Similarly, the HONDUTEL       45

Strengthening Law was submitted to Congress. The CPME was fairly successful in
coordinating this course of action in representation of the Government, and obtained a
useful product that sets the parameters for market regulation in the telecommunication
sector.

ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER' PERFORMANCE

The performance achieved by the CPME as the Project Coordination Unit of the IDA
Credit 3414-HO Economic and Financial Management Project as well as by the TSC and
the SEFIN in their role of Project Executing Units has been timely and efficiently
completed through the execution of a hundred percent of the scheduled activities and
objectives.

The CPME as the Coordination Unit met all administrative and financial terms by
ensuring resource availability to the Project Executing Units, which, in turn, timely
completed the presentation of the various financial reports, according to established
accounting procedures. Every Project Executing Unit keep in adequate archives all the
supporting documentation that supports the use of the resources earmarked for each
component.

As for procurement and contracting, several processes were managed in a transparent
manner and following the timely recommendations spawn from interactions with the
Bank and in application of adequate norms and procedures, as reflected in the assessment
reports as well as in the audit reports.

ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE

During the Project's implementation, the Bank made significant progress in its
commitment to more clearly focus its assistance strategies in accordance with the
guidelines established by the Government over that period (2002-2005), both in terms of
credit operations and consulting services, and of linking more tightly its budgets decision
with the objectives of such strategies ­ the credit was restructured in March 2004.

The World Bank Resident Mission played a valuable role by assisting the Government in
the identification of new operations and by keeping strong communication ties with the
main entities involved.

The Bank's administrative and technical team in Washington granted the Project its
steady support and responded productively to each and every request made by the Project
Executing Units. It visited the Project in numerous occasions, provided training in
financial management and procurement, thus contributing to the professional growth of
the public officials in charge of executing the project.



44Free Trade Agreement
45Honduras Telecommunications company


                                             56

Even with the delay spawn from the transition from CGR to the new public resource
regulator, the World Bank maintained its support to the project and responded
constructively to each and every request submitted by the Project Executing Unit, thus
contributing to the success in the component' management.

PROPOSAL FOR ENSURING THE PROJECT'S SUSTAINABILITY

TSC Institutional Strengthening Component

In order to ensure the sustainability of the strengthening effort reached through the "TSC
Institutional Strengthening IDA Credit 3414-HO Component", the Institution is making
all the necessary efforts to complete its institutional and organizational development. To
that aim, an Auditing Management Unit has been implemented in the auditing plan; the
new project aims at tackling the new project "Support to the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Component" through the IDA Credit3939-HO and at ensuring the viability of the
Institutional Strategic Plan and of the SINACORP46 Support Project, as well as at
strengthening existing cooperation agreements or subscribing new ones with partner
institutions for experiences and knowledge transfers on subjects such as the fight against
corruption.

SEFIN Component

As for knowledge transfers to strengthen national capacities, this Component has
benefited, from a direct involvement of national staff in order to ensure sustainability and
to institutionalize the public servants. Additionally, it has been suggested to the Bank to
start a process for the study and the implementation a Project Sustainability Plan; in that
sense, preparation work has been laid down: Guatemalan experts will evaluate the
strengths and weaknesses of the system and visits have been scheduled to Guatemala and
Peru to learn from their experiences and adapt them to the Honduras's system.


Regulatory Reforms through the CPME Component

Water and Sanitation

The sector reform process needs to continue with the consolidation of the national
regulators and the implementation of the PEMAPS in order to reach the goals established
in the Framework Law and thus ensure to the Honduran population quality and efficiency
services, according to the principles of equity and solidarity in all municipalities across
the country.

In the framework of the IDA Credit 3939-HO managed by the CPME, we intend to
continue supporting the CONASA Technical Office and the ERSAPS in the




46Sistema Nacional de Control de los Recursos Públicos or National Public Resources Control System


                                                 57

strengthening of their functions; to that aim, US$ 234,830.00 have been earmarked to be
executed in 2007. Following goals are being sought:

· Carrying on with the process of aqueduct transferring to municipalities and Water
    Associations, of which SANAA is in charge; in December 2006 the first 9 rural
    aqueduct were transferred and the remaining 24 ones are scheduled to be transferred
    by August 2008, as stipulated in the Law.
· Supporting CONASA's Technical Office in its functions of the sector's technical
    entity.
· Supporting the ERSAPS in disseminating and implementing the needed regulatory
    tools for the application of the Framework Law.
· Reactivating the Sector's Round Table on Drinking Water and Sanitation, promoted
    by the Ministry of the Presidency, through which the financial resources for the
    PEMAPS's implementation and the investment project's execution will be sought, in
    order to reach the Millennium Goals and the PRS.47

Energy

In the framework of the IDA Credit 3939-HO managed by the CPME, we intend to
continue supporting the national energy regulator CNE            48 and the ENEE in the
strengthening of their functions; US$ 1,200,000.00 have been earmarked for that, to be
executed in 2007 and 2008. Following objectives have been set:

· Elaborating Specific Regulations, spawn from the Framework Law of the Energy
    Sector. This includes the elaboration of the needed regulations for the institutional
    strengthening of the CNE, providing essential elements that enable it to properly
    plays its role in light of the challenges and opportunities that a sector in permanent
    evolution, dynamic and highly competitive has to face.
· Tackling the institutional strengthening of the ENEE. Realizing a restructuring aimed
    at analyzing the creation of Independent Business Units able to separate ­­ both on
    the administrative and the accounting levels ­activities of generation, transmission
    and distribution to ensure a better control of the costs of each of these activities.
· Identifying factors that affect revenue increase, taking into account ENEE's
    operational issues.

Ports

Within the framework of the IDA Credit 3939-HO managed by the CPME, we intend to
continue supporting this sector's reform; to this aim, US$ 375,000.00 have been
earmarked to be executed in 2007, and following goals have been spelled out:




47Poverty Reduction Strategy
48Comisión Nacional de Energía or National Energy Commission


                                                58

· Fulfilling all legal requirements for completing the Environmental Impact
    Assessment Study for the Granel terminal public works and Puerto Cortés containers.
· Hiring consulting services for the designing of a Business Plan for the incorporation
    of private participations in Puerto Cortés's terminals, ensuring to have the State's
    interests preserved.

Telecoms

Within the framework of the IDA Credit 3939-HO managed by the CPME, we intend to
continue supporting the national telecom regulator CONATEL49 as well as HONDUTEL
in the strengthening of their functions; US$ 520,000.00 have been earmarked to that aim
to be executed in 2007; following activities are also scheduled for execution:

· Design and delivery of models, methodologies and instruments for the economic
    Regulation of Telecommunication Service Provision. Services have to contribute to
    the institutional strengthening of CONATEL, providing essential elements of
    Economic Regulation that enable it to properly plays in role in light of the challenges
    and opportunities that a sector in permanent evolution, dynamic and highly
    competitive has to face.
· Preparation of Specific Regulations, spawn from the Telecommunication Sector's
    Law. This includes the elaboration of the needed Regulations for the institutional
    strengthening of CONATEL, which will provide the essential elements for
    CONATEL to carry out its functions.

Management System Based on Management by Results

Detailed Financing Plan:

The CPME team working on the Management System Based on Management by Result
in conjunction with the World Bank and IDB developed a detailed financing proposal: for
every activity, specific objectives, expected results and anticipated execution times are
spelled out. The detailed financing proposal is divided into four parts following the four
working areas identified during the December 1st 2006 workshop, i.e. : 1) Planning
Strengthening (US$570,000), 2) Development of Monitoring and Assessment Capacities
(US $ 360,000), 3) Institutional Arrangements and Coordination (US$225,000), and 4)
Public Information (US$1,085,000).

Specifically for the Management System Based on Management by Results, the IDA
Credit 3939-HO has earmarked the amount of US$ 1,000,000.00 to be executed in 2007
and 2008. This project has made significant progress over the year 2006.




49Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones or National Telecom Commission


                                               59

               Comments received from the borrower on the Draft ICR

En relación con la evaluación expost efectuada al Proyecto Gestión Económica y
Financiera Crédito 3414-HO presentado en el Reporte de Cierre No:ICR000319, tenemos
algunas consideraciones que a nuestro criterio, deberían modificar la calificación global
de Moderadamente Satisfactoria a Satisfactoria. A continuación algunas observaciones
respecto a la ejecución del proyecto:

   a) Componente: Reformas del Sector Público y Reingeniería

Calificación otorgada: Moderadamente Satisfactoria

Calificación propuesta: Satisfactoria

   Argumentación: Los estudios para este componente se llevaron a cabo, y no obstante
   que su implantación fue parcial (por decisión política de la administración anterior),
   en la presenta administración se están analizando y retomando las estrategias de
   reformas administrativas propuestas en el Proyecto; además se resaltan los siguientes
   logros alcanzados:

       Descentralización:
       Se apoyo a la Secretaria de Gobernación y Justicia en definir y desarrollar
       políticas y estrategias de descentralización.

       Sistema de Información Tecnológica (gobierno electrónico):
       Se formularon políticas y estrategias en el sector de Infotecnologia, se priorizó el
       fortalecimiento de alianzas estratégicas, el acceso de información, y la
       capacitación al sector público mediante el diplomado de alta gerencia pública de
       la infotecnologia impartido por una firma internacional.

       Simplificación de Procedimientos Administrativos:
       Se apoyo la Corte Suprema de Justicia brindando asistencia a las reformas
       administrativas, el proceso de profesionalización del Poder Judicial también fue
       algo histórico y de gran impacto, ya que mediante la contratación de una firma se
       evaluaron aproximadamente 1,823 funcionarios judiciales.

   b) Componente: Consolidación Reformas Regulatorias

Calificación otorgada: Moderadamente Satisfactoria

Calificación propuesta: Satisfactoria

   Argumentación: Este componente se ejecutó en tiempo y forma, y a nuestro entender
   fue el componente que alcanzó mayores logros en los diferentes sectores que cubría el
   Convenio:




                                             60

       En agua potable y saneamiento se realizó un análisis sectorial (2003), concretó la
       ley marco (2003), se crearon los entes rectores, y se dieron avances significativos
       en la elaboración del plan estratégico de modernización de este sector (PEMAPS)
       y se socializaron las reformas sectoriales.

       En el sector de telecomunicaciones se creó el programa de telefonía para todos, y
       se presentó al Congreso Nacional el anteproyecto de la ley marco de este sector.

       En puertos se logró avanzar en la elaboración de un diagnóstico y una propuesta
       para definir políticas de reforma, se hizo un estudio sobre materias
       medioambientales para Puerto Cortés, se contrataron asesores para apoyar
       aspectos técnicos previos y posteriores a la implementación de la ley general de
       puertos, además se contrato una asesoría financiera y legal para la reforma
       portuaria.

       En hidrocarburos mediante contratación de consultores nacionales e
       internacionales se realizó un diagnóstico y diseño de las nuevas condiciones para
       la comercialización de los productos derivados del petróleo.

       El rol de la CPME se limitó a los alcances que le permite su ley constitutiva; las
       unidades ejecutoras trabajaron en forma eficiente, y al final la implementación de
       las reformas, dependieron de la voluntad política del Ejecutivo.

   Nota: Este componente no aparece descrito en el Anexo 2 del Reporte (indicadores de
   productos, resultados y desempeños)

   c) Componente: Reformas Gestión del Recurso Humano

Calificación otorgada: No Satisfactorio

Calificación propuesta: Moderadamente Satisfactorio

   Argumentación: la calificación asignada en el Reporte se basa en la no aprobación de
   la ley de servicio civil, sin embargo durante la ejecución del proyecto se preparó y se
   presentó el anteproyecto de esta ley en el Congreso Nacional, también se alcanzaron
   avances considerables en las otras actividades como ser las auditorias y la
   capacitación de personal.

   La Unidad Ejecutora del Tribunal Superior de Cuentas manifestó no tener
   comentarios sobre el Borrador. La Unidad Ejecutora de SEFIN hizo comentarios de
   forma no de fondo (ver documento adjunto)

Quedamos atentos a sus comentarios.




                                            61

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

      Coordination of the financial administration component of WB 3414-HO
                 with the IDBs Fiscal Management Loan 1546/SF-HO
                               (Note prepared by the IDB)

    a) Parallel activities and complementary activities:

Parallel activities of the two loans centered on the strengthening of the Ministry of
Finance (SEFIN) and the financial administration system. The IDB's 1546/SF-HO loan
was designed to complement the activities of the World Bank's loan. This involved
centering our investments in the design of procedural reforms for the different areas of
the financial management system, including a redesign of the budget classification,
treasury management, and new plan of accounts. These reforms included the design of
manuals for the different areas. These new procedures were programmed into the New
SIAFI, which on the equipment and programming side was financed by 3414. The
decision to move to a new system was done jointly by the government and the two Banks
after technical discussions on the difficulties of implementing the new processes and
procedures under the existing system.

    b) Integration and coordination of activities between the two programs.

The activities were very coordinated and integrated, and having the same Principal
Technical Advisor for the Integrated Financial Management System and SEFIN
strengthening assisted this aspect of the project execution. This allowed all activities to be
integrated into a single program of support for improving the expenditure management
capacity of the country. Furthermore, joint supervision missions were held during
execution and further coordination has been maintained in the execution of the new PRS-
TAC (3939).

    c) Relevance and quality of the results obtained in the joint work areas.

The most relevant result obtained in the SEFIN area was the complete overhaul of the
financial management system, introducing single treasury account, new budget structure
and procedures for execution, new accounting plan, etc. Obviously it has become very
relevant that expenditures are managed on a real time basis, with public access to reports
on execution on the web. This leads to more transparency and accountability, key aspects
of financial management reform.

    d) Effectiveness of coordination and cooperation activities by the Banks.

I strongly believe that the close collaboration between the two Banks has helped
Honduras make dramatic changes in their public resource management. The fact that both
Banks shared a diagnostic and had a common approach to resolving deficiencies has lead
to more noticeable results. Furthermore, the level of coordination assured that the
remaining resources of loan 3414 were used, even before resources from 1546 were



                                             62

committed, as a way to ensure that the country did not lose needed resources. This shows
strong cooperation and the advantages of having a joint program approach to an issue.

    e) World Bank's performance in the supervision of the project.

I believe the World Bank's team has done a thorough job in supervising the operation,
and maintaining the coordination with the IDB at the same level, if not more profoundly,
as during the design phase. Furthermore, cooperation in this area has led to further
cooperation in other common areas. Obviously individuals have much to do about this,
and it would be very well received for us to be able to institutionalize this practice.

    f) Other comments about lessons learned and recommendations

As I have stated before, the cooperative approach by the two Bank's has led to I believe
further relevance by the two institutions and has assisted the country in making difficult
decisions about the way public resources were being managed. The main lesson learned
is that projects are much more effective and relevant if they are placed within a program
and the institutions designing them and supervising them had a common understanding
and joint work ethic to ensure common results. It eliminates competing recommendations
that tend to overwhelm clients.




                                            63

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (2000), Project Appraisal Document, Economic and Financial Management
Project, Report No.20515-HO, August 15, 2000, Washington D.C.

Project Files (2000-2006), Supervision Missions, Aide Memoires, PRSs, ISRs and
periodic progress reports/assessments ­ Economic and Financial Management Project,
Washington D.C.

World Bank (October 24, 2000), Development Credit Agreement Economic and Financial
Management Project ­ Credit 3414-HO.

World Bank (2000), Memorandum of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on the Restructuring of the Economic and
Financial Management Project for the Republic of Honduras, Credit 3414-HO.

Comisión Presidencial de Modernización del Estado (February 2007) Informe Final de
Cierre Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a la Gestión Económica y Financiera (EFMTAC),
Crédito 3414-HO

Tribunal Superior de Cuentas (TSC) Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional del TSC -
Informe de Cierre Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a la Gestión Económica y Financiera
(EFMTAC), Crédito 3414-HO

Informe de Evaluación de Desempeño del Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a la Gestión
Económica y Financiera (EFMTAC), Crédito 3414-HO, (January 2006), elaborado por
Sharon Claesson.

Informe Final Programa de Apoyo al Fortalecimiento de la Gestión Fiscal (December
2004) ­ Consultoría para apoyar las actividades necesarias para completar el Marco
Lógico y los planes operativos anuales, elaborado por Otoniel Campos Arias.

Análisis de resultado de la consultoría (November 2006): Evaluación externa de los
programas de fortalecimiento institucional del Tribunal Superior de Cuentas bajo el
Proyecto de Gestión Económica y Financiera Crédito 3414-HO ­ así como las
necesidades futuras de apoyo para la implementación del Plan Estratégico Institucional
elaborado por Javier Diez de Medina.

Informe examen independiente de adquisiciones (2007), Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica a
la Gestión Económica y Financiera (EFMTAC), Crédito 3414-HO elaborado por Jorge
Cavero.




                                           64

