Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20515-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.4 MILLION
(US$19.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
August 15, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
LI = US$ 0.07
US$ 1 = L14.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANACI        Civil Aviation Authority                        PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy                     PSMSAC       Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment
Credit
CCP          Consultative Commission for Privatization      PSMTAC        Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance
Credit
CGR          Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic    PSMP    Public Sector Modernization Program
CNE          National Energy Commission                      SAI          Supreme Audit Institution
COHDETEL  Honduran Telecommunications Company                SCL          Superintendency of Concessions and Licenses
CONATEL    National Telecornmunications Commission           SDR          Special Drawing Rights
CPME         Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the SEFIN   Secretariat of Finance
State
DGSC         Central Civil Service Office                    SEP          Secretariat of Public Education
ENEE         National Electricity Enterprise                 SERNA        Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
GA           Administrative Management Unit (Line Secretariats) SETCO     Technical Secretariat for International Cooperation
GOH          Government of Honduras                          SIAFI        Integrated Financial Management System
GPAL         General Public Administration Law               SIARH        Comprehensive Human Resources Management
System
HONDUTEL  Honduran Telecommunications Enterprise             SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
ICAO         International Civil Aviation Organization       SINEG        National Information System for Evaluating PMRTN
IDA          International Development Association           SOPTRAVI   Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank                 SPR          Secretariat of the Presidency
IFC          International Finance Corporation               SSP          Secretariat of Public Health
JNBS         National Board for Social Welfare               UNAT         Technical Assistance Unit (Secretariat of the
Presidency)
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit (Executive Secretariat of   UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
CPME)
PEU          Performance Evaluation Unit (Secretariat of the  UPEG        Planning and Evaluation Unit (Line Secretariats)
Presidency)
PMRTN        Master Plan for National Reconstruction and    USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Transformation
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:        Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:       Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Antonio Martin del Campo



HONDURAS
ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Social                                                                             19
6. Environmental                                                                     20
7. Participatory Approach                                                            20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    20
2. Critical risks                                                                    20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    22



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             22
2. Other                                                                                22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           24
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          41
Annex 4: Summary of Benefits                                                              42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    53
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   54
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             56



HONDURAS
ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPS
Date: August 15, 2000                              Team Leader: A. C. Martin Del Campo
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: Emesto May
Project ID: P060785                                Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management, BR - Public
Enterprise Reform, BY - Other Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Public Sector; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan          1 Credit        El Grant        C Guarantee     LI Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 14.4 (US$ 19.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       4.00           0.00           4.00
IDA                                                              2.00          17.00          19.00
Total:                                                           6.00          17.00          23.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agency: EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF THE CPME
Executive Secretariat of the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State (CPME)
Address: Edificio Ejecutivo Las Lomas, 4 piso, Blvd. Juan Pablo II, Frente Casa Presidencial, Colonia Lomas Mallab,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person: Lic. Gustavo A. Alfaro, Minister - Secretariat of the Presidency
Tel: (504) 235-9369-71                Fax: (504) 235-9368                Email: cpme@hondutel.hn
Other Agency(ies):
Secretariat of Finance (SEFIN)
Contact Person: Lic. Gabriela Nufiez de Reyes, Minister - Secretariat of Finance
Tel: (504) 222-1211              Fax: (504) 238-2309                Email:
Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR)
Contact Person: Lic. Vera Sofia Rubi Avila, Comptroller General - CGR
Tel: (504) 234-4182              Fax: (504) 233-5555                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001        2002         2003        2004        2005
Annual      3.2          7.0          6.0         2.5         0.3
Cumulative     3.2          10.2         16.2        18.7        19.0
Project implementation period: Four years
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2000  Expected closing date:  08/31/2004
OCS PAD F-T   . M-h. N2



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project would support Government efforts to improve transparency and accountability in the
use and allocation of public resources; develop a budgetary planning and evaluation capacity in key
government agencies; promote institutional restructuring within the telecommunications, ports and postal
services sectors; and strengthen the technical capacity of the regulatory entities. The result would be
significantly improved planning, use and control of financial, physical and human resources; more
allocation of resources to priority programs; and a better institutional framework to facilitate the delivery of
public services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l)
Progress towards achieving the development objective will be assessed against the following key
performance indicators: increased transparency and accountability in the use of public resources; standards
and procedures for new types of audits in the new CGR legislation implemented; rationalization of public
sector employment, improved control of human resources, and application of modem human resource
policies; improved sectoral programming and priority setting of public expenditures; increased efficiency
and transparency in the procurement of goods and services by the public sector; and improved quality,
coverage and increased efficiency in the delivery of public services.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19893 HO         Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/14/99
The Honduras CAS was discussed by the Board on December 14, 1999. The overriding priority of the
CAS is the development and implementation of a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. The strategy
supports faster growth, as an essential complement to poverty reduction, through infrastructure
rehabilitation, strengthening the financial system, and private sector development. It also seeks to ensure
that progress can be sustained, through macroeconomic stability, public sector modernization, improved
governance, and stronger environmental management and disaster preparedness. The project primarily
supports the goals of public sector modernization and improved governance. To this end, the project
would complete implementation of the administrative reform component of the Government's PSMP;
strengthen economic and financial management capabilities in SEFIN and key line secretariats; integrate
human resource policies and systems; develop planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; support
development of a national standardized procurement system; strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR); and provide a modem regulatory framework for
the provision of public services. The project also would contribute to the private sector development
objective by strengthening regulatory entities that would increase investor confidence to participate in the
delivery of public services. In addition, strengthening institutional capacity and modernizing the public
sector will be key to the attainment of interrelated CAS goals, including: maintaining fiscal discipline,
effectively implementing the Government's post-Mitch reconstruction program, deepening the structural
reform agenda, and implementing an outcome-based and participatory poverty reduction strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main issues which have affected the performance of the Honduran public sector have included: an
over-extension of the State apparatus in both the central and decentralized administrations; weak sector
management and coordination; multiple and sometimes contradictory lines of authority and responsibility
- 2 -



over the decentralized administration; poor deployment of and over-dimensioned human resource
complements; low wages and high compression of the salary scale; and misapplied public sector human
resource policies.
To address these issues, in 1995 the Government initiated a Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP)
supported by IDA and other donors. The Government's strategy concentrated on three main areas: (i)
reform of public service sectors--i.e., by establishing a modern regulatory (legal-institutional) framework to
promote de-monopolization and market development based on the introduction of sound pricing policies
and the promotion of private sector participation in the provision of these services; (ii) public
administration reform through institutional restructuring of secretariats, accompanied by employment
rationalization; and (iii) reform and modernization of the key public management systems.
The PSMSAC and PSMTAC projects (Credits 2816-HO and 2814-HO, respectively) helped to implement
the first phase of the PSMP. Advances to date in the areas of privatization, governmental restructuring,
employment and salary regime rationalization, and the implementation of the first phase of an integrated
financial management system for the public sector, are summarized below.
Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Public Services
The Consultative Commission for Privatization (CCP) was created by the Government in 1995, within the
framework of the PSMP, to spearhead privatization of selected public enterprises. This Commission,
headed by SEFIN and integrated by several secretariats, has an implementation unit consisting of the
executive secretary and a small staff responsible for carrying out the privatization processes of the civil
aviation, telecommunications, and electricity sectors. To date, the CCP has obtained the approval of
several enabling Laws and Regulations in the above mentioned sectors, and (i) has completed the
concession of the four major airports; (ii) is nearing the final stage of the privatization of HONDUTEL;
and (iii) has prepared a new legal framework for the electricity sector which would, inter alia, permit
privatization of electricity distribution.
Civil Aviation. The Government strategy for civil aviation, approved in December 1998, calls for opening
the sector to competition and strengthening the regulatory framework. With the passage of the Law for the
Provision and Management of Public Services (Concessioning Law) in October 1998, the legal basis for
concessioning was set up, and a regulatory agency under the authority of the CGR, the Superintendency of
Concessions and Licenses (SCL), was established, with its Superintendent appointed by Congress. A
master concession for the four international airports was awarded in March 2000 and approved by
Congress in April 2000. On March 15, Congress approved an Open Skies Law that fully achieved the first
objective of opening the sector to competition. A new Civil Aviation Law is presently being debated in
Congress. It would create the Civil Aviation Authority (ANACI) as an independent entity in charge of the
technical regulation of the sector. Such regulatory agency should be considered as a part of an integral
transport sector regulatory agency. ANACI would oversee safety and security, by ensuring compliance
with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards and recommended practices.
Telecommunications. In 1995, the General Telecommunications Law redistributed state responsibilities in
the sector, mandated private sector participation in the provision of public services, and created the
National Telecommunications Commission (CONATEL) as the regulatory agency for the sector.
- 3 -



Congress approved the Regulations for the Telecommunications Law in May 1997 and the capitalization of
HONDUTEL in October 1998. The provisions of the capitalization HONDUTEL were modified to grant
the Executive the authority to sell 51 percent of the new company to a strategic investor via international
competitive bidding without seeking prior Congressional approval. The privatization process is now quite
advanced, and a contract is expected to be awarded by September 2000.
Electricity. Government plans include the privatization of the regional electricity distribution companies.
A Framework Law was approved in 1994 that mandates privatization of the distribution companies and
establishes the basis for tariff adjustment. A new, single regulatory entity for the sector was established in
1998.
Two studies to determine the geographical regionalization of electricity distribution were completed in 1997
and a privatization strategy for distribution companies approved in July 1998. In December 1998, the
Government decided to negotiate a contract with the IFC to serve as the investment bank for the
privatization of the National Electricity Company's (ENEE) distribution system.
The initial strategy foresaw the privatization of ENEE's distribution system, while electricity generation
and transmission would remain under the domain of this state-owned company. During the first semester
of 1999 the Government decided not only to pursue the reforms in the existing Electricity Law, but to adopt
a more comprehensive sector reform strategy that requires a new legal framework. Under this new strategy,
the Government will seek to: (i) privatize electricity distribution; (ii) open electricity generation to
competition; (iii) allow the respective generators open access to transmission lines; and (iv) establish an
independent entity to serve as the clearing house/dispatch center between the generating and distribution
companies. Currently, the Government is trying to seek consensus on how to proceed with sector
legislation.
Negotiations with IFC have been on hold pending pasage of the draft law that is now in Congress. On the
positive side, this process has taken longer than expected since a substantially broader and deeper reform
than initially envisioned could be implemented if the law is approved. Privatization of the distribution
companies could take place in 2001, if the law is passed.
Public Administrative Reform
Institutional Restructuring. In December 1996, Congress approved reforms to the General Public
Administration Law (GPAL), which had the effect of encouraging public sector entities to carry out action
plans to improve their performance. Most notable were the restructuring and decentralization efforts
undertaken by the Secretariats of Education and Health. The education sector is in the process of
increasing the management, technical, and supervisory roles of its 18 departmental offices and has
allocated 68.2 percent of its 2000 budget to basic education compared to about 52 percent in 1996. The
health sector is transferring budget management and procurement to the Departments/Regions and is
moving the system towards more emphasis on prevention and primary care.
Other restructuring includes: the outreach to private sector and civil society participation in the case of the
National Board for Social Welfare--JNBS (which transferred 80 percent of its operations to religious and
civic organizations); the Secretariat of Agriculture (which transferred agricultural extension and all of its
research to the private sector); SOPTRAVI (which subcontracts all road and airport maintenance and
construction services); and the institutional and functional streamlining of planning, economics, and
finance; the latter resulted in the elimination of SECPLAN (national planning secretariat) and the transfer
- 4 -



of policy formulation, technical cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency, as well as the
consolidation of financial management and investment programming in SEFIN.
Human Resource Management. Since launching its PSMP, the Govermment has tackled issues of
overstaffing (particularly lower level staff); compressed salaries that reduced the salaries of technical and
professional staff relative to lower level staff; overbureaucratization and politicization of human resource
management; low staff morale; poor performance; and high absenteeism. Since 1994 the reduction in the
number of staff positions in the central government and decentralized institutions (excluding teachers,
medical doctors and paramedics, civil police and defense) totaled 18 percent, thus surpassing the 10 percent
target under the PSMSAC. On the other hand, the number of special employment and salary regimes has
increased--e.g., dentists and professional nurses each have their own regime; and the assistant nurses, who
are under the civil service regime, are lobbying for another. The danger is that preferential salary treatment
may become the norm. The Government is committed to continue to rationalize employment as a way to
reduce the size of the central government wage bill; however, it is now faced with the challenge of how to
bring consistency in the way human resources are managed in the wake of pressure from special interest
groups within the public sector.
Reform and Modernization of Key Public Management Systems
Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming. SEFIN is completing the installation
of basic modules of the integrated financial management system (SIAFI) in budget, treasury, accounting
and public credit. To test the system, a prototype for SIAFI's information systems was used in the
execution of the 1999 budget and continues to be used for the preparation/execution of the 2000 budget.
Full implementation of the related computer systems in the Central Government began with a pilot that
incorporated selected secretariats. Now, after this pilot phase, the basic modules and related computer
systems are being installed throughout the Central Government. This process will be completed by
end-2000. Additionally, efforts are underway to integrate the human resource management and payroll
systems into the SIAFI. Finally, an Integrated Financial Management System Law (the Ley SIAFI) is
expected to be submitted to Congress by December 2000 to facilitate the decentralization of financial
management activities throughout the centralized and decentralized institutions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed operation would continue the process of administrative and public management reform;
integrated financial management; and institutional restructuring in the provision of public services, as
reflected in the Government's PSMP. In addition, in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, the Government
prepared a Master Plan for National Reconstruction and Transformation (PMRTN). The plan was
formally presented to the international donor community during the May 1999 Consultative Group (CG)
meeting in Stockholm. It underscores the importance of ensuring that the practice of public administration
incorporates the principles of efficiency, transparency and accountability. Improved governance and
transparency are key priorities in the Government's development agenda. In this context, the proposed
project would also address issues concerning: (i) the lack of transparency in public auditing and contracting
procedures, and (ii) the lack of efficiency and accountability, as reflected in inadequate budgetary
programming, monitoring and evaluation.
Issues: Modernizing the State
Administrative, public management and systems reform. Although there has been progress under the
PSMP, individual public sector institutions are still quite weak, and much remains to be done in the areas
- 5-



of intersecretarial coordination and systems integration. With respect to integrated financial management,
while the SIAFI system is now being installed, its full implementation will require further development of
its main tools and computer systems and the restructuring of SEFIN.
Following are the main issues with the SIAFI system that will be addressed by the proposed project: (i)
while the software already developed provides an adequate response to budget formulation and execution,
the accounting and treasury subsystems need to be strengthened and broadened; (ii) further development of
the software is also necessary to permit administrative decentralization of public finance management to
the level of the expenditure executing units; (iii) the national counterpart groups in the government agencies
need to be strengthened to ensure the sustainability of developments made to date by SIAFI; (iv) it is highly
advisable to analyze the possible incorporation of a medium-term expenditure framework; and (v) the
information technology tools need to be further developed to efficiently link all fundamental subsystems of
SIAFI and create the basis for a unified registry of accounts. Likewise, implementation of SIAFI requires
further restructuring of SEFIN. In particular, the role of the offices of budget, treasury, public credit and
accounting within SEFIN must be reformed and strengthened to adapt to the new approach and
requirements of modem public finance management.
In terms of improving human resource management for the civil service, although a comprehensive system
has been designed and the implementation phase has begun in the areas of classification of posts and
remuneration system, the implementation of this reform constitutes a major challenge for the Government.
It will require strong coordination among SEFIN, DGSC and the line secretariats to create a new culture
for human resource management based on merit and performance, and to make control of human resources
effective. With respect to systems, the Government has advanced in improving information mechanisms for
human resource management and control. However, it has yet to implement an integrated informational
tool to support this reform.
Public enterprise reform. In general, the major issues in this area concern the lack of qualified personnel,
inadequate training and weak regulatory frameworks. More specifically, continued implementation of the
reform agenda by the CCP will require strengthening its capacity to coordinate restructuring efforts.
Examples of issues in the sectors of telecommunications, civil aviation and energy include:
*   CONATEL has the authority to collect fees from operators. However, because it falls under SEFIN, its
budget is subject to SEFIN's approval. CONATEL currently has few professional employees and thus
needs to recruit and train new staff; it also needs to purchase systems to manage the radio frequency
spectrum.
*   Given that the newly-established SCL is a young agency with a small professional staff, it is essential
to strengthen its technical capacity to confront the challenges of enforcing the new civil aviation law
(once approved), fostering competition, and overseeing the compliance of concessionaires with
contractual agreements.
*   There is a need to improve the autonomy of the regulatory entity for the energy sector by financing the
contracting of capable staff and providing technical assistance geared to ensuring its ability to fulfill
its functions.
Issues: Governance and Transparency
The restructuring of the Government under the PSMP eliminated SECPLAN and transferred policy
formulation, technical cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency. It also consolidated financial
- 6 -



management and investment programming in SEFIN. As described above, there has been progress in the
development of an integrated financial management system (SIAFI), the centerpiece of the Government's
budget program, and the institutionalization of the public investment system (SISPU). The transfer of
policy issues to the Presidency has proven more difficult because of the inherent complexities, number of
institutions involved, as well as generally weak public sector management.
With the restructuring, it was expected that the line secretariats would assume responsibility for planning
and evaluation of their respective programs through their Planning and Evaluation Units (UPEGs); and that
the secretariats, including the UPEGs, would be strengthened through projects financed by bilateral and
multilateral agencies. However, although the donor-financed projects invariably include institutional
development components, they have not focused adequately on planning and evaluation at the secretariat
level. Also, a number of projects financed by the donor agencies are not incorporated into the budget
planning of the line secretariats. As a result, the UPEGs require strengthening in the areas for which they
are responsible, namely, planning, preparation and evaluation of investment projects and operational
programs, and formulation of policies.
One consequence of the dialogue with the international community, and in consonance with the basic
principles agreed at the CG Meeting in Stockholm, is the recognition of the need for the Government to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of resource allocation; develop a results-based approach to line
management and service delivery; and foster accountability through better management and screening of
public expenditures. Specific issues relate to the use of goal setting, analytical techniques in budget and
administrative decision-making, and statistical and accounting information systems, and the need for
feedback from civil society in assessing public sector performance--e.g., adequacy of delivery of essential
services.
Another issue pertains to the Comptroller General's Office (CGR), which is responsible for establishing
auditing standards and procedures. The CGR is unable to meet increased demands resulting from the
reconstruction efforts. In light of the increased investment and external assistance introduced in the
aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, the Government has decided to establish a transitional Inspectoria de
Proyectos via contracting of a consulting firm, whose fundamental purpose will be to: (i) serve as an
internal monitoring and control mechanism to ensure efficiency and transparency in public procurement;
(ii) promote the appropriate use of resources allocated to public investment; and (iii) monitor the quality of
investment projects. Financing for the Inspectoria will be provided by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB). In addition to this work in the area of public contracting, there is a need to continue working
with the CGR to modernize auditing standards and procedures and provide training and computer
equipment necessary to upgrade personnel skills and systems.
Finally, institutional capacity in procurement is generally weak throughout the public sector. The State
Contracting Law lacks its corresponding regulations, thus promoting conflicting interpretations. No
uniform organizational mechanisms and systems are in place to facilitate procurement transactions, and
there are no standardized or computerized procedures. There is insufficient training of personnel
responsible for carrying out public purchases and contracting.
Strategic choices
A strategic choice was made to group support for a range of public sector modernization efforts under one
project rather than through a series of operations. This is based partly on the fact that a number of the
reforms are interrelated and complementary, and also on the positive experience of the predecessor
PSMTAC. The proposed credit would therefore continue to strengthen the capacity of the Government to
- 7-



deal with the areas of public sector modernization by fully developing and implementing the new financial
management system, including its integration with other management systems and smoothing the
coordination between SEFIN and sector secretariats; strengthening human resource policies and
information systems, including linking of its management data base to the integrated financial management
system in SEFIN; and strengthening the restructuring of public enterprises initiated under the
PSMSAC/PSMTAC. It would also support Government efforts to improve efficiency, transparency and
accountability by strengthening the capacity for planning, monitoring, and evaluation in SEFIN and in the
line secretariats; improving public procurement policy and procedures; and strengthening the CGR through
restructuring and related capacity-building.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Component 1 - Public Finance Management and Internal Control.
The proposed credit includes completing the organization improvement in SEFIN and subsequently in the
line Secretariats to support the full implementation of SIAFI. The envisaged integrated financial
management system is designed and developed to operate in an integrated fashion in the areas of budget,
treasury, accounting, and public credit. SIAFI would have the following characteristics. There would be
an automatic simultaneous registering of each transaction in the budget current account, accounts payable,
and in the national accounts. It would operate in SEFIN and in the other secretariats, semi-autonomous
institutions, and autonomous institutions to create a systems environment, wherein all government
institutions involved in budget finance and execution would be able to carry out their activities under
centralized norms but decentralized operations, with the aim of promoting efficiency and transparency in
the use of public resources.
The Presidential Commission for Modernization of the State (CPME) would manage implementation of this
component in collaboration with SEFIN, and the objective is to have SEFIN fully in charge of SIAFI by the
end of the project period. The project would finance technical assistance, training and equipment
(computer hardware and software) to support two subcomponents:
1) Institutional Strengthening of SEFIN to implement the integrated financial management system
(SIAFI) in the areas of budget, treasury, accounting, and public credit, which would include:
(a) design of a legal framework, including the issuance of appropriate regulations, to govern the
operation of SIAFI within the public sector;
(b) completion of the organizational restructuring of SEFIN initiated under the PSMP;
(c) improvement of SEFIN's technical capacity to formulate, coordinate, execute and evaluate policies
concerning public finances and the Government's budget; and accordingly, establishment of a basis for
setting priorities for public expenditures, giving special emphasis to gender and poverty reduction;
(d) preparation and distribution of internal manuals within SEFIN, said manuals to include, inter alia,
norms and procedures for carrying out SEFIN's functions and responsibilities;
(e) design and implementation of an internal performance benchmarking system that will enable
- 8 -



SEFIN to, inter alia, measure operational efficiency and customer satisfaction and improve service
quality standards;
(f) design and implementation of a training program for SEFIN's technical and professional personnel;
(g) carrying out of a communications program to inform SEFIN's staff and the public regarding the
benefits of SIAFI; and
(h) improvement of the capacity of SEFIN's UPEG to design and analyze policies and programs
related to public investment and budgeting.
2) Strategic implementation of SIAFI, which would include:
(a) completion of the design of SIAFI's management tools, including: the adaptation of the accounting
sub-system to enable incorporation of information concerning the Government's net worth accounts and
the management of non-financial assets; the design of a sub-system to reconcile bank accounts in which
public funds are deposited; the design of a detailed plan of accounts to permit administrative
decentralization of budget execution; the design of treasury subsystem; and the integration of SIAFI's
accounting, budget, debt management and treasury subsystems.
(b) implementation of SIAFI, including all its subsystems, in all secretariats, participating
semi-autonomous institutions and participating autonomous institutions; and
(c) design and implementation of a training program with respect to the implementation and use of
SIAFI within the secretariats, participating semiautonomous institutions and participating autonomous
institutions.
Project Component 2 - Reorganization of the Comptroller General's Office (CGR)
This component builds on two developments: (a) the experience of the World Banks region-wide initiative
to support the strengthening and modernization of the supreme audit institutions (SAI) of member
countries as part of an overall strategy to promote transparency and accountability in the public sector and
Government affairs; and (b) the technical assistance to CGR provided by USAID in Honduras and El
Salvador, the European Union, and the Government of Spain. The CGR would be the executing agency for
this component, which comprises four subcomponents:
1) Institutional strengthening of CGR, to carry out the administrative and technical reorganization of
CGR, including preparation of audit standards and procedures.
2) Promotion of the social comptrollership by carrying out a program to promote the participation of civil
society in the external control process carried out by CGR.
3) Design and implementation of a comprehensive training program for CGR's staff in public financial
management, internal and external control, and auditing and evaluation of entities which manage public
resources.
4) Establishment of an information network within Sk4FI to enable CGR to obtain information concerning
the accounting practices, financial transactions and reporting requirements of the secretariats,
semi-autonomous institutions and autonomous institutions.
-9-



Project Component 3 - Human Resource Management
This component would support the Government's program to improve the development of human resource
management policies and systems through the provision of technical assistance and training. The CPME,
in collaboration with the Secretariat of the Presidency (SPR) and Central Civil Service Office (DGSC),
would manage implementation of this component, which consists of two subcomponents:
1) Establishment of a modern human resource management policy which would include:
(a) further rationalization of public employment within secretariats, semi-autonomous institutions and
autonomous institutions;
(b) preparation of a proposal to enable special employment and salary regimes goveming public
servants to be consistent with the principles contained in the Civil Service Law;
(c) preparation of a bill of law to amend the Civil Service Law to promote the efficient and flexible
management of human resources in the central Government; and
(d) improvement in the administrative, operational and technical capacity of the DGSC, the central
normative human resource management office, by providing support to its planned reorganization and
specialized training.
2) Design and implementation of a comprehensive human resource management system (SIARH), to
support the following activities:
(a) completion of the design and implementation in the DGSC and SEFIN of the SIARH Global,
which integrates essential data on employment, salaries and benefits, and organizational structures of
secretariats, semi-autonomous institutions and autonomous institutions;
(b) design and implementation of the SIARH at entity-level (SIARH Institucional), which includes
administration and evaluation of posts, job grading, payroll, training, career management, and staff
appraisal, all according to newly designed norms, processes and procedures, and the transfer of
essential data to SIARH Global; and
(c) training staff of the DGSC and human resources and financial analysts/managers of administrative
units (GAs) in the use of the SIARH as a management tool (e.g., preparation of staff budgets, job
evaluation and classification, training plans, etc.).
Project Component 4 - Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity
The component would support the Government's efforts to develop performance-oriented management and
evaluation capacity in the public sector by: strengthening the performance evaluation unit (PEU) in the
SPR; improving planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity in SEFIN and in the line secretariats
(beginning with Health, Education, Agriculture, SOPTRAVI and SERNA), with emphasis on sectoral
programming and identification of expenditure priorities; and supporting mechanisms to strengthen the
evaluation "community" in Honduras, especially within the Government, with links to the private sector and
broader civil society .
The CPME would be the executing agency for this component in collaboration with the SPR. The project
- 1 0 -



would fund technical assistance, training, studies, and equipment (computer hardware and software) in the
following subcomponents:
1) Strengthening of the performance evaluation unit. This subcomponent would support the strengthening
of the technical capacity of the performance evaluation unit (PEU) within the SPR to improve the planning,
monitoring and evaluation capacity, and provide a basis for priority setting, with special emphasis on
gender and poverty reduction, to guide resource allocation to operational programs, in the participating
secretariats, including their corresponding UPEGs.
2) Developing evaluation capacity in participating secretariats. This subcomponent would finance
(a) carrying out of a diagnosis of the evaluation capacity of each of the participating secretariats; and
(b) based on the findings of each diagnosis, the preparation of an action plan, acceptable to the
Association, for each participating secretariat.
3) Establishing communication and dissemination mechanisms. This subcomponent would enable the
CPME in collaboration with the PEU to carry out a communication and dissemination program to:
(a) promote the exchange of information among the staff within the participating secretariats and
representatives of the private sector and civil society with respect to the monitoring and evaluation of
the programs carried out by the secretariats;
(b) encourage public dissemination of the results of the evaluation concerning the performance of the
secretariats with respect to the annual programs; and
(c) foster public awareness and participation in the evaluation of public sector performance.
Project Component 5 - Public Procurement
Since 1996, the PSMSAC/PSMTAC operations have supported Government efforts aimed at introducing
legal, regulatory and institutional reforms necessary to invigorate and promote the effectiveness of the
public administration. To this end, among the activities financed under this credit, technical assistance has
been provided to encourage increased efficiency and transparency in the procurement of goods and services
by the public sector.
This component would support Government initiatives to strengthen state governance and to promote
transparency by providing technical support and cofinancing for the IDB-financed Efficiency and
Transparency of State Purchasing and Contracting Project in the areas of: procurement training
(component III of the IDB operation); and the development of a new national system for the procurement of
goods and services (component IV of the IDB operation). Additionally, financing would be provided for
consultancies geared to review and ultimately update the existing legal, regulatory and institutional
frameworks that have a bearing on public sector procurement practices. The CPME would be responsible
for managing this component, which would support:
1) Training in procurement procedures throughout participating secretariats;
2) Developing a new public procurement information system; and
-11 -



3) Strengthening of the national regulatory and institutionalframework governing public procurement,
acceptable to the Association, through the provision of technical assistance and training, including
strengthening of the normative unit for procurement and the Office of Administrative Probity.
Project Component 6 - Consolidating Regulatory Reforms
This component would continue to support the Government's efforts to create adequate legal frameworks
and consolidate regulatory entities as well as reduce the scope of State intervention in the provision of
public services. This component would be managed by SEFIN, assisted by the Consultative Commission
for Privatization (CCP), and comprise three subcomponents:
1) Strengthening of the CCP through the provision of legal, financial, and technical assistance for the
carrying out of:
(a) a program to strengthen CCP's technical capacity to manage the Government's privatization
process;
(b) a study of the ports sector to design a strategy to restructure the ports sector; including an
acceptable environmental assessment of the ports sector, and an environmental management plan;
(d) a study of the postal services sector to design a strategy to restructure the postal services sector;
and
(e) studies to support the institutional restructuring within the telecommunications sector.
2) Strengthening of regulatory institutions.
This subcomponent would strengthen the regulatory capacity of CONATEL, CNE and the Superintendency
of Concessions and Licenses (SCL) through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment
required to:
(a) improve the existing telecommunications regulatory framework and assist the regulator, train staff
and provide radio frequency spectrum management and monitoring systems for CONATEL;
(b) strengthen the National Energy Commission (CNE) and the SCL; and
(c ) strengthen the regulatory capacity of ANACI (within an integrated transport framework), when
established.
3) Consolidation of the system ofpublic service and infrastructure regulatory entities.
This subcomponent would include technical assistance to carry out a legal and technical review of the
regulatory entities (CONATEL, CNE and SCL) to consolidate the regulatory functions within a system
built on common principles and standardized procedures.
Project Component 7 -- Project Management
This component would strengthen the operational capacity of the project coordinating unit (PCU) in the
Executive Secretariat of the CPME by financing consultants, equipment and activities necessary to manage
implementation of the project in coordination with the other executing agencies and implementing entities.
- 12 -



.         Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
________________________    _ __ (US$M)  _Total  (US$M)  financing
1. Public Finance Management and   Public Financial    7.70       33.5      6.61       34.8
Internal Control                   Management
2. Reorganization of the Comptroller    Public Financial  2.70    11.7       2.33      12.3
General's Office (CGR)             Management
3. Human Resource Management       Other Public        2.40        10.4      2.06.     10.8
Sector
Management
4. Developing Performance Evaluation   Other Public    2.20        9.6       1.72       9.1
Capacity                           Sector
Management
5. Public Procurement              Other Public         1.50       6.5       1.20       6.3
Sector
Management
6. Consolidating Regulatory Reforms    Public Enterprise  5.00    21.7       4.00      21.1
Reform
7. Project Management              Institutional        1.50       6.5       1.08       5.7
Development
Total Project Costs                   23.00      100.0      19.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    23.00      100.0     19.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The ongoing institution-building and transformation of the state in Honduras is altering the way the public
sector adjusts and responds to unexpected events and routine responsibilities under the Government's
stewardship. Hurricane Mitch has underscored the inadequacy of the line secretariats' capacity to respond
to emergencies of this nature and scope. This has led to the development of special initiatives under the
direction of the President's Office to provide the appropriate accountability over donor programs and funds,
with special assistance from a tripartite commission headed by the SPR, SEFIN and SETCO (Technical
Secretariat for International Cooperation). Currently, the focus of IDA assistance is shifting away from
emergency funding to more customary sector lending programs-although the deteriorated state of
infrastructure and further debilitated capacity of line secretariats, including the loss of data, require
compensatory institutional arrangements to ensure adequate accountability and control. This points to a
compelling need to rebuild the capacity in the line secretariats, and to bring standardization and uniformity
to organizational relations, as expeditiously as possible. Much of the implementation of SIAFI, including
the proposed human resource system's integration with SIAFI, can be accomplished under the existing
Organic Budget Law. However, passage of the SIAFI Law would provide the optimal framework for
decentralizing the management of public expenditures to the line secretariats.
The project contemplates the restructuring of SEFIN, as well as related capacity-building and extensive
training of personnel. The performance evaluation unit (PEU) in the SPR would support the development
of planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity in the line secretariats, with emphasis on sectoral
programming and identification of expenditure priorities. The PEU would coordinate project support to
strengthen the UPEGs (planning and evaluation units) and the GAs (administrative management units), in
- 13 -



close coordination with the implementation of SIAFI and SINEG. Further restructuring would take place
in CGR in an effort to increase its institutional capacity and promote transparency.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project should help the Government meet the social and infrastructure needs of the general
population more efficiently and economically, and with more likelihood of assistance reaching those further
impoverished by Hurricane Mitch. Specifically, the project would build on achievements under the public
enterprise restructuring initiative in the PSMTAC by transferring structures, functions, and services that
can be better delivered more economically by the private sector. The Government would promote and
support development of a performance culture and participation of civil society in assessing performlance of
public sector programs. Project benefits are also expected to result from modernization of human resource
management systems, which are intended to further professionalize the public sector. The project would
create a public sector climate that would facilitate sound public sector financial management and
investment programming, especially in the social sectors, where Government capacity is severely strained.
Although the primary beneficiaries are govermment agencies, the project is expected to build transparency
and contribute to the fight against corruption, which would induce significant fiscal savings and facilitate a
stronger growth trajectory. These improvements would benefit the general population as well as bring
international credibility to the Government in its efforts to combat corruption and strengthen the
governance of the Honduran state.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Four years.
Project Implementation and Coordination:
As in the first stage of the PSMP, the Executive Secretariat of the Presidential Commission for the
Modernization of the State (CPME) would be responsible for overall project coordination. The day-to-day
management of the project would be the responsibility of the National Director, who heads the project
coordinating unit (PCU). The PCU, which depends directly on the Executive Secretariat of the CPME,
would be supported by a small staff, including a project coordinator, an accounting/financial administrator,
a procurement officer, a lawyer, information technology specialist, and a network of technical/coordination
units for each of the project components. The PCU would coordinate implementation of the project
components with the respective implementing entities and administer the general -accounts of the project.
The PCU would consolidate overall project finances and external audits of all implementing entities.
The CPME would directly manage five project components: Component I (Public Finance Management
and Internal Control), together with SEFIN, in the implementation of SIAFI in the line secretariats;
Component 3 (Human Resource Management), together with the SPR and DGSC; Component 4
(Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity), coordinating technical assistance to the UPEGs and the
GAs to strengthen planning and evaluation in the participating secretariats, in collaboration with the SPR
and other entities; Component 5 (Public Procurement); and Component 7 (Project Management).
SEFIN, assisted by the CCP, would manage Component 6 (Consolidating Regulatory Reforms); and CGR
would manage the activities under Component 2 (Reorganization of the CGR). The project unit within the
CCP would be led by a technical secretary nominated by the CCP and composed of two units: one to
coordinate the privatization efforts; the other, an administrative/financial unit. Procurement for the
implementation of this component would be the responsibility of the administrative/financial officer and
controlled by the technical secretary. The CGR would have a project unit composed of three staff: a unit
- 14 -



coordinator, a systems specialist, and a training specialist.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
The PCIJ, CCP and CGR would maintain separate subaccounts under the Special Account. Each of the
entities in charge of managing project resources will maintain separate project records and will report
periodically to the PCU on the use of those resources. Such records will be maintained to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of each project
activity. Executing entities will be staffed at all times with qualified financial and accounting
professionals. Adequate financial management arrangements for the project will be included in the
Operations Manual. PCU will prepare combined financial statements for the project as a whole. The
project accounts maintained by the PCU and the other executing entities will be audited periodically by
independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with International
Auditing Standards and the guidance provided in the "Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of
Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region" (the Guidelines)
and other guidance. The PCU and the CGR will submit to the Association a certified copy of the audit
reports no later than four months after the end of each year. The first audit report will cover from the
beginning of the project through December 31, 2000. Subsequent audit reports will be contracted before
the beginning of the year to be audited, and will encompass at least an interim visit (in addition to the final
visit of the period).
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
The CPME would monitor project execution through a set of performance indicators, supported by IDA
supervision missions. The CPME would coordinate preparation of annual work programs prior to each
calendar year. By December 31 each year, starting in 2000, the CPME would prepare and furnish to the
Association a plan, acceptable to the Association, describing the Project activities to be carried out in the
following calendar year; and thereafter implement the plan in accordance with its terms. Annual reviews of
the project will be carried out not later than September 30 of each year. A mid-term review would be
conducted by September 2002 to assess progress in meeting agreed targets and to identify additional
support as needed. Semi-annual progress reports would be presented to the Association no later than 30
days after the conclusion of each calendar semester, starting in 2001.
Cofinancing:
The first phase of the Bank's public sector reform effort was cofinanced by IDB. Component 5 (Public
Procurement) of the new operation would complement the Improving Efficiency and Transparency of
Public Procurement Project financed by IDB. In separate activities, bilateral resources have supported
institutional reforms in planning, information systems, and public information infrastructure; and bilateral
funding is expected to cofinance, on a parallel basis, and at a later date, the "mentoring program," under
Component 4 (Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The public sector reform program, which was launched within the framework of the 1995 PSMP and
supported by the PSMTAC and PSMSAC, has made substantial progress, but is not yet complete. For this
reason, agreement was reached to consolidate current gains in public enterprise reform, governmental
- 15 -



restructuring, employment rationalization, and implementation of the first phase of an integrated financial
management system, and to complement the reforms already underway by initiatives to address
transparency, accountability, and the development of a performance culture. This approach is also
reinforced by the social expectations in Honduras of deeper, broader reforms in the public sector with
tangible results.
Although the design of an alternative project was not considered, several issues regarding the content and
breadth of the proposed operation have been addressed. During the PCD concept review meeting,
discussion focused on the possibility of modifying or eliminating two components: social security reform
and privatization. It was decided that social security reform should not be included in this project, because
the institutional and policy reform issues could be more effectively handled through initiatives and projects
in the health and financial sectors. As for privatization, it was agreed that maintaining the momentum
gained in the PSMTAC and PSMSAC operations was important. Accordingly, it was decided that the
component would provide the necessary support to consolidate restructuring efforts and to support the
initial institutional development stage of regulatory entities.
A new project component, Component 5 - Public Procurement, was added at the formal request of the
Government to the Association, subsequent to the Consultative Group Meeting in Honduras in February
2000. The Government asked the Association to provide support to IDB's project Improving Efficiency
and Transparency of Public Procurement Project. Based on discussions both internally and with IDB, it
was agreed with the Government that this operation would support procurement training as well as
development of a national standardized procurement system by co-financing components III and IV of the
IDB-financed project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector issue           0              000;0Proiect         ( PSR) Ratingsf 
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Public sector reform, modernizing  PSM/SAC                           S             S
institutions, privatization of state
enterprises
Public sector reform, modernizing  PSM/TAC                           S              S
institutions, privat.of state enterprises
Infrastructure rehabilitation      Transport Sector Rehab.           S              S
Other development agencies
Public sector reform               IDB
(cofinances IDA's PSMSAC and
PSMTAC Projects)
Transparency in procurement        IDB
Information and evaluation system  UNDP
Planning and productivity          USAID
Census and national statistical systems  Sweden
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed credit incorporates the following lessons: Public sector experience in LAC has pointed to the
value of broad-based approaches to project design, such as that adopted in the proposed operation. In
complex public sector environments, such as Honduras, this approach facilitates the identification of major
issues and systemic distortions that need to be addressed before deep policy and institutional reforms can
occur. E,ssentially to design viable public sector reformn programs, a global understanding of public sector
structure, function, and characteristics is required. Economic and sector work and background studies
were conducted as part of the preparation of the PSMTAC and PSMSAC. The design of this new
operation is also based on OED's findings regarding the development of evaluation capacity and the
contribution of performance evaluation to furthering good governance. As a result, the project would apply
the diagnostic tool prepared by OED with respect to evaluation capacity options and prepare tailor-made
action plans for the participating secretariats.
Important privatization initiatives were a part of the PSMSAC and PSMTAC. There is a need to
consolidate the regulatory frameworks in order to ensure that private investments are safeguarded. There is
a consensus and commitment by the Government to develop the frameworks more fully.
One of the most important lessons learned is the need to foster a sense of teamwork between the
Government and the Association, as well as with other donors. This has proven to be an essential ingredient
to the success of any comprehensive public sector modernization program. The operation is structured
specifically around the partnership between the Government, the Association, and other donors to meet the
pressing social and economic needs of Honduras. The project has been designed with sufficient flexibility
to incorporate relevant findings resulting from the ongoing Public Expenditure Review (PER) and
Infrastructure Assessment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is fully committed to the reform of public administration, completing national
reconstruction in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, and further stimulating the privatization process by
developing complementary regulatory frameworks. The Government's commitment to transparency and
governance has become much more prominent than in the past, and these will be a major focus of the
proposed credit. Evidence of this commitment includes: approval of the regulatory framework for the
General Law of Public Administration (Decree No. 218-96) to facilitate institutional restructuring in
SEFIN and other secretariats (e.g., Education and Health) and strengthening of the UPEGs and GAs; and
agreement to establish the performance evaluation unit (PEU) in the SPR.
The Government's National Plan for Reconstruction and Transformation (PMRTN), presented to the
Consultative Group (CG) in Stockholm in May 1999, laid out a program of reforms that are compatible
with the objectives of the proposed credit. These objectives were further endorsed at a subsequent meeting
in Tegucigalpa in February 2000. In addition, the Government, with support from the UNDP, is
developing a National Information System (SINEG) to monitor and evaluate the PMRTN. A further
indication of the Government's commitment to the reform process was Congress' approval
on May 31, 2000 to establish a National Institute of Statistics and its commitment to carry out the 2000
National Census.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has developed an extensive knowledge base of cross-sectoral issues affecting public sector reform on
a global scale. Specifically, it has attained worldwide experience, and thus a comparative advantage in the
- 17 -



areas of state modernization, governance and transparency, public finance reform, and private participation
in the provision of services which can readily be transferred and tailored to the unique needs/circumstances
in Honduras. On a Regional basis, the proposed project has already benefited from a cross-fertilization of
experiences in Latin America as a whole and particularly, other Central American countries. In the area of
integrated financial management in particular, project preparation has benefited from the experience of
project teams working on similar and highly successful projects in Guatemala and other Central American
countries. The value added of IDA's global comparative advantage in these areas is further enhanced by
the fact that the project team was present during the initial design stage of the Government's PSMP, and
contributed to the same, and has since then fostered a partnership through the implementation of the Public
Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits (2816-HO and 2814-HO,
respectively). The resulting accumulated country-specific experience and partnerships attained since the
Project's start further promote it prospects for success.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Project Costs: Total project costs are estimated at US$23 million equivalent, of which US$19 million
equivalent would be financed by the Association; and US$4 million equivalent would be financed by
the Borrower.
Project Benefits: Important technical, managerial, personnel, and procedural benefits produced by the
project would have a positive impact on the country's fiscal health. Implementation of SIAFI
throughout the central government and decentralized institutions will allow complete transparency in
the recording and reporting of the Government's economic activities and will establish a framework to
ensure an accountability regime, while strengthening the external control system. Today,
inefficiencies arise from weak structures in audit institutions. Building adequate technical and
managerial capacity within SEFIN and restructuring of CGR are key elements in the Government's
approach. Improved audit standards and the overall institutionalization of internal controls within the
Executive would ensure rigorous management of fiscal resources.
Another substantial benefit from the project is expected to occur in the public sector workforce. The
project's proposed implementation of centralized norms and decentralized operations, and the
consolidation of the ongoing Human Resources Information System is expected to yield important
fiscal savings. By having a complete and accurate registry of public employees, the project would be
able to help rationalize human resources needs and deployment. This quality reallocation is expected to
happen, at different degrees, in several administrative units across secretariats.
- 18 -



The development of performance evaluation capacity should lead to improved budget analytical
techniques and use of evaluation findings. The expected result would be better sectoral programming
and priority-setting in public expenditures. Better distribution of scarce public funds would minimize
inefficiently allocated resources and increase accountability of actual expenditures, thus allowing the
Treasury to attain more efficient cash flow management.
Strengthening regulatory authorities to oversee private sector participation in the provision of public
services will consolidate the savings already gained in the State's transfer of public enterprises to the
private sector. Of utmost strategic importance for fiscal savings, the component of public procurement
will increase transparency and is expected to minimize deficiencies of the transactions in public sector
purchasing.
3. Technical:
The activities to be undertaken under the proposed project are considered feasible based on the technical
advances made to date in implementing the Government's PSMP under the PSMSAC/PSMTAC.
Moreover, the experience gained in implementing these credits provided the proposed project with: (a) a
seasoned PCU, experienced in supervising consultants in the areas contemplated by the proposed project,
procurement activities, and the oversight and coordination of various reform components; (b) a fully
operating Consultative Commission for Privatization that obtained valuable experience in the area of
privatization processes and legal and regulatory reforms in the telecommunications, electrical distribution,
and civil aviation sectors; (c) approval in 1996 of the General Public Administration Law, which allowed
for an ambitious institutional restructuring and decentralization efforts throughout the public sector and
provided the framework for the civil service reforms which have been undertaken; (d) the implementation of
the first stage of the integrated financial management system in budget, treasury, accounting, and public
credit; and (e) a draft Integrated Financial Management System Law.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The three executing agencies are the Executive Secretariat of the CPME, SEFIN and the CGR. The
Executive Secretariat of the CPME would be responsible for overall project coordination and through its
PCU would manage the bulk of the project in coordination with SEFIN and the CGR. The CPME would
manage Components 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7 in collaboration with various implementing entities; SEFIN, assisted
by the CCP, would manage Component 6; and CGR would manage Component 2.
b. Project management:
The PCU of the CPME has gained significant expertise in the management and administration of the
PSMAC and PSMTAC. The PCU has a trained staff with substantial experience in the supervision of
consultants, procurement activities, and the oversight and coordination of various reform components, and
is prepared to begin implementation of the new credit. In assisting SEFIN to carry out the privatization
efforts in the first stage of the PSMP, the CCP has effectively demonstrated its capacity for project
management. While this base of experienced public sector institutions and leaders provide valuable
support for the new executing agency, CGR would have its own project management team and require
special assistance from both the Association and the Borrower.
5. Social:
N/A
- 19 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: C (Not Required)
No adverse environmental impact is anticipated as a result of the project activities related to restructuring
of the telecommunications, ports and postal sectors. In the ports sector the assistance would concentrate on
the development of a strategy to restructure the sector, including the preparation of an environmental
assessment. LCSES would be requested to participate in reviewing the terms of reference for the related
assessment.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries, including a number of government agencies and the CGR, participated fully in
the design of the proposed project. The line secretariats, particularly the administrative management and
the planning and evaluation units, contributed to the design of the plan and activities to be carried out in the
five participating secretariats.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project has been designed in cooperation with umbrella civil organizations, particularly FONAC (Foro
Nacional de Convergencia) and ASONOG (Asociacion de Organismos No Gubermentales), and with other
financiers, including IDB, UNDP, USAID and SIDA.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project builds on the reforn achievements under the ongoing PSMTAC and PSMSAC. The
important legal and institutional reforms being introduced under these operations have helped to create an
environment favorable to sustaining the gains expected under the project and expanding the scope of public
sector economic and financial management reforms. Weak institutional capacity in the public sector is a
major risk, especially in line secretariats. For that reason, institution-building, including extensive training,
is a major feature of the project and should ultimately offset this risk.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
I.(a) Institutional capacity within SEFIN  M         A program of institutional strengthening
to implement the intended reforms not                measures based on institutional capacity
developed.                                           assessment and extensive training.
l.(b) Despite restructuring of SEFIN,      M         Prepare operational and technical manuals and
SIAFI not adequately deployed in the line            provide training directed to full integration of
secretariats.                                        SIAFI both in SEFIN and in the line
secretariats.
2. Restructuring of CGR and creation of     S        Joint efforts with international donors to expose
public auditing environment to prevent               government, public sector entities, and civil
and combat corruption resisted by special            society to the importance of transparency and
interests.                                           accountability in the management and control of
public resources.
- 20 -



3. Streamlining the public sector            S        Systems applications and institutional
workforce in SEFIN, DGSC, and line                    assessments to provide basis for further
secretariats undermined by political                  rationalization of the public sector personnel
considerations and special interests.                 complement in coordination with the
implementation of the HR management system
and SIAFI, and adequate planning and strategic
programming.
4. Inability to attract or maintain good    M          Building ownership by sector ministers to ensure
quality staff in participating secretariats            qualified staff appointed and appropriate
due to weak human resources and lack of               incentives established, plus extensive and
commitment.                                            continuous training.
5. Staff throughout participating agencies  M         Comprehensive training program including
do not apply training and technology                   operational procedures; on-the-job training;
received to carry out purchasing and                  workshops and seminars for the interchange of
contracting procedures in an appropriate              experiences between participating entities; and
manner.                                                educating civil servants in benefits of employing
standard practices and utilizing public
procurement information system.
6. The regulatory entities are ineffective  M         Successful privatization efforts provide
due to entrenched vested interests                    favorable environment for Congressional
support to increase autonomy of regulators.
And increased competition among operators will
reduce risk of regulatory capture.
From Components to Outputs
1. Inadequate commitment and technical      M         Active support at highest levels of Government.
capacity in government agencies to                    Intersectoral coordination and capacity building
implement and sustain SIAFI.                          mechanisms, extensive training of counterparts,
and development of internal and public
communications program.
2. Resistance to the reforms prescribed      S         Cohesive plan to communicate purpose of
for the CGR by other government                        reforms through workshops with officials of the
agencies and from within the agency                   CGR and counterparts in public entities.
itself.
3. Weak leadership and poor                  S        The heads of the Secretariats of the Presidency
coordination limit improvements in                    and Finance have agreed to jointly address this
management and control of human                       risk.
resources.
4. Planning and evaluation is not a         M          Strengthening technical assistance provided by
priority in the participating secretariats.           the central Government and collaborating with
bilateral and multilateral agencies supporting
projects in the respective sectors.
- 21 -



5. Govermnent commitment to strengthen      M          Concerted efforts by the Government and
state governance and to promote                        Association to highlight the need to improve the
transparency of public purchasing and                  efficiency and transparency of public
contracting practices not realized.                    procurement.
6. Inadequate quality of preparatory and    N          Intensive supervision of the quality of the
other technical outputs                               technical assistance.
Overall Risk Rating                         M          Overall rating is modest, but substantial in four
instances.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a. Operational Manual has been approved by the Association.
b. Financial management system, acceptable to the Association, has been established in CPME.
c. Financial management system, acceptable to the Association, has been established in CGR.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a. Condition of disbursement: Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
CGR, and issuance of legal opinion, acceptable to the Association, concerning validity and enforceability of
said Agreement; as conditions of disbursement of the CGR component.
b. Condition of disbursement: Establishment of ANACI as the new regulatory agency for the sector; as a
condition of disbursement before assistance can be provided to the ANACI.
c. Dated covenant: (i) Carrying out of study of the ports sector to design a strategy to restructure the
ports sector, including carrying out of an environmental assessment to assess the potential environmental
impact of any participation of the private sector in the ports sector, not later than 18 months after
effectiveness; (ii) preparation of an environmental management plan, acceptable to the Association, to
mitigate any negative environmental impact identified in the assessment, not later than 45 days after
completion of the study; and (iii) thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, said plan in accordance
with its terms.
H. Readiness for Implementation
]I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
c
/A  . .artin DelC  po           mEesto May                            Donna Dowsett-Coirolo   (
v  'Teagdeader   K_z                    Sector Manager/Director      J         Country Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Hierarchy of Objectvs"           Indiiors            Mo oring &EEvaluation:   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To modernize the state and    Administrative reform   Annual reports of CPME,    Government capacity to set
improve governance and     component of Government's  SPR, SEFIN, CCP, CGR and  and sustain economic and
transparency in order to   PSMP completed; economic  participating secretariats.  social policy priorities.
improve implementation of   and financial management
development policies, projects capabilities in SEFIN and key                     Government commitment to
and service delivery, including line secretariats strengthened;                  transparency and
increased private sector   integrated financial                                  accountability.
participation, and to make    management system
development programs       implemented; and regulatory
effective to combat poverty on reforms consolidated.
a sustainable basis.
Project Development        Outcome i Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve transparency and  Increased transparency and   Reports by SEFIN       Congress approves SIAFI law
accountability in the use and  accountability in the use of                      and Government maintains
allocation of public resources; public resources.                                commitment to implement
develop budgetary planning                                                       SIAFI.
and evaluation capacity in key
government agencies; promote Standards and procedures for Reports by CGR         Congress approves new
institutional restructuring  new types of audits in the new                      legislation regarding CGR.
within the                 CGR legislation implemented.
telecommunications, ports and
postal services sectors; and                          Reports by CPME and DGSC  Government commits to
strengthen the technical   Rationalization of public                             modernizing the public sector
capacity of the regulatory  sector employment, improved                          workforce.
entities.                  control of human resources,
and application of modern
human resource policies.
-24 -



Improved sectoral         Reports by CPME and SPR   Government recognizes
programming and priority                             contribution of monitoring
setting of public expenditures.                      and evaluation to furthering
good governance.
Increased efficiency and  Reports by CPME            Government continues its
transparency in the                                  commitment to strengthen
procurement of goods and                             state governance and to
services by the public sector                        promote transparency of
public sector purchasing and
contracting practices
Improved quality, coverage   Reports by CCP          Government creates favorable
and increased efficiency in the                      environment to foster
delivery of public services                          development of private sector
initiatives.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. SEFIN restructured with    More accurate, complete and  IDA supervision reports  Institutional strengthening
fully functioning offices of    opportune fiscal accounts, and                  and training in SEFIN leads to
budget, treasury, public credit increased access/voice by                       improved capacity to develop
and accounting.           interested parties.        Reports of SEFIN           economic and financial
management techniques and
performance measures.
Integrated financial      Operational Manuals for                               SEFIN restructured to fully
management system         implementation of SLIFI                               implement SIAFI and
functioning in SEFIN and all prepared by May 2001.                              subsequently integrate system
line secretariats.                                                             in all line secretariats.
Implementation of SIAFI in
SEFN and initiation of
system integration in two
secretariats (health/education)
by Sept. 2001, and in all by
Sept. 2002.
Development of performance
indicators on impact of SIAFI
by Sept. 2002.
Communications strategy and
related products developed by
Mar. 2001.
-25 -



2. A functioning strong,   Acceptance by public entities  IDA supervision reports  CGR is administratively and
capable, and fully independent of advisory role of the CGR.                      technically reorganized and
supreme audit institution                             Ad hoc reports of CGR      issues new standards and
(CGR): to monitor the      Number of public entities                             procedures to improve
performance of the public    evaluated/monitored by the                          auditing of public resources.
sector and other branches of  CGR in a given period.
government based on
accountability, transparency,
legal and ethical criteria; and
to serve as a center of
excellence, preventive control
and advisor to other public
entities on financial and
administrative matters.
The elements for establishing  Number of internal auditing                       Acceptance by CGR and
a central coordinating     reports analyzed, with relevant                       SEFIN of the central
performance internal audit   comments transmitted to the                         coordinating performance
unit reporting to the President President                                        internal audit unit.
exist.
3. Streamlining of the public  The integration of human  IDA supervision reports  Reduced public sector payroll
sector workforce for greater  resource information system   Reports by CPME and DGSC  expenditures and greater
efficiency and effectiveness   with SIAFI and with key core                      control over HR system
achieved.                  secretariats.                                         applications.
-26 -



4. Performance evaluation unit PEU coordinating         IDA supervision reports     Government develops
(PEU) in SPR functioning.    development of evaluation                              planning and evaluation tools
capacity in participating                               in the participating
secretariats.                                          secretariats.
Planning, monitoring and   Diagnosis of evaluation     Reports by CPME and SPR
evaluation capacity in     capacities in each of the                               Qualified staff in the
participating secretariats  participating secretariats                              participating secretariats apply
developed.                 completed by Feb. 2001.                                 the training and technical
assistance provided by the
Quality of critical performance Action plans for each of the   Reports of participating  central government with the
indicators measuring service  participating secretariats  secretariats: inter alia, Health, full support of sectoral
delivery in participating  completed by March 2001 --  Education, Agriculture,     ministers.
secretariats improved.      including types and depth of  SOPTRAVI, SERNA.
training.
Mentoring program
functioning in the
participating secretariats by
April 2001.
Performance indicators for the
annual operational programs
(POAs) in each participating
secretariat prepared by June
each year, beginning in 2001.
Sectoral performance
evaluation framework re: roles
of agencies in planning,
conduct, quality, reporting and
use of performance findings.
Evaluation forum/network
among evaluation staff,
private sector & civil society
established by Sept. 2001
- 27 -



5. Civil servants involved in  Improved efficiency in the    IDA supervision reports  Qualified staff throughout
the procurement process    procurement of goods and                              participating agencies apply
throughout participating   services                                              training and technology
secretariats adequately trained                                                  received to carry out
in operational procedures                                                        purchasing and contracting
procedures.
Public procurement database  Public procurement       Reports by CPME
& information system      information system
implemented                established and functioning                           Development of appropriate
regulatory and institutional
National regulatory and                               Copies of regulations/laws    frameworks applied to
institutional frameworks                                                         promote transparent, uniform,
related to public sector                                                         and standard procurement
purchasing and contracting                                                       practices throughout the
strengthened                                                                     public sector.
6. CCP strengthened        Studies on ports and postal   IDA supervision reports  CCP and regulatory agencies
services sectors completed.                           have qualified staff and
Reports by CCP             adequate financial resources
Regulatory institutions    Quantity and quality of staff in
strengthened               CONATEL, CNE, SCL and
CAA sufficient, and capable
of enforcing regulations
Public service and         -Telecommunications:
infrastructure regulatory  Urban and rural telephone
entities consolidated     lines per hundred inhabitants
improved.
Time to repair faults
improved.
-Electricity:
Urban and rural electricity
subscribers increased.
Time of service interruption
reduced.
-Civil Aviation:
Number of operations
increased.
Terminals' square footage per
passenger improved.
- 28 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Obectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Public Finance         US$6.61 million            Semi-annual project reports of Timely counterpart funding
Management and Internal                              CPME (all components)
Control                                                                         Adequate institutional and
IDA supervision reports   budget support for SIAFI
Institutional strengthening                          (all components)
Adequate management and
Strategic implementation of                          Plus reports from SEFIN    maintenance of all SIAFI and
SIAFI                                                                           related systems.
Management and staff of line
secretariats institutionalize
and sustain changes generated
by SIAFI;
2. Reorganization of the   US$2.33 million           Plus CGR reports           Commitment by CGR
Comptroller General's                                                           management and concemed
Office (CGR)                                                                    agencies to carry out and
sustain the restructuring
Institutional strengthening                                                     program.
Promotion of social
comptrollership and
decentralization
Training program
Provision of equipment and
information network
3. Human Resources        US$2.06 million            Plus reports of CPME and    Effective restructuring of the
Management                                           DGSC                       designated key agencies such
that deconcentration efforts
Developing a modem system                                                       occur smoothly and human
of human resource                                                               resource management systems
management and control                                                          provide the necessary control
across the public sector.                                                       to rationalize personnel
complements
- 29 -



4. Developing             US$1.72 million           Plus reports of SPR and    SPR and SEFIN commit to
Performance Evaluation                              participating secretariats: inter strengthening UPEGs and
Capacity                                            alia, Health, Education,   GAs in five participating
Agriculture, SOPTRAVI,    secretariats; and coordinate
Strengthening of performance                        SERNA.                     closely with bilateral and
evaluation unit (PEU)                                                          multilateral agencies.
Developing evaluation                                                          Participating secretariats make
capacity in participating                                                      planning and evaluation a
secretariats                                                                   high priority.
Establishing communication
and dissemination
mechanisms
5. Public Procurement     US$1.20 million           Plus reports by CPME       Continued Government
commitment to strengthen
Training program                                                               state governance and to
promote transparency of
Public procurement                                                             public purchasing and
information system                                                             contracting practices
Strengthening regulatory
framework
6. Consolidating          US$4.00 million           Plus reports by CCP        Adequate quality of
Regulatory Reforms                                                             preparatory and other
IDA supervision reports   technical outputs
Strengthening of the CCP
Strengthening of regulatory
institutions
Consolidation of public
service and infrastructure
regulatory entities
7. Project Management    US$1.08 million            Reports by CPME
- 30 -



Annex 2: Project Description
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$7.70 million
Public Finance Management and Internal Control
The Government is implementing a broad strategy to reform and improve financial management throughout
the public sector. To continue with this effort would require building adequate technical and managerial
capacity within SEFIN to prepare designated secretariats and decentralized entities for successful
implementation. This will be especially important for the secretariats of education and health, which
comprise the majority of personnel in the public sector and require strong financial management and
control. Moreover, SEFIN will require strengthening of its capacity for economic management. This
component, which the CPME would manage in collaboration with SEFIN, comprises two subcomponents
essential to meet these needs:
1) Strengthening of SEFIN institutionally to carry out its core functions successfully. This
subcomponent supports: (a) design of legal framework for SIAFI with appropriate norms and internal
regulations; (b) completion of the organizational restructuring of SEFIN; (c) development of the technical
ability to formulate coordinate, execute and evaluate policies related to public finances and the general
budget concerning income and expenditures in line with strategies defined by the Office of the President;
and accordingly, establishment of a basis for setting priorities for public expenditures, giving special
emphasis to gender and poverty reduction; (d) preparation of manuals containing norms, systems
configurations, methods and procedures for core areas of SEFIN; (e) development of agency-wide
performance measures; (f) developing an appropriate training plan and program to meet knowledge and
skill gaps among technical and professional personnel; (g) carrying out of a communications program to
inform SEFIN's staff and the public regarding the benefits of SIAFI; and (h) strengthening the Planning and
Evaluation Unit (UPEG) through specialized training in the analysis and design of policies and programs
based on budget and public investment policy and official directives of the Office of the President.
2) Strategic implementation of SL4FI across the public sector, including the central government and the
decentralized administration. This subcomponent consolidates progress made under the PSMTAC in
supporting the development of: a comprehensive and integrated finance information system for the whole
public sector; accuracy and transparency in the recording and reporting of the economic activities of the
Government; and a framework for internal control in the public sector to ensure an accountability regime,
while building the foundation of a sound external control system. This subcomponent would support:
a) Completion of the development of SIAFI's management tools, including: the adaptation of the
accounting subsystem to incorporate networth accounts and the management of non-financial assets; the
design of a subsystem to reconcile bank accounts in which public funds are deposited; the design of a
detailed plan of accounts to permit administrative decentralization of budget execution; the design of
payroll and treasury subsystems; and the integration of SIAFI's accounting, budget, debt management,
payroll and treasury subsystems; (b) establishment and installation of SIAFI in all secretariats,
participating semi-autonomous institutions and participating autonomous institutions, including the
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor; and (c) design and implementation of a training
program with respect to the installation and use of SIAFI within the secretariats, participating
semi-autonmous institutions and participating autonomous institutions.
- 31 -



Project Component 2 - US$2.70 million
Reorganization of the Comptroller General's Office (CGR)
This component builds on two developments: (a) the experience of the World Bank's region-wide initiative
to support the strengthening and modernization of the supreme audit institutions (SAI) of member
countries as part of an overall strategy to promote transparency and accountability in the public sector and
Government affairs; and (b) the technical assistance to CGR provided by USAID in Honduras and El
Salvador, the European Union, and the Government of Spain. In the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, a new
dimension and focus for external control systems is needed. Consequently, the organization of SAI will
now be primarily aimed at ensuring social controls and reporting on the economy, efficiency and
effectiveness of government and public sector operations, with special emphasis on the utilization of all
funds channeled to the reconstruction process (national, international, and bilateral agreements with foreign
donors).
This component would support the development of a strong, capable and independent SAI which will
monitor the perfornance of the public sector and other branches of Government in order to ascertain that
they operate according to accountability, transparency, legal and ethical criteria; and serve these
Government entities as a center of financial and administrative advise for the prevention of fraud, waste
and abuse in government and the improvement of public sector activities. CGR would be the executing
agency for this component which comprises four subcomponents:
1) Institutional strengthening of the CGR, to carry out the administrative and technical reorganization of
the CGR, including preparation of audit standards and procedures
2) Promotion of the social controllership by carrying out a program to promote the participation of civil
society in the external control process carried out by the CGR.
3) Designing and implementation of a comprehensive training program for CGR's staff in public
financial management, internal and external control, and auditing and evaluation of entities which manage
public resources.
4) Establishment of an information network within SIAFI to enable the CGR to obtain information
concerning the accounting practices, financial transactions and reporting requirements of the secretariats,
semi-autonomous institutions and autonomous institutions.
Assistance under the project would be aimed specifically at: (a) reorganizing the CGR's administrative and
technical organization; (b) preparing standards and procedures for CGR's to carry out the different types of
audits and for the evaluation of national programs, both routine and centered on the reconstruction
program; (c) developing the basic elements for eventual institutionalization of the internal control system
within the Executive; (d) decentralization of the control function; (e) promoting the social controllership
through popular participation; (f) providing the CGR with basic computer, transport and technical
equipment; (g) installing an information network within SIAFI that will permit CGR to have direct access
to accounting and financial transactions and reporting from the centralUdecentralized administration; and (h)
designing and conducting a comprehensive Training Program in public financial management, control,
audit and evaluation to be offered to CGR staff and selected officers from the central administration and
decentralized entities, including municipalities.
- 32 -



Project Component 3 - USS 2.40 million
Human Resource Management
With support of the PSMSAC and PSMTAC, the Government has made significant progress in this area,
both on the policy side of human resources reform as well as on the management side. On the policy side,
since January 1994 the number of staff positions in the central government and decentralized institutions
(excluding teachers, medical doctors, paramedics, police and defense), was reduced from a combined
46,323 to 37,911, or an overall reduction of 18 percent. This is well above the 10 percent requirement set
out in the legislative decree of October 1994 and agreed under the PSMSAC. Most of these posts have
been cancelled administratively and eliminated from the budget. Monitoring of employment is satisfactory
but weakest for the decentralized institutions, where Government continues to take steps to improve-the
timeliness and completeness of the data.
A new human resource management system for the civil service was designed and implementation has
begun with post classification and grading structure. The first phase of classification was put into effect
with the July 1999 salary increases. According to government figures, as a result of this initiative the
compression ratio of civil service salaries has gone from about 6:1 in December 1998, to 10: 1, thereby
already meeting the performance indicator for decompression in the PSMSAC action plan. While making
an important improvement generally in salaries of top technical and professional staff, the fiscal impact of
this reform was minimal, as the number of persons involved were relatively small (this is due to the existing
bottom-heavy structure of the civil service).        4
Other modules of the human resource management system include institutional restructuring and
strengthening of the DGSC, recruitment policies, performance evaluation, and training. The implementation
slrategy of the system also contemplates technical assistance to the health sector to help the secretariat
introduce these reforms, specifically in identifying all nurse and nurse aide posts, and in constructing
functional charts of health offices and hospitals.
Triggered by the need to reduce the size of the central government wage bill - which this year is estimated
to reach 9.3 percent of GDP - a salary and employment policy for the central government will be put into
effect in the second semester of 2000. The fundamental elements of the policy are being defined and a draft
document has been prepared. Elements include further employment rationalization, criteria for future
general salary increases including conditions for calculating salaries of health workers, a more aggressive
miechanism of employment census and post audits, and either a new civil service law or amendments to the
existing one. The Government has requested that the proposed operation provide technical assistance to
help implement this policy.
On the management side, after agreement was reached between the DGSC and SEFIN regarding the
payroll data, a new human resources database is operating in both institutions. The conceptual design for
turning the database into a full-fledged human resource management tool (SIARH) for operation within the
secretariats and linked with SIAFI is being developed. What is needed now is to develop the software for
the various modules of the System, and introduce the management tool in main agencies of the Government.
E,mployment censuses were carried out in SEP and SSP and post audits were carried out in SEFIN, SSP
and Secretariat of Agriculture; however, so far there is no effective mechanism to transform these one-time
checks into a permanent updating and correcting of staff lists. It is hoped that once the SIARH is
operational, a permanent system of staff audits will exist and feed into the SIARHI.
- 33 -



With regard to the teachers regime, while the SEP had committed to introducing a new human resource
management tool under the Education Reform Project, this did not materialize at the end. However, under
the PSMTAC a conceptual design for the system was carried out and as a starting point the Government is
planning to put into effect as soon as possible a payroll system for teachers. In terms of the decentralized
institutions, since the beginning of the PSMSAC/TAC, monitoring of employment figures has improved
considerably, and based on reviews of the various management systems involved, the Government will
introduce an informational human resource management tool in some main institutions on a pilot basis.
In terms of improving human resources management for the civil service, although a comprehensive system
has been designed and the implementation phase has begun in the areas of classification of posts and
remuneration system, the implementation of this reform constitutes a major challenge for the Goveriinent
and will require strong coordination among SEFIN, DGSC and the line secretariats.
This component is to support the Government's efforts to improve the policy and management of human
resources in the public sector. Given the complexity of implementing reforms in this area, this component
would be managed by the CPME in collaboration with the SPR and DGSC, as well as the secretariats.
This component would provide technical assistance and training in two subcomponents per the following:
1) Strengthening human resource policy formulation and implementation This subcomponent supports
activities to help the Government implement its new wage policy for the central government, including
technical assistance for (a) further employment rationalization, (b) improved treatment of teachers' regime
consistent with the civil service system, and (c) development of amendments to the civil service law. This
would include measures to rationalize and make more harmonous the various employment and salary
regimes that exist currently in the public sector, including the Civil Service Law, the so-called Neighboring
Regimes (medical doctors, nurses and paramedics, non-military police, administrative staff of schools,
diplomatic and consular staff, and other permanent staff excluded from the Civil Service Regime), teachers,
and public employees under the labor code. In addition, the project would support the strengthening of the
central human resource management office, DGSC.
2) Improving the management of human resources. This subcomponent supports the following activities:
(a) implementation of the human resources management policy system for the civil service, (b) introduction
of the integrated human resource management system (SIARH) in all Secretariats and main agencies,
which will be linked with SIAFI through the payroll, (c) development and implementation of a payroll
module for the central Government within SIAFI, which will include the civil service and neighboring
regimes, as well as teachers, and (d) training. Strengthening of the technical capabilities of the human
resource management offices of the Secretariats will be complemented with resources from Component 4
(see below).
Project Component 4 - US$2.20 million
Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity
The component would support the Government's efforts to develop performance-oriented management and
evaluation capacity in the public sector. The goal is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of resource
allocation; develop a results-based approach to line management and service delivery; and foster
accountability through better management and screening of public expenditures. The focus is on greater
use of goal setting, analytical techniques in budget and administrative decision-making, and statistical and
accounting information systems, as well as closer engagement of civil society in evaluating public sector
performance.
- 34 -



Given that the Government has developed an information system (SINEG) to monitor policies, programs,
projects and activities related to implementation of the Master Plan for Reconstruction and Development
(PMRTN), and created planning and evaluation units (UPEGs) and administrative units (GAs) per Reform
of the General Public Administration Law (Legislative Decree No. 218-96), the Government has agreed to
set up a performance evaluation unit (PEU) in the SPR.
The project would support the PEU, whose function would be to improve the planning, monitoring and
evaluation capacity in the line secretariats, with emphasis on sectoral programming and identification of
expenditure priorities. The PEU would also establish mechanisms to strengthen the evaluation
'community" in Honduras, especially within the Government, with links to the private sector and broader
civil society, and promote public awareness and participation in assessing the performance of the puiblic
sector.
Ihe PEU would coordinate closely with government agencies, including SEFIN, SETCO, the National
Institute of Statistics and the participating secretariats, as well as with government programs--e.g., the
PRSP (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper), especially regarding outcome monitoring and impact
evaluation, and the above-mentioned SINEG concerning the monitoring and evaluation of the PMRTN.
T he project would focus on institution building in the public sector by developing sound planning,
monitoring and evaluation capacity in line secretariats, beginning with those that represent a significant
share of the national budget, namely Health, Education, Agriculture, SOPTRAVI and SERNA. Support to
the participating secretariats would be based on the findings of a diagnosis of evaluation capacity, with
specific recommendations regarding an action plan for each secretariat. The diagnosis would be
coordinated by the PEU. Strengthening of these secretariats would provide a useful basis for the
performance budgeting aspect of a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF), if the government
decides to implement one.
The institutional diagnosis would follow the steps of an OED-developed guide to assist in the identification
of evaluation capacity development (ECD) options, with the action plans developed and tailored to each of
the participating secretariats. The diagnosis would include a review of the budget process in each of the
secretariats, including the functions of the planning (UPEGs) and administrative (GAs) units and of related
units (especially statistics units), and of the uses made of information/analysis--i.e., for purposes of
management, planning, resource allocation and accountability.
Each action plan would include the types and depth of training to be provided, technical assistance needs,
and an assessment of the equipment (hardware and software) required. Depending on the strengths,
weaknesses and opportunities facing each secretariat, and the depth of long-term donor support, each action
plan would include "ministry mentoring" in order to establish and demonstrate to others a range of
good-practice approaches concerning performance evaluation.
The project would finance the strengthening of the UPEGs, including the statistical units, and the GAs in
the participating secretariats. The assistance would be provided in close collaboration with SEFIN and
implementation of SIAFI, as well as with UNAT and the requirements of the SINEG. The project would
support the application of measurement methodologies, and the development of performance indicators for
sectors, programs and projects. It would also provide a basis for priority setting, with special emphasis on
gender and poverty reduction, to guide resource allocation to operational programs in the participating
secretariats. The project would ensure that donor financing is fully taken into account in the budget
planning and evaluation process at the sectoral level.
- 35 -



The PEU would help to identify and share good practice approaches to the planning, conduct, quality, use
and reporting of perfornance evaluation findings; and to clarify responsibilities of key actors within
Government. The unit would facilitate and support the "ministry mentoring" programs in collaboration
with donor agencies. The unit would support the strengthening of the evaluation community, especially
within the Government, by establishing forums/networks, holding regular meetings and annual conferences
to share good practice evaluations, and fostering participation by the private sector, universities, think
tanks, and the broader civil society.
The CPME would be the executing agency for this component in collaboration with the PEU, and the
project would fund technical assistance, studies, training and equipment (computer hardware and software)
in the following subcomponents:
1) Strengthening of the performance evaluation unit: This subcomponent would strengthen the technical
capacity of the PEU in the SPR through support of consultants, training and provision of equipment. The
project would support consultancies to aid the PEU in carrying out consultation workshops in collaboration
with SEFIN and UNAT with the representatives of the UPEGs and GAs in the participating secretariats;
conducting an OED-designed diagnosis of evaluation capacity in the secretariats; and designing tailor-made
action plans for developing evaluation capacity in each of the participating secretariats through workshops
with each of the secretariats. Consultancies would also assist the PEU in developing a sectoral
performance evaluation framework; developing performance indicators and instruments for monitoring
results; and coordinating/supporting the "mentoring" program of participating secretariats with the
international donor community.
2) Developing evaluation capacity in participating secretariats: Based on the diagnoses of the
secretariats, action plans, satisfactory to the Association, would be designed to develop and strengthen
sectoral planning, monitoring and evaluation in each of the participating secretariats. This sub-component
would strengthen each of the secretariats by providing equipment (computer hardware and software),
training and consultancies. Financing of consultants to assist in the "mentoring" program established in
each of the secretariats would be coordinated, as appropriate, with support provided by donor agencies at
the sectoral level in the areas of programming and evaluation.
3) Establishing communication and dissemination mechanisms: This subcomponent would enable the
CPME in collaboration with PEU to carry out a program to foster communication and collaboration among
workers in the evaluation community, including a forum/network to promote meetings and exchanges
among staff in the secretariats with representatives in the private sector and civil society; promote the
public dissemination of evaluation findings of sectoral performance in order to provide feedback to
secretariats and relevant data for the Government's intemal oversight agencies; and to foster public
awareness and participation in the evaluation of public sector performance. Financing would include
support for equipment and materials, periodic workshops and an annual conference for the forum/network
of evaluators, publications, and training of representatives from civil society.
Project Component 5 - US$1.50 million
Public Procurement
Since 1996, the PSMSAC/PSMTAC operations have supported Government efforts aimed at introducing
legal, regulatory and institutional reforms necessary to invigorate and promote the effectiveness of the
public administration. To this end, among the activities financed under this credit, technical assistance has
been provided to encourage increased efficiency and transparency in the procurement of goods and services
by the Public Sector via the following consultancies: (a) review of the Draft Reforms to the State
- 36 -



Contracting Law and Other Normative Instruments Related to the Government's Purchasing and
Contracting System 17/09/96) (b) Support to the Office of Administrative Probity in the Preparation and
Implementation of a Technical and. Financial Cooperation Program(l /09/97); (c) review of the Norms and
Procedures Regarding the Contracting of International Financial Organizations and Potential for
H[armonizing same with National Legislation(3/12/97); and (d) drafting of Reforms to the Law Against the
Illicit Enrichment of Public Servants and Issuance of Necessary Regulations (1/02/99).
I'his component would build on the advances made to date toward improving the efficiency and
transparency of public sector purchasing and contracting practices. It is furthermore fully commensurate
with the Government's Master Plan for National Reconstruction and Transformation which underscores the
importance of' ensuring that the practice of public administration be consonant with the principles of
efficiency and transparency and contemplates amongst the initiatives to be addressed, the design of a
program to strengthen and modernize the Nation's state procurement system-- (Programa de
F'ortalecimiento y Modernizaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Adquisiciones del Estado) which will be
prepared by the Government with the IDB's collaboration. .
This component would support Government initiatives to strengthen State governance and to promote
transparency by providing technical support and cofinancing for the IDB-financed project: Efficiency and
Transparency of State Purchasing and Contracting (Proyecto de Mejora de la Eficiencia y Transparencia
en las Compras y Contrataciones del Estado) in the areas of: (a) procurement training [component III of the
IDB operation]; and (b) the development of a new national system for the procurement of goods and
services (component IV of the IDB project). Additionally, financing will be provided for consultancies
geared to review and ultimately update the existing legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks that have
a bearing on public sector procurement practices.
Specifically, project assistance would be managed by the CPME and channeled towards:
1) Training in procurement procedures throughout participating secretariats. This will include training
programs in operational procedures for civil servants involved in the procurement process; on-the-job
training; workshops and seminars for the sharing of experiences among participating entities.
2) Developinzg a new public procurement information system. Financing would be provided to develop
and implement a system, such as the COMPRANET database and information system, which will
disseminate Government procurement requirements (technical specifications/economic requirements) to
prospective suppliers via the internet and allow the latter to present their offers electronically.
:3) Strengthening of the national regulatory and institutionalframeworks associated with public sector
purchasing and contracting. This would include financing of consultancies to review and update existing
state procurement legislation; and support studies geared to strengthening of institutional capacity of
secretariats to evaluate bids and award contracts--i.e., standardize procurement procedures throughout the
public sector. It would also strengthen the norrnative unit for procurement and the Office of Administrative
Probity.
Project Component 6 - US$5.00 million
Consolidating Regulatory Reforms
The new operation would continue supporting Govermment's efforts to create adequate legal frameworks
and consolidate regulatory authorities and to reduce the scope of State intervention in the provision of
public services. This component would comprise three subcomponents: strengthening of the CCP;
- 37 -



strengthening of regulatory institutions; and consolidation of public service and infrastructure regulatory
entities. SEFIN, assisted by the CCP, would manage implementation of this component.
1) Strengthening of the CCP. As a continuation of the efforts financed under the PSMTAC, the following
activities would be included in the Project:
(a) To strengthen the CCP: (i) Local Consultants would be contracted to increase the Commission
technical capacity to manage the restructuring processes and constitute the local counterpart for the
international firms that will advise the Government; (ii) local staff would be trained in the technical,
economic and legal aspects of restructuring, to include travel expenses and tuition of courses, seminars and
on-the-job training of staff; and (iii) computer, other office equipment and supplies, plus purchasing of
information and literature.
(b) Ports: Consultants would (i) update the diagnosis of the ports sector actual situation and the country
needs for future ports expansion; (ii) propose options for sector restructuring; (iii) discuss the options with
the government; (iv) recommend the preferred option; (v) carry out an environmental assessment of the
ports sector, not later than 18 months after effectiveness; and (vi) prepare an environmental management
plan, acceptable to the Association, to mitigate any negative environmental impact identified in the
assessment, not later than 45 days after completion of the study.
(c) Postal services. Consultants would (i) prepare the diagnosis of the postal services sector actual
situation and the country needs for future postal expansion; (ii) propose options for private sector
participation in the sector; (iii) discuss these options with the government; and (iv) recommend the
preferred option. Legal and technical advisors would carry out the privatization according to the option
selected.
(d) Telecommunications. Carry out technical, financial and legal studies to support institutional
restructuring within the telecommunications sector.
2) Strengthening of regulatory institutions.
The project would support the existing regulatory institutions, through training of the staff, technical
assistance and provision of equipment. In particular training would emphasize (i) regulatory accounting;
(ii) benchmark analysis; (iii) concession design and analysis of impact; (iv) interconnection pricing; (v) cost
based models for tariff setting and reviews; and (vi) particular areas applicable to specific sectors as
described below.
(a) Telecommunications. CONATEL started operations in January 1996 and is still a young organization
with only nine professional staff. The Commission needs at least 20 to 30 professionals to properly regulate
the sector to promote private sector investment in Honduras. This subcomponent includes:
Technical assistance to: (i) prepare amendments to the 1995 Telecommunications Law and its Regulations
to adapt it to new technological developments and to prepare for Sector liberalization, specifically when
COHODETEL exclusivity over basic services expires in five years, to transform CONATEL into a
semi-autonomous entity (it was created originally as part of the Secretary of Communications, Public
Works and Transport, and now is under SEFIN); (ii) create the National Telecommunications Development
Fund to provide subsidies to investment by private companies in rural and poor urban areas to provide their
citizens with access to telecom services; (iii) re-classify services, to be consistent with a more competitive
regime; (iv) simplify current procedures for granting licenses for frequencies; (v) revise regulations; and
- 38 -



(vi) draft new services' regulations.
CONATEL staff training, in, inter-alia: (i) services' control; (ii) service regulations; (iii) fundamental
technical plans; (iv) control of spectrum emissions; (v) radio frequency spectrum engineering; (vi) new
technologies; (vii) frequency licensing processes; (viii) management of the radio frequency spectrum; (ix)
interconnection pricing; (x) telephone numbering management; (xi) tariff regulation; (xii) competition
evaluation; (xiii) quality of service control; (xiv) sanction processes; (xv) deregulation of services in
competitive regimes.
Systems to manage the radio frequency spectrum to convert CONATEL paper archives to an automated
data base system for the radio frequency spectrum, as well as for the service concessions. The new system
would enable C'ONATEL to reduce the response time to grant a new license from weeks to days, as
CONATEL inlegrates the different data bases for each service into a unified database.
Systems to monitor the radio frequency spectrum to expand CONATEL's two fixed monitoring stations in
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, with three portable monitoring equipment for all bands (VHF, UHF, SHF
arid EHF) to allow the entity to detect and correct interferences and to determine the compliance of the
licensees to the terms of the licenses.
(b) Electricity. The Government would strengthen CNE, by providing:
Technical Assistance. The Government would hire a firm to assist the Commission to solve issues that it
needs to address from time to time.
Training of the staff. The staff of the Commission would be trained in Honduras as well as in foreign
countries in the technical aspects of transmission and distribution of electrical energy, inter-alia, in the
fcllowing subjects: (i) control of compliance of concession contracts; (ii) regulation of services; (iii) new
technologies; (iv) tariff regulation and price formation; (v) transmission prices; (vi) treatment of
transmission and distribution losses; (vii) spot market analysis; (viii) pool governance issues; (ix)
commercialization development and oversight; (x) evaluation of competition and anti-competitive behavior
of operators; (xi) quality of services control; (xii) enforcement of safety regulations on installations and
electrical appliances; and (xiii) enforcement of compliance, sanctions and resolution of disputes.
Information Systems. This subcomponent would include support for the information systems for the
Commission, including the hardware and software.
(c) Private sector participation: concessions and licenses. The Government would strengthen SCL by
p]roviding:
Technical assistance to (i) draft the regulations of the superintendency, for the Law of Promotion and
Development of Public Works and National Infrastructure; and (ii) assist the superintendency to solve
issues that it needs to address from time to time.
Training of the staff in, inter-alia: (i) control of compliance of concession contracts; (ii) technical
measurement of usage and billing of public services, including interrruption and restoration of services;
(iii) tariff regulation; (iv) evaluation of competition and anti-competitive behavior of operators; (v) control
of the quality of service; (vi) enforcement of safety regulations; and (vii) enforcement of compliance of
concession contracts, sanctions and resolution of disputes.
- 39 -



Information systems for the Commission, including the hardware and software.
(d) Civil Aviation. The Government would strengthen ANACI once created within the framework of an
integrated transport agency, by providing:
Technical assistance, once the new Civil Aviation Law is approved, to: prepare its Regulations; and assist
the Authority to solve issues that it needs to address from time to time. The technical assistance would
include preparation of an environmental assessment of the sector.
Training of the staff in the technical aspects of regulation and supervision of, inter-alia: (i) construction of
aerodromes, airports; (ii) aerial navigation services provision; (iii) air traffic control; (iv) air transp6rt and
work; (v) safety and flight protection; (vi) quality of service provision regulations; (vii) installations safety
regulations; and (viii) technical regulations on airport services.
Information systems for the Authority, including the hardware and software.
3) Consolidation of the system ofpublic service and infrastructure of regulatory entities.
This subcomponent would include technical assistance to carry out a review of the regulatory entities,
aiming at determnining the current regulatory capacity and needs of all sector entities. This would include an
analysis of current legislation pertaining to the sectors included in this project. Particular attention will be
given to study the advantages of an integrated transport regulatory agency, and the development of a
multimodality and logistic unit. The consultancy would propose a new model that, according to the
Honduran legislative framnework, would improve the financial independence and administrative autonomy
of the regulatory entities. Based on the results of this study, the Government would propose adjustments to
legislation pertaining to the entities in order to create a coherent and harmonic system of regulation.
Project Component 7 - US$1.50 million
Project Management
This component would support the Executive Secretariat of the CPME by strengthening the operational
capacity of the project coordinating unit (PCU), which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the
project. The component would finance the costs of the PCU consultants, equipment and activities
necessary to manage implementation of the project and to coordinate with the other executing
agencies--SEFIN, assisted by CCP, and CGR, as well as with the various implementing entities. The PCU
would support and monitor the progress of the project, oversee contract completion, track disbursements,
prepare semi-annual progress reports, and provide assistance to the Association's supervision missions. The
output of this component would be effective project management and results.
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
E             Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Public Finance Management and Internal Control              1.23          6.09         7.32
Reorganization of the Comptroller General's Office (CGR)    0.35          2.20         2.55
Human Resource Management                                   0.76          1.52         2.28
Developing Peiformance Evaluation Capacity                  0.93          1.17         2.10
Public Procurement                                          0.29          1.14         1.43
Ccnsolidating Regulatory Reforms                            1.00          3.74         4.74
Project Management                                          1.14          0.30         1.44
Total Baseline Cost                                         5.70         16.16        21.86
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.30          0.84         1.14
Total Project Costs               6.00         17.00        23.00
Total Financing Required                6.00         17.00        23.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $million   US $million
Goods                                                        0.28           7.44          7.72
Works                                                         0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                      5.52          8.96         14.48
Training                                                      0.20          0.60          0.80
Total Project Costs      6.00          17.00        23.00
Total Financing Required       6.00         17.00         23.00
-41 -



Annex 4
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Benefits:
Important technical, managerial, personnel, and procedural benefits produced by the project would
have a positive impact on the country's fiscal health. Today, inefficiencies arise from weak
structures in audit institutions. Building adequate technical and managerial capacity within SEFIN
and restructuring of the CGR are key elements in the Government's approach. Improved audit
standards and the overall institutionalization of internal controls within the Executive would ensure
a rigorous management of fiscal resources. Additionally, implementation of SIAFI throughout the
central government and decentralized institutions will allow complete transparency in the recording
and reporting of the Government's economic activities and will establish a framework to ensure an
accountability regime, while strengthening the external control system..
Another substantial benefit from the project is expected to occur in the public sector workforce. The
project's proposed implementation of centralized norms and decentralized operations, and the
consolidation of the ongoing Human Resources Information System is expected to yield important
fiscal savings. By having a complete and accurate registry of public employees, the project would
be able to rationalize human resources needs and deployment. This quality reallocation is expected
to happen, at different degrees, in several administrative units across secretariats. A voluntary
retirement scheme would complement this employment rationalization.
The development of performance evaluation capacity should lead to improved budget analytical
techniques and use of evaluation findings. The expected result would be better sectoral
programming and priority-setting in public expenditures. Better distribution of scarce public funds
would minimize inefficiently allocated resources and increase accountability of actual expenditures,
thus allowing the Treasury to attain more efficient cash flow management.
Strengthening regulatory authorities to oversee private sector participation in the provision of public
services will consolidate the savings already gained in the state's transfer of public enterprises to the
private sector. Of utmost strategic importance for fiscal savings, the component of public
procurement will increase transparency and is expected to minimize deficiencies of the transactions
in public sector purchasing.
Financial controls would be positively affected by the nature and objectives of the project. The
strategy supports the development and implementation of a new financial management system,
including its integration with other management systems and coordination with SEFIN and line
secretariats. The strategy would also link human resources management to the financial
management system in SEFIN, and strengthen the capacity for planning, monitoring and evaluation
in SEFIN and in the line secretariats. Moreover, modernization of the supreme audit institution,
the financial management system and the strengthening of regulatory authorities would contribute
to the overall strategy to promote transparency and accountability in the public sector.
- 42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
August 31 (in US$M)
*MLf-MENTATION PERtOp
Year  I I Year2 2     Year 3  | Year 4  | Year5  | Year 6  l Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             4.6         9.2        6.9        2.3         0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            4.6         9.2        6.9         2.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                4.6         9.2        6.9         2.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     3.8        7.6         5.7        1.9                   0.0        0.0
Government                   0.8        1.6         1.2        0.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       4.6         9.2        6.9         2.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Investment costs include technical assistance, training and goods.
-43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999; and the special provisions stipulated in the Development Credit
Agreement.
Procurement Methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below and the estimated
amnounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each
method are fixed in Table B.
Goods
Goods procured under this project will include computer equipment and software, electronic information
systems, training material and publications, vehicles and office equipment, totaling US$7.72 million
equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for the goods will be grouped into bidding packages of over
US$100,000 equivalent and will be procured following Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values
between US$25,000 equivalent and US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$700,000 equivalent may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and
standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Association. Contracts for goods which cannot be
grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$340,000 equivalent, may be procured using shopping
(National/Intemational) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Association.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: financial
management and control, information systems, human resource, performance evaluation, privatization,
purchases and acquisition systems. These services are estimated to cost US$14.48 million equivalent and
would be procured using Bank Standard Requests for Proposals.
Firms
All contracts with firms would be procured using QCBS, except for small and simple contracts estimated
to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using CQ, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$900,000 equivalent.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
- 44 -



qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5. Although
5.3 of the Consultant's Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of US$3.19 million equivalent.
Prior review threshold:
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the project
implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
Assessment of the Agency's capacity to implement procurement
The PCU (Project Coordinating Unit) within the CPME would carry out the procurement for Components
1, 3, 4, 5 and 7. Procurement for Component 6 (Consolidating Regulatory Reforms) would be carried out
by the CCP (Comision Consultiva de Privatizacion). Procurement for Component 2 (Reorganization of the
Comptroller General's Office) would be carried out by the Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR).
The PCU will include a project coordinator, three specialists to coordinate implementation of project
components, one procurement officer and one administrative/financial officer. The Operational Manual will
include the procedures for the internal control of procurement actions, the technical specifications in each
case, as well as reference to the model contracts as per the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
An assessment of the capacity of the PCU and the PU-CCP was carried out and subsequently cleared on
May 18, 2000 by the Regional Procurement Advisor. The assessment covered the organizational structure
of the implementing units and the procurement arrangements for the project, their capacity to carry out the
Bank required procurement cycle management and the interaction between the different project
implementing tnits.
The risks identified in the assessment include: lack of a procurement officer clearly responsible for project
procurement; lack of procurement planning and lack of staff with planning skills; some external influence
on the appointment of individual consultants. The CPME will take actions to mitigate these risks, such as:
revise PCU staff s responsibilities and functions; appoint a qualified procurement consultant for an initial
period of two rnonths and to provide further assistance through short-term visits during project
inmplementationi; and favor the appointment of consulting firms over individual consultants. In addition, the
technical specialists in the CCP must submit a six-month procurement plan each semester to the CCP's
procurement officer to facilitate project implementation.
The overall project risk for procurement is average.
Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provides the
basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods. This plan will be revised with the assistance
of the procuremnent consultant to be appointed by the PCU. At the beginning of each calendar year, the
Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
Frecuency of Procurement Supervision.
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by the Association, the capacity assessment of
the PCU and PU-CCP recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field every six months during
project implementation, to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk
assessment, the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
-45 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            6.68           0.70           0.34           0.00          7.72
(6.68)         (0.66)        (0.34)         (0.00)        (7.68)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          14.48           0.00         14.48
(0.00)         (0.00)        (10.52)        (0.00)        (10.52)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00           0.80           0.00          0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.80)         (0.00)        (0.80)
Total                            6.68           0.70           15.62          0.00         23.00
(6.68)         (0.66)        (11.66)        (0.00)        (19.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
71 Includes goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services.
-46 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category
A. Firms           10.39     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.90     0.00      0.00     11.29
(7.58)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.65)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (8.23)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     3.19      0.OQ      3.19
______________  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.29)    (0.00)    (2.29)
Total  10.39     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.90      3.19      0.00     14.48
______________  (7.58)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.65)    (2.29)    (0.00)   (10.52)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Exnenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions}
1. Works
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                 All documents
25-100                  NCB               All contracts over 25
<25                SHOPPING             First two contracts
3. Services
Firms                           >100                    QCBS                     All
<100                     CQ             TORs only & Short List
Individuals                      >30                    Other                    All
<30                   Other            All TORs & Short List
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$18.31 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally. differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Financial Arrangements:
Financial ManagJement Assessment
The Borrower will maintain a financial management system with CPME, inicluding records and accounts,
anci prepare finatncial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
In compliance with the conditions outlined in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual (Feb.
1999), a LAC FMO carried out the required project financial management assessment to determine the
capacity to produce PMRs concluding that the PCU and the CCP have the capacity and experienced
prcfessional staff to undertake financial management and observe Bank standards in this regard during
prcject implementation. The project's Financial Assessment was perforned in Tegucigalpa on April 24-28,
2000 by FMS Manuel Vargas (in project files).
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) at the CPME and Inmplementing Unil at the CCP.
Both the Project Coordinating Unit at the CPME and the CCP at SEFIN have managerial responsibilities in
the contracting and payment of services and goods provided under the ongoing Project (PSMTAC). For
these purposes, each of these entities has used funds from the special account. The PCU currently is and
will be responsible for recording financial transactions, preparing supporting documentation for credit
withdrawal applications, financial reports and for the coordination with external auditors. Internal control
procedures are acceptable and there is a corresponding manual. Arrangements for flow of funds and the
recovery of advances to the Special Account are also adequate. The accounting system satisfies the
minimum requisites for financial information as requested by the Association and the annual financial
statements are audited by an independent firmn under acceptable conditions. The adequate execution of these
functions has relied on close collaboration between the two entities. The continuation of TLhese attributes is
necessary for the proposed operation. Yet, some improvements are necessary and they are specified in the
Action Plan described below.
Implementation Unit at the CGR
This unit was recently created, and there will be a financial management system that will work under
arrangements similar to those of the CPME: It will have its own subaccount with funds allocated from the
Special Account by the PCU according to project needs, and it will be responsible for payments associated
with its project component. The unit will provide its own PMRs to register transactions in its accounting
registries and thus enable the PCU to present PMRs and other financial information and coordinate the
external auditing on the CGR's behalf to the Association.
Although the CGR is not yet experienced in the handling of funds coming from the IDA, the staff assigned
to this activity have a satisfactory professional background. On internal control and flow of funds
procedures, the CGR will apply the model used by the PCU and the CCP.
Summarizing, [or this project, the three implementing units (PCU, CCP, CGR) will keep separate
subaccounts with funds allocated from the Special Account by the PCU, according to project needs.
- 49 -



Action Plan
Action Plan: As a result of the assessment, the following activities were identified that must be completed
before effectiveness:
a. Updating, review and approval of the manual for management, financial and accounting norms and
procedures.
b. Opening of the Special Account and of the bank account for counterpart funds.
c. Revise Project Implementation Plan, including management indicators and annual budgets, all consistent
with the Project Appraisal Document. During the first year, the annual Operation Plan and the Budget must
be specified by quarter.
d. Definition of the format for the Project Management Reports PMRs
e. Updating of the Chart of Accounts.
f. Definition of the distribution, review, analysis and approval procedures for the monthly, quarterly and
annual financial information.
g. Preparation, review and approval of the terms of reference for the external auditors.
h. Definition of the mechanisms of coordination of the financial information with the executing agency at
the CGR.
i. Preparation, review and approval of the position descriptions of project staff at the CGR.
The following activities must be implemented not later than March 31, 2001:
a. Updating of the management informnation electronic system to allow PMR preparation.
b. Preparation of the technical and user manuals for the management information electronic system.
a. Preparation and submittal of quarterly PMRs
c. Utilization of PMRs as a base for disbursement applications for the Credit.
d. Contracting of external auditors.
e. Deposit of counterpart funds for the first year of implementation in the Project's bank account.
f. Updating of the information management software that will: i) allow the processing of multicurrency
information; ii) permit a multi-user capacity; and iii) establish the linkages to monitoring indicators.
It is recommended that the three units with administrative/managerial functions (PCU, CCP and CGR)
agree on a timetable to coordinate their collaboration towards the achievement of the activities earlier
described. For supervision purposes, the PCU will present monthly reports to the Association to inform on
the progress of the execution of such activities.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                     7.68                  100% foreign, 88% local.
2. Consultant Services                       10.52                          100%
3. Training                                  0.80                           100%
Total Project Costs                          19.00     |
Total                                        19.00
- 50 -



Usie of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement of IDA funds will be made in accordance with the categories shown in Table C. Retroactive
financing would be permitted to reimburse eligible expenditures made after November 1, 1999 for goods,
consultancies and training up to a total amount of US$1.9 million equivalent (with no financing for
ANACI). The closing date of the credit is August 31, 2004.
At the beginning of project implementation, the Borrower will use traditional disbursement procedures,
incl]uding Statements of Expenditures for contracts below US$25,000 in the case of procurement of goods,
US$100,000 for consulting firm contracts and US$30,000 for individual consultant contracts and training.
Full documentation will be required for disbursement against goods and services exceeding the above
limits. For documentation in support of Statements of Expenditures, the Borrower must: (i) maintain, or
catuse to be maintained, records in separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year
after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last with drawal from the
loan account was made, all records evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's
representatives i:o examine such records; (iv) ensure that such recordsand accounts are included in the
annual audit. The report of such audit must contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
Statements of Expenditures (or eventually the Project Management Reports) submitted during such fiscal
year, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Project Management Reports:
Not later than March 31, 2001, the PCU and the CGR will furnish to the Association quarterly Project
Management Reports which specify actual sources and applications of funds for the parts of the Project
under their responsibility, both cumulatively and for the period covered by that report as well as projected
sources and application of funds for the project for the six month period, following the period covered by
that report. The report will also show separately expenditures out of the proceeds of the fund during the
period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
during the next six month period.
The PMRs will: (i) describe physical progress in project implementation both cumulatively and for the
period covered by the report; (ii) explain variances between the actual and previously forecasted
implementation targets and (iii) describe the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under
contracts financed out of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by the report.
Special accoijnt:
In order to facilitate disbursements and timely project implementation, the Government will establish,
maintain and operate a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to -he Association to cover the IDA share of eligible expenditures. Total advances at any given
tirne would not be allowed to exceed the "authorized allocation" of US$1.4 million equivalent.
The PCU will manage a Special Account and will allocate funds to the implementing units (CCP and
CGR), via subaccounting arrangements, according to project needs.
- 51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       I10                           6
First Bank mission (identification)              08/16/99                       11/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                       11/30/99                     04/25/2000
Negotiations                                     06/21/2000                    05/25/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     11/30/2000                  11/30/2000
Prepared by:
Honduran team led by the Executive Secretariat of the Presidential Commission for Modernization of the
State (CPME) together with the Secretariat of Finance and Office of the Comptroller General of the
Republic, and
World Bank team.
Preparation assistance:
Government: Licda. Rosa Lidia Montes de Oca (Project Coordinator, PCU/CPME), Licda. Gloria Maria
Palacios (Institutional Restructuring PCU/CPME), Licda. Rosario Cobar (Employment and Salary
Regimes/Human Resource Mangement PCU/CPME), Licda. Carmen Martinez (Procurement PCU/CPME
), Licda. Glenda Gallardo (Director. UNAT/SPR), L-ic. Hugo Castillo (Viceminister, Public Investment &
Credit, SEFIN), Lic. Rodolfo Danery Fuhes (Viceminister, Finance & Budget, SEFIN), Ing. Gustavo
Adolfo Torres (Information Systems SIAFI/SEFIN), Lic. Mario Aguero Lacayo (Executive Secretary
CCP), Dra. Lorena Rodriguez (Regulatory issues, CCP), Lic. Edgardo Madariaga (Privatization, CCP),
Dra. Vilman Morales (Lawyer, CCP). Consultants: Vicente Lopez (information technology systems),
Bruce Carlson (performance evaluation/donor coordination), Angel Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria
(restructuring of the CGR), Marcelo Osorio (procurement), William Mayville (institutional assessment).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Antonio Martin del Campo          |Team Leader
Javier Burgos                     |Privatization/Regulatory Frameworks/Airports Specialist
Eloy Vidal                        !Telecommunications Specialist
Monica Fidel                      Hfiuman Resource Management Specialist
Maria del Carmen Minoso            Institutional development/public procurement-Operations Analyst
Jose Kliksberg                    jPerformance evaluation/indicators/Projects Assistant
Keith Mackay                       Peer Reviewer
Vicente Fretes-Cibils              Peer Reviewer
Eliana Villagomez                  Task Team Assistant
Reynaldo Pastor                    Legal Counselor
Emilio Rodriguez                   Procurement Specialist
Rose Elba Perez                    Project Management/ Costing/ Operations Analyst
Manuel Vargas                      Financial Management Specialist
- 52 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Draft versions of the basic programs of implementation by component.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Donor Coordination (Bruce Carlson)
Donor Activities Related to the Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic (Angel
Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria)
Involvement in Institutional Diagnosis of the Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic (Angel
Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria).
Institutional Assessment (William Mayville).
C. Other
Telecommunications
Telecommunications Law
Regulations to the Telecommunications Law (May 27, 1997).
Reformed Capitalization Decree approved by Congress in May 1999.
Civil Aviation
Ley para la Prestaci6n y Gesti6n de los Servicios Publicos (January 1999).
Proyecto de Ley de Aviaci6n Civil
Electricity
Proyecto de Ley Electricidad (1999)
Enacted Regulations to the Electric Sector Framework Law.
Amended Framnework Law (May 1998)
Human Resource Management
Design and Implementation of a Human Resource Management System for the Civil Service and
Neighboring Central Government Regimes (Cincorp-Hay) approved by Congress in March 1998.
Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming
Draft Integrated Financial Management System Law (1999).
Phases I and II of the Design and Implementation of the Integrated Financial Management System (Vinterc
& Barents).
*Including electronic files
- 53 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
HN-PE-7392    1993 GOVERNMENT                NUTRITION/HLTH              TRNSPRT SCTR           D.00      35.40       0.00       6.71      -4.40     -0.87
HN-pE-7388    1993 GOVERNMENT OF             RHB             BASIC EDUCATION                    D.00      85.00       0.00      17.93      -2.97      8.85
HN-PE-7399    1995 HONDURAS GOVT OF          ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT             PUB SEC           0.00      30.00       0.00      10.24      9.53       0.00
HN-PE-7396    1995 HONDURAS                  MOD TAC                                            0.00      10.80       0.00       2.72      2.76       3.06
HN-PE-34607   1996 GOVERNMENT OF             PUB SEC MOD SAC               RURAL LAND           0.00       9.60       0.00       1.54       1.61      0.00
HN-PE-7387    1996 HONDURAS REPUBLICOF  MGMT                   PROFUTURO                        0.00     115.70       0.00      27.58       1.13      6.83
HN-PE-7398    1997 HONDURAS  REPUBLICOF FHISIV                                                  0.00      34.00       0.00      20.52       8.16      5.87
HN-PE-57350   1999 HONDURAS                                                                     0.00       8.30       0.00       7.60      0.00       0.00
HN-PE48651   1999 GOVERNMENT OF                                                                 0 00      67 .5       0 00      24 62     -31.28     o0.0
1                  HONDURAS REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS
GOVERNMENT OF
HONDURAS
Total:       0.00      396.30        0.00      119.46    -15.60     23.54
- 54 -



HONDURAS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995/98             Elcosa                          7.90      2.6    3.50    19.46     7.90     2.63     3.50    19.46
1997                Cressida                      15.00   40.00    10.00    37.00    15.00    0.00    10.00   37.00
Total Portfolio:         22.90     2.64    13.50    56.46   22.90    2.63    13.50   56.46
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                             Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998               CAMINO REAL                        10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998               PLAZCRESSIDA BLINC                  0.00      0.00       0.00      7.00
1999               GRANJAS MARIN II                    6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         16.00       0.00      0.00       7.00
- 55 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
HONDURAS: ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               America       Low-
Honduras   & Cari.   income          Development diamond
1998
PoniitAtion mid-vser Mttillios5                            A 7        .(n      1 SIS                   Life expectancy
GNP nar anAnida t(A 1method NSS)                           730      3 940       .50
O.NP fAtHas method UlSS billionl)                          4 s       t 78     I 844
Average annual orowth. 1992-98
pnolArtion (%l                                                        1R        1 7
Labor force t%l                                            38         2 3        19       Gpe                                pross
per           >.primary
Most recent ftstimat* flatest vear avaIlable. 1992-98)                                    capita                          enrolIment
Pavertv (% of ooculation below national aovertv linel       So
lt ran n onlatn, t% aOf tONfi oonU/atotonl                  48         75         31
I ifeA sntetan.v at hirth Ivears)                           69         7( f       fM
Infant mortalitv foer 1.000 live birthsl                    36         32         69
thildn maln&tritinn f% of children undftr 5)                1 R         8                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of Dooulltion)                      77         75         74
lterart-vw (/ of oooulation Aoe 15+.                        79         13         97
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of sctlool-aoe oooulabonl      ilt        113        108                    Honduras
Male                                                     11f                   11 3                 -Low-income group
FPaml a                                                  112                   103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1S87        1997      1998
Economic ratios
GOP fuSS billions)                                1 7      4 2        4.6        5,3
G-rosstomestic invAstmentlGfnP                  731       17 4       31 5       29 r                       Trade
Ewoorts of 0oo0s and servicesIGOP               34 8      22 0       47 0       45.3
Gr-ss dome,st,r sav,nnsGnoP                    18        13 5       7 5S       27 4
Gross natinnal s.vinns/GOP                       14 S      97         24 6      230t
0.-rrant acr.onunt hal-an .P                     .F t                 -                   Domestic .nvestment
Interest navments/GI3P                            1 R      2 3        3 7        34                                      Investment
Total detll/G DP                                451       79.5      101 4       94 6      Savings
Total (le.t qervi,-.As/nrts                      17 q     34 1       71 7       159
Present value of debt/GOp                                            80 5
Present vrait nf rldhtflmnorts                                      16i02 
Indebtedness
1977-87  1S88-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowthl
GnP                                     2 2       34       51         30         39                      Honduras
G NP oar t-anitr                       -10 n      05       3 4        1 1        1 f                     Low-income oroup
Exnoris ot aoods and services          1 5      21        1 0        1 a        7 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
t% of GDPI
40
Anrirnultutre                                   30 2; 90 9           20 7       17 r        T
Ind,,strv                                       23 2      23 0       25 fi      7  
Manufacturinn                                  lb 1      14 5       1.S 5.    1.S 9
berv i,es                                       4S2       561        54 2       55f 
Private consumotion                             68 9      72 3       60 2       63 1      -10     93   94   95   96   97   98
G eneral onovrnmrnt consurmntinn                1 5       14 7        14 2      14 s                      GDI        -GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                   39.3      25.9       52.9       52 4
1977-87 v*raoannualorowth1988-98  1997  1998  Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(aversae annual orowthl
Aariculture                                       22       32          5.6      -7O D     5
Indrustrv                                        24        3 7        47    a   n         10
Manufacturina                                   2.2       3.7        6 1        5 8       5
.ervices                                          25       34          52        59
Private consumDtion                               2.5      3 1        6 0        3.0       s       2    94   9s   96            99
General onvernment consumotion                    3 1      -2 0       -0 4       92
Gross domestic, investment                       -4 1      83          1 1       6f n    .
Imnorts nf onrds and servines                    -' 4      3 4        -1 9       6n                      Exports     2  Impo0s
Gross national oroduct                           2 2       3 8        6 4        4 0
Note, 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-orouo averane. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incomnlete
- 56 -



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977      1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            40
Consumer prices                                  ..      2.5       20.2      13.7    30
Implieit GDP deflator                          12.2      2.8       22.7      13.7    20
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                                   .     22.6       31.3      29.9             93    94    95    96   97    98
Current budget balance                            .      1.0        6.9       5.5                   GDP deflator    4  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           .     -3.8       -1.3      -1.8
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               .      822      1,536     1,605     3,000
Bananas                                         ..    311        212        176
Coffee                                          ..     200        327       430     2,000
Manufactures                                    .        .
Total imports (cif)                                      953      2,149     2,569         I
Food                                           ..      139        269       346     1.000.
Fuel and energy                                ..      119        234       221
Capital goods                                   .      193        529       510        0E,.E           JU
92   93  94   95   96   97  99
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                    ..       87        98        87
Imoort once index (1995=100)                     ..       81        95        84               * Exporns        Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                            ..     108       103       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                11977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  581      950       2,176     2,396      o
Imports of goods and services                  655    1,072       2,452     2,775
Nei income                                      -69     -235      -218      -206
Net current transfers                            0        36       174       235       -11l       11
Current account balance                        -143     -320       -321      -350     -12
Financing items (net)                          209       398       601       518
Changes in net reserves                         -67      -78      -280      -168      -16
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS milbions)           ..      114       591       824
Conversion rate (DEC. locaMUSSI                 2.0      2.0       13.0      13.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           754    3,300       4,698     5,007
IBRD                                          87      575        275       235                  G: 536  A:235
IDA                                           33       80        496       579                                   3:579
Total debt service                             106       342       505       506
IBRD                                           9       59         73        68          F:576                       C:113
IDA                                            0         1         5         6
Ccmposition of net resource flows
Official grants                                9       133       139       193
Official creditors                            71      124        348        18
Private creditorA                             69       -41         3       110
Foreign direct investment                      9       39        128        99    |         1_ 45
Portfolio equity                               0         0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   17         4        48       245      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 25       25         95    63,908      B - IDA    D - Other mulbiateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                           3       26         52        50    CC- MF                          G - Short-term
Netflows                                      22        -1        43    63,858
Interest payments                              6       34         26        23
Net transfers                                 16       -35        17    63,835
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/22/99
- 57 -



