Page  1
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY
Page  3
Page  4
Page  5
Page  6
Page  7
Page  8
CREDIT NUMBER 3414-HO
Page  9
Page  10
Page  11
Page  12
Page  13
Page  14
Page  15
Page  16
Development Credit Agreement
Page  17
Page  18
Page  19
(Economic and Financial Management Project)
Page  20
Page  21
Page  22
between
Page  23
Page  24
Page  25
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Page  26
Page  27
Page  28
and
Page  29
Page  30
Page  31
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  32
Page  33
Page  34
Page  35
Page  36
Page  37
Page  38
Page  39
Dated October 24, 2000
Page  40
Page  41
CREDIT NUMBER 3414-HO
Page  42
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Page  43
AGREEMENT, dated October 24, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  44
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
Page  45
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  46
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  47
ARTICLE I
Page  48
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  49
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  50
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
Page  51
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
Page  52
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  53
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Page  54
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  55
(a)
"Autonomous Institution" means a legal entity created by law which is 
owned by the Borrower;
Page  56
(b)
"BCH" means Banco Central de Honduras, the Borrower’s Central Bank;
Page  57
(c)
"CCP" means Comisión Consultiva de  Privatización, the Borrower’s 
Consultative Commission for Privatization;
Page  58
(d)
"CGR" means Contraloria General de la República, the Borrower’s 
Comptroller General Office established pursuant to Article 222 of the Borrower’s 
Constitution;
Page  59
(e)
"Civil Service Law" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 126 of November 13, 
1967 which established the legal framework for the civil service regime, and such term 
also includes the regulations to such Decreto, as such Decreto and regulations have 
been amended to the date of this Agreement;
Page  60
(f)
"CPME" means Comisión Presidencial para la Modernización del Estado, the  
Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree (Decreto) No. 190-91 of  December 11, 1991;
Page  61
(g)
"Decree No. 224-93" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 224-93 of December 
20, 1993 which sets forth the organic law of the CGR (Ley Orgánica de la Contraloria 
General de la República), and such term also includes the regulations to such Decree, 
as such Decree and regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
Page  62
(h)
"DGSC" means Dirección General de Servicio Civil, the General Directorate 
of Civil Service within SPR (as defined below); 
Page  63
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  64
(j)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  65
(k)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which sets forth the Project indicators;
Page  66
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement;
Page  67
(m)
"Participating Autonomous Institution" means an Autonomous Institution 
(as defined above) which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
participating in Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project;
Page  68
(n)
"Participating Semi-Autonomous Institution" means a Semi-Autonomous 
Institution (as defined below) which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual for participating in Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project;
Page  69
(o)
"Participating Secretariats" means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de 
Agricultura (the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture), Secretaría de Estado en el 
Despacho de Salud Pública (the Borrower’s Secretariat of Health), Secretaría de Estado 
en el Despacho de Educación (the Borrower’s Secretariat of Education), Secretaría de 
Estado en el Despacho de Obras Públicas, Transportes y Vivienda (the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing) and Secretaría de Estado en el 
Despacho de Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente (the Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural 
Resources and the Environment); 
Page  70
(p)
"PCU" means the unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 
(Decreto) No. 31-96 of February 17, 1996 and referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this 
Agreement;
Page  71
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement;
Page  72
(r)
"PSMP" means Programa de Modernización para el Sector Publico, the Public 
Sector Modernization Program approved pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree (Decreto) No. 
62-96 of May 21, 1996;
Page  73
(s)
"PU" means the Project unit established within CGR and  referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
Page  74
(t)
"Regulatory Entities" means Comisión Nacional de Energía (the Borrower’s 
regulatory agency for the energy sector), Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (the 
Borrower’s regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector), Superintendencia de 
Concesiones y Licencias (the Borrower’s agency which grants public concessions and 
licenses) and any other entity with regulatory capacity acceptable to the Association; 
Page  75
(u)
"Secretariat" means a Secretaría, a higher level administrative body 
within the structure of Borrower’s executive branch;
Page  76
(v)
"SEFIN" means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance;
Page  77
(w)
"Semi-Autonomous Institution" means an agency or a legal entity created 
by law under the jurisdiction of the Borrower’s executive branch which is empowered to 
provide public administrative services; 
Page  78
(x)
"SIAFI" means Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera, the 
Borrower’s integrated financial management system;
Page  79
(y)
"SIARH" means Sistema Integral de Administración de Recursos Humanos, the 
Borrower’s comprehensive human resources management system;
Page  80
(z)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
Page  81
(aa)
"SPR" means Secretaría de Estado del Despacho Presidencial (the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of the Presidency);
Page  82
(ab)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement; and 
Page  83
(ac)
"UPEG" means Unidad de Planeamiento y Evaluación de Gestion, a planning 
and evaluation unit within each Secretariat (as defined above). 
Page  84
ARTICLE II
Page  85
The Credit
Page  86
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,400,000).
Page  87
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Page  88
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Page  89
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  90
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  91
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  92
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  93
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  94
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2010 and ending June 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
Page  95
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  96
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
Page  97
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  98
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  99
ARTICLE III
Page  100
Execution of the Project
Page  101
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
Page  102
(a)
carry out: (i) Part A of the Project through CPME with the participation 
of SEFIN; (ii) Parts C and D of the Project through CPME with the participation of 
SPR; (iii) Parts E and G of the Project through CPME; and (iv) Part F of the Project 
through SEFIN with the participation of CCP, all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for said Parts of the Project; and
Page  103
(b)
cause CGR to carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary 
Agreement, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
CGR to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said Part of the Project.
Page  104
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Page  105
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement,  the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts A, C, D, E, F and G of the 
Project; and (ii) shall cause CGR to carry out Part B of the Project, in accordance 
with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, said manual to include, 
inter alia, the disbursement and procurement procedures for the Project and the 
criteria for the selection of the Participating Autonomous Institutions and 
Participating Semi-Autonomous Institutions. 
Page  106
(b)
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Page  107
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part 
A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to CGR under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CGR, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association, providing, inter alia, that CGR 
shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively in respect of Part B of 
the Project).
Page  108
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  109
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  110
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; 
Page  111
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
Page  112
(c)
cause CGR to afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower and CGR on said plan.
Page  113
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain within CPME, during 
the implementation of the Project, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  114
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, headed by a coordinator and assisted by staff in 
adequate numbers, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  115
Section 3.07.  (a) The Borrower shall cause CGR to operate and maintain the PU 
during the implementation of the Project, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association.
Page  116
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CGR to ensure that the PU is at all times during 
the implementation of the Project, headed by a coordinator and assisted by staff in 
adequate numbers, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  117
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting in the year 2000, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a plan, acceptable to the Association, which shall describe the Project 
activities to be carried out during the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of such plan; and (b) thereafter implement said plan in accordance with 
its terms. 
Page  118
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
Page  119
(a)
maintain, and cause CGR to maintain, policies and procedures adequate to 
enable the Borrower and the CGR to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying 
out of the Parts of the Project under their responsibility and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
Page  120
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than July 31 and January 31 of each year during 
Project implementation, starting with the report due on January 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar semester; and
Page  121
(c)
review with CGR and the Association, not later than September 30 of each 
year during Project implementation, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the pertinent report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take, or cause to be taken, all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  122
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than 18 months after the 
Effective Date carry out the study referred to in Part F.1 (b) of the Project; (b) not 
later than 45 days after the completion of said study, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, an environmental management plan, acceptable to the Association, which 
shall include, inter alia, the actions to mitigate negative environmental impacts 
identified in the environmental assessment within said study, and a financing plan 
therefor; and (c) thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, said plan in 
accordance with its terms. 
Page  123
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall implement each action plan referred to in Part 
D.2 (b) of the Project in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Page  124
ARTICLE IV
Page  125
Financial Covenants
Page  126
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish within CPME and thereafter 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A, C, D, E, F and G of the 
Project.
Page  127
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  128
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  129
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  130
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  131
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  132
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  133
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  134
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  135
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  136
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause CGR to establish and thereafter 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part B of the Project.
Page  137
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CGR to:
Page  138
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  139
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  140
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  141
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure in respect of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause CGR to:
Page  142
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  143
(ii)
retain until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made in respect of Part B of the 
Project, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  144
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  145
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  146
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01  in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
Page  147
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts 
A, C, D, E, F and G of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for said Parts of the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
Page  148
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the implementation of Parts A, 
C, D, E, F and G of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
Page  149
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A, C, D, E, F and 
G of the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
Page  150
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  151
Section 4.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CGR to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.02  in order to enable CGR, not later 
than March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
Page  152
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part B 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
said Part of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
Page  153
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the implementation of Part B of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
Page  154
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Page  155
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall cause CGR to prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  156
ARTICLE V
Page  157
Other Covenants
Page  158
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause CGR to carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound technical, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  159
ARTICLE VI
Page  160
Remedies of the Association
Page  161
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  162
(a)
CGR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CGR will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
Decree No. 224-93 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of CGR 
to carry out Part B of the Project. 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Association;
(b)  
a financial management system, acceptable to the Association, has been 
established as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; and  
(c)
a financial management system, acceptable to the Association, has been 
established as provided in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement. 
Section 7.02. The date January 24, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Page  163
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
HACIENDA
1308
(504) 237-4142
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph M. Owen
Resident Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) under Parts
  4,830,000
)
A, C, D, E, F.1, 
)
F.2,F.4 )
Page  164
and G of the Project
)
)
100% of foreign
(b) under Part B
    910,000 ) expenditures and
of the Project
)
88% of local
)
expenditures
(c) under Part F.3
     80,000
)
of the Project
)
(2)
Consultants’
services
(a) under Parts
  6,560,000
)
A, C, D, E, F.1, 
)
F.2, F.4 
)
Page  165
and G of the Project
)
Page  166
)
Page  167
(b) under Part B
          760,000
)
100%
Page  168
of the Project
)
Page  169
)
Page  170
(c) under Part F.3 
    650,000
)
Page  171
of the Project 
)
Page  172
Page  173
(3)
Training
Page  174
Page  175
(a) under Parts
          490,000
)
Page  176
A, C, D, E, F.1, F.2, 
)
Page  177
F.4 and G of the Project
)
Page  178
)
Page  179
(b) under Part B
           80,000
)
100%
Page  180
of the Project
)
Page  181
)
Page  182
(c) under Part F.3
     40,000
)
Page  183
of the Project
)
Page  184
Page  185
TOTAL  
14,400,000
Page  186
Page  187
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  188
Page  189
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
Page  190
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and
Page  191
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for Consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower and CGR to finance the perdiem and travel cost of 
trainers and trainees and the rental of training facilities under the Project.
Page  192
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
Page  193
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,440,000,may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a) and (b) and 
(3) (a) and (b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after November 1, 1999; 
Page  194
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) 
(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Part, unless: (i) the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CGR; and (ii) the Borrower 
has furnished to the Association a legal opinion, acceptable to the Association of 
counsel acceptable to the Association, indicating that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CGR and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and CGR in accordance with its terms; and
Page  195
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c), (2) (c) and (3) 
(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Part, unless the Borrower has 
created a regulatory entity for its aviation sector with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Page  196
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
costing less than $25,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first two 
contracts to be procured under Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing 
less than 30,000 equivalent each; and (d) Training as set forth in Category (3) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Part A, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  197
B.
Special Account
Page  198
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account  in BCH, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Page  199
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  200
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report under Sections 4.03 (b) and 4.04 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
Page  201
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to each of Sections 4.03 (b) and 4.04 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all 
further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
Page  202
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  203
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  204
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Sections 4.03 
and 4.04 of this Agreement;
Page  205
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
Page  206
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) and 4.02 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for 
the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  207
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
Page  208
6.
(a) If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  209
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  210
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  211
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Page  212
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  213
Page  214
Operation of Special Account
Page  215
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
Page  216
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  217
Page  218
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
Page  219
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
Page  220
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  221
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  222
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
Page  223
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  224
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Page  225
Page  226
Operation of Special Account
Page  227
When Withdrawals Are Made
Page  228
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  229
Page  230
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
Page  231
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by Project Management Reports.
Page  232
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,800,000. 
Page  233
SCHEDULE 2
Page  234
Description of the Project
Page  235
The objective of the Project is  to deepen the public sector reforms initiated 
under the PSMP by: (a) improving transparency and accountability in the allocation and 
use of public resources; (b) developing a budgetary planning and evaluation capacity 
in SEFIN and the Participating Secretariats; and (c) assisting the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the institutional restructuring within the telecommunications, ports 
and postal sectors and strengthening the technical capacity of the Regulatory 
Entities. 
Page  236
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  237
Part A:
Public Finance Management and Internal Control
Page  238
1.
Strengthening of SEFIN’s institutional capacity, through, inter alia:
Page  239
(a)
the design of a legal framework, including the issuance of appropriate 
regulations to govern the operation of SIAFI within the Borrower’s public sector;
Page  240
(b)
the completion of the organizational restructuring of SEFIN initiated 
under the PSMP;
Page  241
(c)
the improvement of SEFIN’s technical capacity to formulate, coordinate, 
execute and evaluate policies concerning public finances and the Borrower’s budget;
Page  242
(d)
the preparation and distribution of internal manuals within SEFIN, said 
manuals to include, inter alia, norms and procedures for the carrying out of SEFIN’s 
functions and responsibilities;
Page  243
(e)
the design and implementation of an internal performance benchmarking 
system that will enable SEFIN to, inter alia, measure operational efficiency and 
customer satisfaction and improve service quality standards;
Page  244
(f)
the design and implementation of a training program for SEFIN’s  
technical and professional personnel;
Page  245
(g)
the carrying out of a communications program to inform SEFIN’s staff and 
the Borrower’s population concerning the benefits of modernizing the management of 
public finances; and
Page  246
(h)
the improvement of the capacity of its UPEG to design and analyze 
policies and programs related to public investment and budgeting.
Page  247
2.
Completion of the design of SIAFI’s sub-systems
consisting of, inter alia:
Page  248
(i)
the adaptation of the accounting sub-system to enable the 
incorporation of information concerning the Borrower’s networth 
accounts and the management of non-financial assets in said 
sub-system;
Page  249
(ii)
the design of a sub-system to reconcile bank accounts in which 
public funds are deposited;
Page  250
(iii)
the design of a detailed plan of accounts to permit the 
administrative decentralization of budget execution;
Page  251
(iv)
the design of a treasury sub-system; and
Page  252
(v)
the integration of SIAFI’s accounting, budget, debt management 
and treasury sub-systems.
Page  253
3.
Implementation of SIAFI, including all its subsystems in all Secretariats, 
Participating Semi-Autonomous Institutions and Participating Autonomous Institutions.
Page  254
 4.
Design and implementation of a training program with respect to the 
implementation and use of SIAFI within the Secretariats, Participating Semi-Autonomous 
Institutions and  Participating Autonomous Institutions.
Page  255
Part B:
Reorganization of the CGR 
Page  256
1.
Carrying out of CGR’s administrative and technical reorganization. 
Page  257
2.
Carrying out of a program to promote the participation of civil society in the 
external control process carried out by CGR.
Page  258
3.
Design and implementation of a training program for CGR’s staff in public 
financial management, internal and external control and auditing and evaluation of 
entities which manage public resources.
Page  259
4.
Establishment of an information network within SIAFI to enable CGR to obtain 
information concerning the accounting practices, financial transactions and reporting 
requirements of the Secretariats, Semi-Autonomous Institutions and Autonomous 
Institutions.
Page  260
Part C:
Human Resource Management
Page  261
1.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to design and implement a human 
resources policy, through the provision of technical assistance and training, as the 
case may be, to: 
Page  262
(a)
further rationalize employment within the Secretariats, Semi-Autonomous 
Institutions and Autonomous Institutions; 
Page  263
(b)
prepare a proposal to enable special employment and salary regimes 
governing public servants to be consistent with the principles set forth in the Civil 
Service Law;
Page  264
(c)
prepare a bill of law to amend the Civil Service Law to implement said 
policy; and
Page  265
(d)
improve the administrative, operational and technical capacity of DGSC.
Page  266
2.
Design and implementation of SIARH, said system to include, inter alia: 
Page  267
(a)
a management and evaluation of a staff positions sub-system, a training 
sub-system, a career management sub-system and an evaluation of staff performance 
sub-system; and
Page  268
(b)
information concerning staff, staff positions, salary and benefits and 
organizational structure of all Secretariats and of those Semi-Autonomous Institutions 
and Autonomous Institutions in which said system will be implemented. 
Page  269
Part D:
Development of Performance Evaluation Capacity
Page  270
1.
Strengthening of the technical capacity of SPR’s performance evaluation unit to 
enable said unit to improve the planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity of the 
Participating Secretariats and their corresponding UPEGs.
Page  271
2.
(a) Carrying out of a diagnosis of the evaluation capacity of the Participating 
Secretariats; and (b) based on the findings of each said diagnosis, preparation of an 
action plan, acceptable to the Association, for each Participating Secretariat. 
Page  272
3.
Carrying out of a communication and dissemination program to: (a) promote the 
exchange of information
among the staff within the Secretariats and representatives of 
the private sector and civil society with respect to the monitoring and evaluation of 
the annual programs carried out by the Secretariats; (b) encourage public 
dissemination of the results of the evaluation concerning the Secretariats’ 
performance in respect of said annual programs; and (c) foster public awareness and 
participation in the evaluation of public sector performance.  
Page  273
Part E:
Public Procurement
Page  274
1.
Design and implementation of a training program on public procurement procedures 
for the staff of Participating Secretariats.
Page  275
2.
Design and installation of a public procurement information system within the 
Borrower’s public sector.
Page  276
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s regulatory framework governing public 
procurement, acceptable to the Association, through the provision of technical 
assistance and training required therefor.
Page  277
Part F:
Consolidation of Regulatory Reforms 
Page  278
1.
Carrying out of: 
Page  279
(a)
technical, financial and legal studies to support the institutional 
restructuring within the telecommunications sector; 
Page  280
(b)
a study of the ports sector to design a strategy to restructure the ports 
sector, said study to include the carrying out of an environmental assessment, 
acceptable to the Association, to assess the potential environmental impacts of any 
participation of the private sector in the ports sector; 
Page  281
(c)
a study of the postal sector to design a strategy to restructure the 
postal sector; and
Page  282
(d)
a program to strengthen CCP’s technical capacity to manage the Borrower’s 
privatization process, through the provision of technical assistance and training 
required therefor.
Page  283
2.
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the Regulatory Entities through the 
provision of technical assistance and training required therefor. 
Page  284
3.
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the entity referred to in paragraph 3 
(c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, through the provision of technical 
assistance and training required therefor.
Page  285
4.
Carrying out of a legal and technical review of the operations of the Regulatory 
Entities for the purpose of improving, if necessary, the efficiency of said entities.
Page  286
Part G:
Project Management
Page  287
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the PCU to manage and coordinate 
the carrying out of the Project.
Page  288
* * *
Page  289
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2004.
Page  290
SCHEDULE 3
Page  291
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  292
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Page  293
Part A:
General
Page  294
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Page  295
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".  
Page  296
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  297
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  298
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  299
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  300
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  301
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  302
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  303
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  304
(b)
Procurement of goods under this Part shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
Page  305
2.
Shopping
Page  306
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $340,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the option 
of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  307
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  308
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  309
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  310
2.
Prior Review
Page  311
(a)
With respect to each: (i) contract for goods to be procured under Part B 
of this Section; and (ii) contract for goods to be procured under Part C.1 of this 
Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  312
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured under 
Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
Page  313
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
Page  314
(ii)
prior to the execution of any said contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
Page  315
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  316
3.
Post Review
Page  317
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  318
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  319
Part A:
General
Page  320
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Page  321
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Page  322
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  323
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  324
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  325
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  326
Consultants’ services for the Project estimated to cost  $100,000 equivalent or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent,  may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  327
 2.
Individual Consultants
Page  328
Consultants’ services for the Project that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  329
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  330
1.
Selection Planning
Page  331
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  332
2.
Prior Review
Page  333
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  334
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, the terms of reference and short 
list of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
Page  335
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  336
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $30,000, the terms of 
reference and short list of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
Page  337
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions 
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of  Section I of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to: 
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
 have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
Section IV.
Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, any approval of bidding documents and contracts required under the laws of 
the Borrower shall be given: (a) only by: (i) CPME in respect of Parts A, C, D, E and 
G of the Project; and (ii) SEFIN in respect of Part F of the Project; and (b) only by 
CGR in respect of Part B of the Project.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of contracts or of 
consultant selection processes required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be 
given: (a) only by: (i) CPME in respect of Parts A, C, D, E and G of the Project;  and 
(ii) SEFIN in respect of Part F of the Project; and (b) only by CGR in respect of Part 
B of the Project.
Page  338
