                                             Honduras
                          Economic and Financial Management Project
                                        Credit No. 34149HO
                 Proposed Amendment       of the Development Credit Agreement


1       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed project restructuring of an existing credit to the Republic of Honduras in the amount of
SDR 14.4 Million, equivalent of US$ 19.0 Million, on standard IDA terms.

2       The purpose of this Memorandum is to recommend changes to the 3414-HO project
components and approval of the corresponding amendment to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). This credit-restructuring proposal attends to the Borrower's request
presented in the letter attached below.

3       After reviewing the Borrower's request and the project's status basedon the last two
supervision missions, I hereby recommend the approval of the project's restructuring and DCA
amendment based on the following considerations:

I       Background
  l




4       The 3414-HO DCA (Economic and Financial Management Project - EFMP) was signed
on October 24th, 2000 and became effective as of April 3rd, 2001..The closing date for the credit
is August 31st, 2004.

5       The development objective of the project is to deepenpublic sector reforms by: a)
improving transparency and accountability in the allocation and use of public resources; b)
developing budgetary planning and evaluation capacity in the Borrower's Secretariat of Finance
(Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas -SEFIN),       and other participating Secretariats;
and c) assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of the institutional restructuring within the
telecommunications, ports and postal sectors and strengthening the technical capacity of
regulatory entities.

6       To date, after almost two years of operation, the credit has disbursed around US$5.8
million out of a total US$19.0 million equivalent credit. The Presidential Commission for the
Modernization of the State (CPIVIE) is the primary entity responsible for the implementation of
the project; but Part B of the project (aimed at strengthening financial control systems) is carried
out by the Comptroller General Office, recently converted into the Superior Accounting Tribunal
(Tribunal Superior de Cuentas - TSC).

7       During the first two years of the project's implementation, the Borrower reached some
important achievements related to the project development objective. SEFIN has been
strengthened,both in its technical and organizational capacities, an Integrated Financial
Management Information System (SIAFI) had been developed and its implementation within the
public sector is in its early stages.Modem information technology instruments are being

installed in this Secretariat and there is an implementation plan that aims to complete this process
during the coming years.

8.        Control capacities within the public sector are also being strengthened, such as through
the recent creation of the TSC, which aims to implement a more independent and effective fiscal
control system. The project supported the government to prepare and present the TSC Law to
Congress. Since its approval, there has been a need to implement new regulatory provisions and
to strengthen the new entity's capacity.

9        The project has also supported the Borrower in the preparation of a new Civil Service
Law that will be presented to Congress shortly. The Borrower's Civil Service Directorate is
preparing an implementation plan, in order to develop the country's capacity on human resource
administration and to gradually introduce meritocracy in the civil service. Although major delays
have been observed in the implementation of this part of the project, the government has
reiterated its commitment to continue working towards achieving the objectives of this
component.

10        A new Public Procurement Law was prepared by the current administration and approved
     l


by Congress in 2002. A comprehensive plan is now about to be implemented in order to
strengthen public sector capacities in this areaand to provide more transparency in public
procurement activities. Given that the IDB prepared a larger and more complete project to
support the Borrower's efforts in this area,the Association's DCA will no longer provide
assistancein this component. Nevertheless, the Association's supervision activities would
continue to monitor progress made in reaching the project development objective.

11       Finally, regarding the public services reforrn component, the project supported the
Birrower's   efforts to provide better services in the telecommunications, ports and postal sectors.
Privatization strategies have been developed and they are being implemented. Regulatory entities
are about to be strengthened and a new regulatory system will be placed to promote
competitiveness within the reformed sectors. In addition to the areasincluded in the project
objectives, a new legal framework for water and sanitation services was approved.

12       The new administration that took power in early 2002 is committed to project
     l


implementation. However, it has requested some changes to the project structure in order to
reflect its new priorities and to introduce new activities in some of the components to better fit
the Borrower's program.

II 0     Reasons for the Change

13       As the new administration took over on 2002, ongoing projects were aligned to new
priirities and a renewed momentum was recovered for their implementation. In the case of the
EFMP, the Borrower paid special attention to complete those activities related to reforms of
infrastructure sectors, financial management systems and new institutional framework for
auditing and control systems.

14.     Despite the strong Borrower's commitment to the Human Resource Management reform,
minor achievements were reached in this area.The discussion of the Civil Service Law was
delayed and the need of other prior actions to implement such reform was identified. Within this
framework, the Borrower decided to carry out a comprehensive reengineering process of the
whole public sector, in order to identify individual reform strategies for each agency before a
broader civil service reform is implemented.

15.     Given the experience of implementing civil service reforms in changing environments,
the Borrower's proposal appearsquite reasonable and recommendable. In fact, it might reduce
the risk in a complex implementation process. In order to accommodate this proposal, the EF&IP
would need to seechanges in its scope by adding a new component related to this objective.

16.     Another areathat might need to be adjusted is related to the country's procurement
system reform, on which the project was supposedto provide specific technical assistance.
Certainly, addressing this issue would need much more effort than anticipated by the project.
Therefore, the Borrower, with the support of the Association, asked the IDB to develop a broader
TA operation in this area, which aims at the development of a long-term strategy to improve
transparency and efficiency in the public procurement system. As a result, EF1MI)proceeds will
no longer be necessaryfor this component and can be reallocated to reinforce other parts of the
project.

17      Finally, recent institutional adjustments within the Borrower that had an impact on the
agencies in charge of the project implementation create the need to update the institutional
arrangements in the project organization.

III 0   Objectives of the Amendment

18      The purpose of the proposed amendment is to introduce changesto some of the
components and to create new activities that would facilitate the accomplishment of the project
development objectives, considering those priorities stated by the new Honduran administration.

19      None of the core activities of the original project will be changed and the project
development objective will remain as stipulated in the PAD and approved by the Board in 2000.
However, new activities will facilitate both a more focused implementation of some of the
components, and the harmonization of the project objectives with government priorities.

20      This project amendment would update the project to fit the new country context. Further,
it would allow the Association to support the Borrower in accomplishing the fiduciary
requirements for the implementation of both the CAS and the Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC), which is currently being prepared. Moreover, new activities would facilitate the
implementation of the recommendations that would come from the ongoing CPAR and CFAA.

IV      Recommended Changes
    l




21      In order to reflect the necessary changesin the project activities requested by the
Borrower, the following amendments to the DCA would be needed:

    Project Component - Public ~un~gement and Internal Control (Part A)

22       No changes are expected in the substanceof this part of the project. The project will
continue to support the development and implementation of SIAFI within SEFIN and other line
Secretariats. However, in order to expedite the project implementation, SEFIN will be directly
in charge of executing this component.

    Project     Component     -    Reorg~niza~on      of   the   Comptroller     General's    Office
    (CGR)/Strengthening Financial Control Systems (Part B)

23       The project will continue to support the country's strategy to promote transparency and
accountability in the public sector and government affairs. However, as the CGR has been
substituted by the new TSC, the project will focus on strengthening the new agency's capacity.
Other activities would be maintained as originally designed.

24.      The executing unit for this component would be under the new TSC.

    Project Component - Human Resources ~~n~gernent (Part C)

25       Given the delays in the approval of the Civil Service Law, activities to establish a modern
human resources management policy, and design and implement a comprehensive human
resource management system (SIARH), would be rescheduled. As a consequence, according to
the Borrower's new strategy, fewer resources would be necessaryfor this component than
originally expected.

    Project Component - Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity (Part D)

26       The scope of this component will be reduced and its implementation strategy will be
changed. As the Borrower is currently promoting a comprehensive reengineering of the public
sector, a new performance evaluation system would be developed once the government
restructuring process is completed.

27*      The new evaluation system would be focused on results evaluation and would provide
efficiency and effectiveness indicators for public sector performance oversight. Civil society
engagement would also be promoted throtIgh this evaluation instrument, particularly in the areas
related with PRSP implementation. Costs would be less than the amounts originally allocated for
this part of the project.

    Project Component - Public Procurement (Replaced')

28       As the Borrower has agreed with IDB on a larger project for development and
implementation of a new Public Procurement policy and its instruments, the Association would
no longer support this component. In coordination with the IDB, the team would continue
supervising progress in this areain order to ensure that the project development objective is
properly accomplished. Nevertheless, it is not expected that this change would impact the

' See paragraph 32 below.

objective of the project, which aims at improving transparency and accountability in the
allocation and use of public resources.Other components and new activities will largely
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to achieve such development objective.

    Project Component - Consolidating Regulator        Reforms (Part F)

29      The project will continue supporting the Borrower's efforts to reform the
telecommunications, postal and ports sectors by introducing private participation and
strengthening capacities within the country's regulatory system.

30      As requestedby the Borrower and recommended by a recent Association mission to the
country, the component would include a new activity to encompass technical, financial and legal
studies to support the Borrower in the petroleum sector reform.

    Project Component - Project Management (Part G)

31.     This component would receive additional support, given the new activities that have been
introduced to the project and the need for the close supervision of its implementation.

    New Component - Administrative       Reform and Public Sector Reengirteering (New Part E)

32.     A new component would be included in the project to support the Borrower in carrying
out a comprehensive study for reengineering of the public sector and other administrative
reforms strategies, such as decentralization of public services, e-government and simplification
of administrative procedures.

33      These studies would provide the foundation for the overall public sector restructuring
efforts, and the government would need to addresssome of the recommendations before fully
implementing the new civil service legislation and the performance evaluation system.

34      The new component would also support the Borrower in the policy dialogue processby
   l


implementing a communication campaign to build public support for the reform. This activity
has been identified as critical for the successof similar reform processesin the Latin American
region.

35.     Resources would be reallocated from other components to finance these new activities.

36      As a result of the proposed changes,resources would be reallocated as shown in the
following table:

                                               HONDURAS
                               Economic and Financial Management    Project
                                       Credit Resource Reallocation
                                              (US$ Millions)

          Component                                                Original    Proposed
           Public Finance Management and Internal Control           6.61         5.97
           Reorganization  of the Comptroller General's Office
           (Currently Tribunal Supefkv de Cue&as)                   2.33         2.33
           Human Resource Management                                2.06         0.92
           Developing Performance Evaluation Capacity                1.72        0.28
           Public Procurement                                        1.20        0.00
           Consolidating Regulatory Reforms                         4.00         4.82
           Administrative Reform and Public Sector                  0.00         3.10
           Reengineering
           Project Management                                        1.08        1.58
           Total Project Costs                                      19.00        19.00


37      No reallocation of resources among DCA disbursement table categories is expected at
this time. As a new part of the project, the new component (Administrative Reform and Public
Sector Reengineering) would be financed with existing resourcesunder Categories (1) (a), (2) (a)
and (3) (a) in the Schedule 1 of the DCA.

V       New arrangements for project implementation
  l




38      Non-substantial changes are expected in the institutional framework for project
implementation. The Borrower already strengthened the central Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
by centralizing most of the project responsibilities under the CPME, a technical division
reporting to the Minister of the Presidency.

39      The secondary Project unit (the PU under the new TSC) would remain as an independent
Project unit. Part A of the project would be carried out directly through SEFIN; Part B would be
carried out through the PU under the responsibility of the new TSC; and Parts C, D, E, F and G
would be carried out through the PCU under the responsibility of CPME.

40.     To enable new institutional arrangements the Borrower has: (i) contracted or made
available qualified accountants to maintain records in the PCU and in SEFIN; (ii) contracted or
made available procurement assistancewith experience in IDA's procedures for the PU and
SEFIN; (iii) submitted the 2002 audit report; and (iv) prepared and presentedFinancial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) as of March 31,2003.

VI 0    Reexamination of Project Assumptions and Risks

41      Most assumptions identified in the Project Appraisal Document presentedto the Board of
Directors on August 15, 2000, remain the same although there have been project delays and a
change of administration. This is to be expected as we are dealing with long-term policies and
reforms that would impact the country's situation in a longer period.

42        It is remarkable that the approval of the new legal framework for the creation of the TSC,
    l


one of those critical assumptions, had been achieved during this period. Other legal reforms are
on their way to be approved as well, creating a more favorable environment for the project to
achieve its development objective.

43        Most of the risks reflecting those assumptions were rated as modest or substantial.
Looking to the progress to date, its fair to say that those risks remain and the project would need
continuous support and commitment from the government and the Association and IDB to
overcome such risks. Measures identified to minimize risks have been implemented and would
need to be strengthened.

44        Specifically, regarding the proposed new component, the project risk table would be
updated as follows:

          Assumption                     Risk              Risk Rating      Risk Minimization   Measure
Borrower continues its        Political and corporate           S         Public communication
commitment to implement       interests and pressures                     campaign would be launched in
reforms and to reduce current interfere with Borrower's                   order to gain public support for
expenditures and increase     decisions.                                  reforms.
efficiency through public
agencies restructuring.                                                   New civil service incentives
                                                                          would motivate public servants
                                                                          to support proposed changes.


The   World   Bank                                               1818   H Street N.W.        (202) 477-  1234
INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington,    DC.  20433   Cable  Address:  INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT     ASSOCIATION                      U.S.A.                      Cable  Address:   INDEVAS




                                                                                                                    $2003



        Lit. Arturo Alvarado
        Secretario
        Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
        Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
        Honduras



                      Re 0            Credit No. 3414-HO
                           l

                                      (Economic and Financial Management Project)
                                      First Amendment       to the Credit Agreement

        Dear Sir:

                 Please refer to the Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) between the
        Republic of Honduras (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
        Association), dated October 24,2000, with respect to the above-captioned Project.

                 Based on discussions with your representatives, we are pleased to inform you that
       the Association hereby proposes to amend the Credit Agreement to read as set forth in
       Attachment A to this letter (the specific changesmade in arriving at those amendedtexts are
       reflected for your convenience in Attachment B to this letter).

                 Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and
       dating the two originals of this letter and returning one fully signed original to us. The
       amendment set forth in this letter will become effective as of June 1, 2003, upon receipt by
       the Association of (i) one fully executed original of this letter and (ii) a copy of the
       Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement, together with
       legal opinions (from the Borrower and the TSC), satisfactory to the Association and issued
       by counsel acceptable to the Association, confirming that said Subsidiary Agreement has
       been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the party on
       whose behalf the opinion is issued and is legally binding upon such party in accordancewith
       the terms of such Subsidiary Agreement.


                                   Sincerely,


               INTERNATIONAL     DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                 JaneArm&age
                                    Director
                    Central America Country Management Unit
                     Latin America and the Caribbean Region


AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


BY..
      Authorized Representative

Name:


Date:

