Page  1
                                                                              June 26,1998
Lic. Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Minister
Ministry of Finance
Tercera Calle, 5ta Avenida
Tegucigalpa, DC
Honduras
Re:  Japanese Grant TF No. 025316
(Grant for Economic and Financial Management Project) 
Dear Madam:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding seven hundred and fifty thousand US dollars ($750,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Honduras (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreements below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this 
Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of 
this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
    Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date: June 26, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the proposed Economic and Financial 
Management Project.  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are 
as follows:
(a)
Preparation of technical assistance plans to:
(i)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance to formulate 
macroeconomic and sectoral reform strategies and policies;
(ii)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Central 
Bank to manage the country’s foreign and domestic debt;
(iii)
strengthen the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance to monitor 
and evaluate performance of public enterprises and other public agencies 
that rely on public transfers from the Central Government Budget;
(iv)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and other 
Ministries to analyze and adopt measures to strengthen the capacity of 
Local governments to mobilize revenues and manage investment 
Programs in line with the Government’s decentralization strategy; and
(v)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and other 
Ministries and public enterprises to prepare, implement and monitor    
Public investment programs.
Such plan will include inter
alia
,
the needs for training on macroeconomic and sectoral 
analyzes, formulation of macroeconomic and sectoral economic policies,             
identification of advisors needed to strengthen the capabilities of public agencies, and 
software and computer equipment needed to coordinate financial relations between the 
Central Government and public enterprises, formulate and evaluate their investment 
programs, and to establish a modern debt information and management system.
(b)
Identification of activities and policies needed to develop financial markets 
Page  3
including, inter alia:
(i)
assessment of conditions and reform options in rural credit markets;
(ii)
a study or studies to identify shortcomings in the legal, regulatory and 
institutional frameworks affecting the financial sector, including the 
preparation of improved norms, regulations or appropriate legislation 
to overcome the identified shortcomings; and
(iii)
analysis of policies to encourage the development of non-bank financial
intermediation and capital markets.
(c)
Carrying out studies or design of reform programs to:
(i)
improve the legal and regulatory framework for private sector 
development, with emphasis on competition legislation, appropriate 
incentives framework, and the streamlining of bureaucratic barriers to 
increased production and investment; and 
`
(ii)
analysis of the flexibility of labor markets and the need for reforms, 
including the effectiveness of labor training programs;
(d)
Provision of advice for improving incentives and the contracting of infrastructure 
services to the private sector.
(e)
Carrying out of:
(i)
seminars, workshops and related consensus-building activities for 
legislators, policy makers, private sector, stakeholders and other 
representatives of civil society who would have an interest or be 
affected by the activities referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d); 
including, inter
alia
, the role of the state, development of financial and 
capital markets, economic competitiveness, good governance and 
transparency, and poverty alleviation; and
(ii)
study tours for staff of the Recipient’s Ministries and other agencies, as 
well as representatives of the legislative and judicial branches, the 
private sector, labor groups, and other stakeholders who would benefit 
from the reform experience of other countries.
2.
(a)  The Grant shall be used to finance consultant’s services, consultation meetings,  seminars, 
workshops, training and study tours required for the Activities.
Page  4
(b)  For purposes of this paragraph, the terms “consultation meetings, seminars, workshops, 
training and study tours” means the cost of training materials, translation and/or interpretation services, 
rental of facilities and equipment, per diem and air travel of participants, course fees, dissemination of 
results and other costs related to the carrying out of the meetings, seminars, workshops, training and 
study tours mentioned in paragraph 1 (e) of this Letter Agreement.
3.
 IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall                                                                     
cooperate with IDA to extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, 
except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 hereof, the Recipient shall, through                 
its Ministry of Finance, assist IDA in the overall coordination of the meetings, workshops, 
seminars and study tours referred to in paragraph 1 (e) of this Letter Agreement, including inter alia 
selection of participants, site, logistics and dissemination of results thereof.
(b) It is expected that the activities will be completed by August 31, 2000.  After that date, IDA may at 
any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.         The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the consultants) required to assist in  the 
carrying out of the activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.         The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the            
territory of, Honduras on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.      The Recipient may at any time request IDA writing to terminate the Activities.  Whether or                    
not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
Page  5
8.         IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
