OFF C AL
DO CUMIV0EN TSR
LOAN NUMBER 3869 HR
Loan Agreement
(Highway Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated      f Z/             , 1995


﻿LOAN NO. 3869 HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     "fiP/         r, 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA    (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an
amount equivalent to $47,500,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EBRD; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Coniitions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have
arisen   under    which   any    further
withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement."


﻿2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "HC" means Croatian Roads Authority, the agency respon-
sible for construction and maintenance of all public interurban
roads and controlled by the Borrower, or any legal successor
thereof.
(b)   "HZ" means Crcatian Railways, an independent legal
entity established pursuant to the Iaw on Railways No. 53/94, dated
July 8, 1994.
(c)  "1MvATC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Maritime
Affairs, Transport and Communications.
(d)   "PMS" means the Pavement Management System, a system
designed to optimize resources for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation (including reinforcement) particularly of pavements,
and to generate the corresponding budgets and work programs.
(e)   "Road Expenditure Program" means a three-year (1995-
1997) program for road works in Croatia approved by the Borrower on
December 20, 1994, as it may be changed from tiine to time.
(f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿3
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a     six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in   Section  2.06   of  this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the


﻿4
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowing determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A, C and D of the
Project through HC and Parts B, E and F through MMATC, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of HC and the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable t6 the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably vequest.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain   or  cause  to   be  maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records   and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿7
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.. Not later than October 31 of each year during
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   furnish to the Bank a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Road Expenditure Program (hereinafter in this
Section referred to as "Program") for the preceding year and
proposed revisions thereof for the next calendar year;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
the proposals and thereafter introduce any revisions so that the
Program is satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. Not later than October 31 of each year during
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out feasibility
studies of roadwork investments to be financed under the Project in
accordance with methods of economic analysis satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not undertake any roadwork
investments estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more
during the execution of the Project, unless the economic rate of
return for such investment estimated on the basis of an economic
analysis carried out in accordance with a methodology satisfactory
to the Bank, is greater than 12%.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause HC to submit to the
Bank, not later than March 1 of each year during execution of the
Project, HC's investment program, after being approved by the
Borrower, for the following calendar year which shall reflect the


﻿8
allocated budgetary resources required for implementation of such
program.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the maximum level of the Borrower's
contributions to HZ shall not exceed the equivalent of: (i)
$105,000,000 plus debt service in 1995; (ii) $90,000,000 plus debt
service in 1996; and $75,000,000 plus debt service in 1997.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(1)   The term "debt service" means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of,
and interest and other charges on, debt;
(2)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of HZ maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(b)   cause HZ to maintain the level of payables, in real
terms, including debts to the social welfare funds and suppliers, at
the level not greater than as of June 30, 1994.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause HZ to furnish to the
Bank its financial statements as soon as available, but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each Semester.
For the purpose of this Section, "Semester" means the first
six months or the second six months of a calendar year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
(a)   The EBRD loan shall have failed to become effective by
June 1, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿9
(b)   (1)   Subject to paragraph (b) (2) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(2)    Paragraph (b) (1) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Katan-i-eva 5
41000 Zagreb, Croatia
Telex:
862-21215
862-21833
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD              248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.       82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
B y /g eoqLo              Aek'
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By AA)ti7P-/e                Wfl&J/2b
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Dollar             to be
Category               Ecuivalent)         Financed
(1)   Civil works              47,100,000      60%
(2)   Goods                    24,500,000      100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 60%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)   Consultants'              3,000,000      100%
services and
training
(4)   Unallocated               5,400,000
TOTAL                     80,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
31, 1994.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for works under contracts not exceeding $1,500,000
equivalent, and for goods under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support and expedite the
modernization and transformation of the transport sector with
special emphasis on the main road network and the administration
responsible for it, HC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Expenditure Program
Carrying out of a three-year (1995-1997) program under the
Road Expenditure Program including road construction, pavement
strengthening, rehabilitation and resurfacing, installation of the
PMS and provision of highway maintenance equipment, on the road
sections selected in accordance with the criteria acceptable to the
Bank.
Part B:     Technical Assistance to HZ
Carrying out of a review of all aspects of HZ operations with
a view to provide recommendations for improvement thereof.
Part C:     Technical Assistance to HC
Provision of consultants' services and training to HC
technical personnel in modernizing road maintenance techniques,
including pavement and bridge management systems.
Part D:     Implementation of PMS
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training
required for installation of the PMS.
Part E:     Riieka Port Study
Carrying out a study to draw up a master plan and associated
investment plan, and to propose an administrative/managerial
structure for Rijeka port.


﻿15
Part F:     Road Safety Study
Carrying out a study to review an existing road safety plan
and to prepare recommendations for improvement thereof.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payrment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1999                   1,925,000
June 15, 2000                       1,995,000
December 15, 2000                   2,065,000
June 15, 2001                       2,135,000
December 15, 2001                   2,210,000
June 15, 2002                       2,290,000
December 15, 2002                   2,370,000
June 15, 2003                       2,455,000
December 15, 2003                   2,545,000
June 15, 2004                       2,635,000
December 15, 2004                   2,725,000
June 15, 2005                       2,825,000
December 15, 2005                   2,925,000
June 15, 2006                       3,025,000
December 15, 2006                   3,135,000
June 15, 2007                       3,245,000
December 15, 2007                   3,360,000
June 15, 2008                       3,480,000
December 15, 2008                   3,605,000
June 15, 2009                       3,730,000
December 15, 2009                   3,860,000
June 15, 2010                       4,000,000
December 15, 2010                   4,140,000
June 15, 2011                       4,290,000
December 15, 2011                   4,440,000
June 15, 2012                       4,590,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment             Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)  When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D. 2
(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Contracts  for works which    include  individual  sections
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more per contract
shall be awarded under procedures set forth in this Part A.


﻿19
3.    Bidders for works packages shall be prequalified as provided
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
4.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more for works, and the equivalent of $300,000 or more
for goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Croatia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods which the Bank agrees of
specialized nature and for which there is limited number of
suppliers, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and
in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less .per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$40,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Spare parts for equipment which the Bank agrees need to be
compatible with other installed equipment, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $35,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿20
2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and each
contract for works awarded under procedures set forth in Parts A.1
and C, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Emplovment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'


﻿21
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure
that the road vehicle fuel tax shall be maintained at least at the
June 1994 level in real terms.
2.    The Borrower shall cause HC to submit for the Bank's review,
not later than July 1, 1995 an action plan which shall cover
reorganization and improvement of its maintenance operations,
including the transfer of road construction activities to
independent construction companies.
3.    Upon carrying out the studies referred to in Parts B, E and F
of the Project, but in any case not later than December 31, 1995 for
Part F and June 30, 1996 for Parts B and E, the Borrower shall
review with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of said
studies and prepare implementation plans for each one of them,
taking into consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
4.    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to cause (a)
the lead contents of gasoline to be reduced to no more than 0.4% by
weight by not later than June 30, 1996; and (b) unleaded gasoline to
continue to be widely available at a price equal to or less than
leaded gasoline.
5.    The Borrower shall cause HC to make PMS fully operational no
later than September 30, 1997, and to ensure that, starting January
1, 1998, the HC's budget for highway rehabilitation and resurfacing
and routine maintenance shall be*prepared and monitored through the
systematic use of PMS.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿24
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account; or


﻿25
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the LAoan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.


﻿26
(d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


