Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7514 EGT 
 (Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Airports Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 27, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7514 EGT 
(Amendment) 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2008 between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank have entered into a Loan Agreement 
(Loan Number 7222 EGT) (Airports Development Project), dated March 31, 2004  (the 
Loan Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the 
Airports Development Project, as described in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement (the 
Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Loan Agreement by an amount equal to forty million United States dollars 
 
(US$40,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. (a) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated 
 
September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement 
and are applicable to the Initial Loan. 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 22 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows: 
 
“22. “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread of 0.5%
in respect of 
the initial Loan Currency, provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount of the Initial Loan, such fixed 
Page  3
-
2
-
spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(c) 
The “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 
2008) (the “2008 General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Amending Agreement and are applicable to the Additional Loan.” 
 
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended by deleting the 
“and” at the end of Subsection (p), substituting “; and” for “;” at the end of Subsection 
(q), substituting “.” at the end of subsection (q) for “; and” and adding a new Subsection 
(r) as follows: 
 
“(r) 
“Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the 
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, dated March 31, 2004.” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement an amount of three hundred 
and seventy five million United States dollars (US$375,000,000) as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement (the 
Loan); which includes: (a) an original amount equal to three hundred thirty five 
million Dollars (US$335,000,000) (the Initial Loan); and (b) an additional 
amount equal to forty million Dollars (US$40,000,000) (the Additional Loan).” 
 
Section 1.04. Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Initial Loan.  Such fee shall be payable 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.  The Front-end Fee payable 
by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the 
Additional Loan amount.”
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Initial Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate 
equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from 
the date on which such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including the 
fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one 
percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.” 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.06. Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.06. For the purpose of: (A) the Initial Loan, the Borrower 
shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Initial Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate as defined in paragraph 47 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Initial Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest 
on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions; and (B) the Additional Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower on the principal amount of the Additional Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Additional Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Additional 
Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the 2008 General Conditions.  For purposes of paragraph 43 of the 2008 
General Conditions, the “Fixed Spread” for the initial Additional Loan currency 
in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C time, one calendar day prior to the date 
of the Amending Agreement is 0.05%.” 
 
Section 1.07. Paragraph 1 and the Table in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is 
hereby revised as indicated in the Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 1.08. Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is hereby revised as indicated in 
the Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 1.09. All other provisions of the Loan Agreement, including Schedules 2 
and 4 shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that: (a) the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental actions; and (b) an amended 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, covering the Additional Loan amount of US$40,000,000, 
has been executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and EHCAAN. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
Page  5
-
4
-
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with Section 9.02 of the General Conditions 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that: (a) this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (b) the Agreement 
Amending Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed, executed and delivered by the 
Borrower and EHCAAN.  
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Bank shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Bank establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this 
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Loan 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By  /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
ANNEX 1 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Initial Loan and Additional Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Loan and Additional Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Initial Loan and Additional Loan to each Category, and the percentages of expenditures 
for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Revised 
Initial Loan 
Allocation
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
Allocation  of 
Additional Loan 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Works under: 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
 
(a)  Part A of the 
 
Project 
 
287,879,000 
 
40,000,000 
 
(b)  Part B of the  
 
Project 
 
42,671,000 
 
0
(2)  Goods under Part 
C
of
the Project 
 
2,477,000 
 
0
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); and 
85% of other items 
procured locally 
 
(3)  Consulta
nts’ 
services under 
Part C of the 
Project 
 
1,973,000 
 
0
85%
Page  8
-
7
-
Category
Revised 
Initial Loan 
Allocation
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
Allocation  of 
Additional Loan 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(4) Premia for 
Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of the 
Loan Agreement 
(5)  Unallocated 
 
0
0
TOTAL 
 
335,000,000
40,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 1.04 of this Agreement.
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing 
less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ANNEX 2 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
A. 
Amortization Schedule for the Initial Loan 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Initial Loan and 
the percentage of the total principal amount of the Initial Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Initial Loan shall have been 
fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Initial 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Initial Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each 
Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct 
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 1 and August 1 
Beginning August 1, 2009 
through August 1, 2020 
 
4.17% 
On February 1, 2021
 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Initial Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Initial Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Initial Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Page  10
-
9
-
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Initial Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved 
Currency that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the 
Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable 
by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Initial Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time shall be denominated in more than one Initial Loan Currency, the provisions of 
this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Initial Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  11
-
10 
-
B. 
Amortization Schedule for the Additional Loan 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Additional 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Additional Loan payable on 
each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Additional 
Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal 
amount of the Additional Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment 
Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Additional Loan 
Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each 
Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct 
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 1 and August 1 
Beginning August 1, 2013 
through February 1, 2038 
2.00% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Additional Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Additional Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Additional Loan have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Additional Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Additional Loan withdrawn within two calendar months 
prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and 
Page  12
-
11 
-
shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Additional Loan Balance to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Additional Loan Balance is denominated in more than one 
Additional Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the 
amount denominated in each Additional Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
