Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB125 
Project Name 
EG-AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Aviation (100%) 
Project ID 
P082914 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[X] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 4, 2003 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
December 29, 2003 
Date of Board Approval 
March 30, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In the early 1990s, Egypt began moving away from central planning and downsizing its massive 
public sector.  Between 1995 and 1999, the economy responded to the new market-oriented 
approaches and growth increased to around five percent per annum (p.a.).  In most recent years, 
however, both internal and external shocks have combined to slow growth to around three 
percent p.a. To promote development and curb unemployment, faster growth is needed.  To that 
end, the Government of Egypt (GOE) policy is focused on promoting private sector 
development, attracting more foreign direct investment and maximizing foreign exchange 
earnings from tourism and agriculture.  Air transport sector has a key role to play that is currently 
undermined by four issues. 
 
Airport Capacity Bottlenecks
.  Close to 50 percent of Egypt’s passenger traffic is handled at 
Cairo International Airport (CAI).  In 2000, passenger traffic peaked at 8.9 million and has since 
remained around 8.4 million.  With a maximum rated capacity of nine million passengers, CAI 
could not absorb additional traffic without a rapid deterioration of service standards.  This is 
especially critical since 76 percent of passengers are international.  Cargo traffic, which is almost 
entirely concentrated at CAI, has stagnated at around 200,000 tons p.a. since 1999. For both 
traffic, terminal and apron capacity constraints did influence traffic growth in addition to external 
factors (e.g., foreign charter flights are no longer permitted to fly to CAI due to this lack of 
capacity).  In contrast, the country’s other international airports, which primarily serve tourism, 
experienced average growth rates of nearly 13 percent p.a. between 1993 and 2002, processing a 
total of 8.9 million passengers in 2002.  Of these airports, Sharm El Sheikh (SSH) grew the 
fastest, and now handles the second largest tourist traffic in Egypt. Airport capacity nationwide is 
increasingly short of needs and the GOE is giving a high priority to the airport extension 
program. 
 
An Incomplete Governance Framework
.  Sweeping sector reforms in the civil aviation sector 
began in 2001 and are ongoing.  The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MCA) was created in 2002 and 
entrusted with overall responsibility for the country’s airports and civil aviation matters.  MCA is 
Page  2
 
 
overseeing Egypt Air and its subsidiaries, as well as the Egyptian Holding Company for Airports 
and Air Navigation (EHCAAN), which owns four affiliate companies, including the: (i) Cairo 
Airport Company (CAC) created in 2002; (ii) Egyptian Airport Company (EAC) created in 2001 
to manage and develop other public airports; (iii) National Air Navigation Services Company; 
and (iv) Aviation Information Technology Company. The GOE’s stated policy is to 
commercialize the public enterprises operating in the sector through the EHCAAN as a first step 
toward privatization.  Law No. 3 of 1997 made private airport concessions possible, and Law 
No. 93 of 2003 granted MCA substantial pricing freedom subject to prior consultation with a 
Higher Council for the Pricing of Services.  The thrust of reforms is sound, but implementation 
issues must be addressed. 
 
\01fi
The Airport Concession Law lacks detailed regulations to be truly effective in 
raising private capital for airport development. Too concise, it gives force to older 
laws and the Civil Code on matters that need special treatment, such as tendering, 
asset ownership, and assignment of rights to lenders. As a result, no more than 
two small airport concessions materialized to date (Marsa Alem; El Alamin).  
\01fi
 Egypt Air (EA) is the dominant user of CAI, not only as an airline but as a 
service provider and concession holder (from ground-handling services at the 
terminal to duty-free shops and hotels).  CAC earns low returns on assets at EA’s 
disposal, and its corporate strategy used to be bent in favor of EA’s own interest. 
 
\01fi
CAC and EAC were granted sovereign rights that contradict the 
commercialization objective and compromise the notion that a level-playing field 
must exist between private and public airport operators, including private 
concessions outside EHCAAN.  
\01fi
Management information systems do not generate enough of the financial and 
operational data that would make the airport sector easier to assess thereby 
enouraging private sector investments in new facilities.   
 
Narrow Revenue Base
.  Except for CAI, airports were not profitable in the 1990s, and untargeted 
cross-subsidization was the norm.  Even CAI’s positive financial picture partly stemmed from 
deferment of  capital investments. Airport tariffs in Egypt were, and remain, low by international 
standards, and there was no pricing freedom. However, based on Law No. 93 of 2003, action is 
pending on tariff alignment with regional market levels that would make the project financially 
viable. CAC will still need to strengthen marketing of airport-based services and facilities in 
order to make commercial revenues commensurate with its large airport domain. 
 
Regulated Air Transport Market
.  If liberalization is making progress for international flights 
between Egypt, Africa and the Arab countries, constraining Air Service Agreements (ASA) still 
regulate air transport relations with Europe and the other major markets.  Should Egypt Air 
become more competitive, liberalization of these key routes would also be possible, and 
prospects of CAI becoming a regional hub would brighten.  Law No. 93 of 2003 still contains 
provisions constraining traffic growth like the financial compensation payable by foreign airlines 
to substitute their capacity for Egypt Air’s when the latters are short of their quotas. 
 
 
Page  3
 
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The key development objectives of the Airports Development Project, which are closely 
interrelated, are to: 
 
\01fi
eliminate capacity bottlenecks to traffic growth, particularly that of tourists and 
associated foreign exchange earnings; 
\01fi
raise CAI and SSH service quality at international best practice standards; and 
\01fi
promote efficient private participation in airport management and airport service delivery 
in a more competitive market.   
 
The project would also contribute to three of the Government’s higher level objectives: 
 
\01fi
Employment generation
.  Although direct employment is not expected to rise given 
the current level of excess staffing (around 2,150 passengers per staff for CAC), 
indirect employment opportunities would be created with the project through 
expanding airport traffic.  In 1999, one feasibility study estimated that indirect 
employment within CAI’s area of influence amounted to 185,000 jobs, which, the 
study went on to surmise, could grow to nearly 350,000 by 2020. 
\01fi
Increasing foreign exchange earnings
.  Tourism is one of Egypt’s largest producers 
of foreign exchange.  International tourism injected the equivalent of US$4.3 billion 
into the economy in 2000, or an average of US$780 per tourist, which was up from 
US$3.0 billion in 1996.  Most tourists come from overseas and airports are their 
primary points of entry. 
\01fi
Developing agricultural exports
.  Air cargo traffic has been concentrated on CAI, 
which has handled some 200,000 tons per year since 1998.  Two-thirds of cargo 
traffic is exports, most of which is perishable.  Saturated capacities at CAI combined 
with operational inefficiencies help explain a good part of the stagnated growth.  A 
2001 study assessed the value of Egypt’s agricultural exports at the equivalent of 
US$260 million.  Since 80 percent of air cargo is carried by passenger planes, the 
project would have a direct impact.  Although not part of the project, the 
reorganization and development of air cargo facilities at CAI under a management 
contract will be implemented in parallel by the GOE.  Capacity bottlenecks to cargo 
expansion will be removed and agriculture production and employment given a boost. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
In a deteriorating business climate for infrastructure concessions worldwide, private financing 
for airport development in Egypt is unlikely in the near future.  Airport investments are overdue, 
and public financing for the proposed new terminals is a valid alternative provided steps are 
taken to remove obstacles to private participation in airport infrastructure.  Bank involvement 
will help ensure that necessary actions are taken, including those designed to develop 
competition within and between airports through signing of management contracts with private 
firms.  In addition, the Bank will: 
Page  4
 
 
 
\01fi
provide experience in financing large and complex transport infrastructure projects, 
and knowledge of associated development issues; 
\01fi
ensure proper consideration of environmental and social issues; 
\01fi
enhance chances of attracting high quality bids for private management contracts 
through transparent and predictable tendering, something highly valued by the GOE; 
and 
\01fi
provide ad-hoc technical expertise when needed, as exemplified by the Bank’s 
assistance already extended in relation to managing air cargo facilities at CAI. 
 
4. Description 
 
The scope of the proposed Airports Development Project (ADP) includes constructing new 
terminals at Cairo International Airport (TB3) and Sharm El Sheikh Airport, which upon 
completion will be managed by private operators, and technical assistance to support gradual 
liberalization of the sector.  The Project’s overall cost is estimated to be US$561.3 million. 
 
Component 1, the proposed new TB3 terminal, will consist of: (i) one new terminal building; (ii) 
one concourse; (iii) two fingers; (iv) three skyways - two connecting the concourse with each 
finger, and one connecting Terminal 2 with TB3; and (v) electromechanical systems and 
equipment.  The new terminal will consist of three levels and have a built-up area of 164,000 
square meters. 
 
Component 2, the new terminal building at Sharm El Sheikh Airport, will consist of: (i) one new 
terminal building; and (ii) electromechanical systems and equipment.  Upon completion, both 
terminals will be managed by private operators. 
 
Component 3, Technical Assistance, consists of support to: (i) prepare a national airport master 
plan; (ii) develop a plan to gradually liberalize air transport in Egypt; (iii) devise a national 
strategy for developing air cargo; (iv) establish Environmental Units at CAC and EAC; and (v) 
strengthen airport management capacity. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source ($mil.) 
Borrower 226.3 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
335.0 
 Total:
561.3561.
3 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Project will be implemented starting June 2004 and June 2008. December 31, 2008 is the 
scheduled loan closing date.  EHCAAN will be the implementing agency.  EHCAAN and its 
affiliates, particularly, CAC and EAC will be responsible for implementing this Project. 
Page  5
 
 
 
A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established within the EHCAAN to supervise, 
coordinate and monitor overall implementation of the Project.  Its chief functions will be to 
program, collect information and data, monitor and evaluate progress, coordinate and advise on 
all fiduciary matters, and prepare reports.  The PMU will coordinate and supervise project 
implementation, and authorize and work with its affiliates and the Ministry of Civil Aviation to 
carry out each of the project’s components. 
 
A Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by EHCAAN, will be set up to follow project 
implementation and to oversee the work of the PMU. Representatives will include key 
stakeholders in the project, such as from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Finance, 
and EHCAAN’s affiliates. 
 
Environmental Units will also be established at CAC and EAC to monitor implementation of the 
Environmental Management Plan and maintain corresponding indicators.  Technical assistance 
to development of these units will be financed under the project. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Borrower’s commitment to project objectives is strong and evidenced by written statements 
and actions, including the hiring of renowned international consulting firms to serve as Project 
Manager and Financial Advisor to the Borrower, and ensure that the project is delivered in a 
cost-effective and timely manner.  Other conditions for sustainability include: 
 
\01fi
Good airport preventive and corrective maintenance
, which will be provided for in the 
private management contracts.  CAC and EAC will build their own capacities to ensure 
that private management companies perform well. 
\01fi
Cost and Market-based airport pricing
.  The pricing freedom introduced by Law No. 93 
will allow for automatic pricing adjustments. 
\01fi
Competition in and for the airport service market
.  At present, competition is subdued. 
Technical assistance and capacity building under the project will broaden its scope and 
strengthen the airport companies’ monitoring of performance by private operators and 
lessees. 
\01fi
Air transport liberalization
 - an “Open Skies” policy will help CAI grow into an 
international hub, and the Government supports its gradual implementation. 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The project design draws lessons learned from past operations in transport, namely: 
 
\01fi
A strong commitment from counterpart authorities is key to consistent project 
implementation and achievement of project development objectives.  
\01fi
Completion of key steps early on improves quality at entry and reduces uncertainty.   
\01fi
Smaller, but practical steps with a good probability of success are more effective in 
bringing market liberalization to fruition than would aggressive and riskier actions that 
could only stir up opposition.  
Page  6
 
 
\01fi
Complex operations require close interaction between the Bank and a strong project team 
on the Borrower’s side.   
 
The quality of monitoring and reporting systems is always essential, and the work already carried 
out by EHCAAN in this area, plus their commitment to set up dedicated task forces, should 
produce good and timely reporting. The PMU arrangements, including the development of a 
financial management system, supports the prospects for good implementation. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
X 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
 X 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
 X 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
 X 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
 X 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
 X 
 
10. Contact 
Name: Michel Bellier 
Title: 
Lead Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 
458-5382 
Fax: (202) 
477-1993 
Email: 
Mbellier@worldbank.org
 
 
Implementing Agency: 
Egyptian Holding Company for Airports and Air Navigation 
Cairo, Egypt 
Tel: (20-2) 635-2442 
Fax: (20-2) 635-0933 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on any
 
disputed areas.
 
Page  7
 
 
 
Elena Gagieva 
P:\EGYPT\IF\82914\APPR\PID (02-02-2004).doc 
3/12/2004 9:54 AM
 
