Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7222 - EGT 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Airports Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
EGYPTIAN HOLDING COMPANY FOR AIRPORTS 
AND AIR NAVIGATION 
 
Dated March 31, 2004  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7222 -EGT 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the EGYPTIAN 
HOLDING COMPANY FOR AIRPORTS AND AIR NAVIGATION (EHCAAN). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Arab 
Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of three hundred thirty five million United States dollars 
(US$335,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that EHCAAN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EHCAAN the proceeds of the Loan shall be on-lent to EHCAAN
 
on
the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS EHCAAN, in consideration of the Borrower’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Bank, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) EHCAAN declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, management and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Page  4
2
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and EHCAAN shall otherwise agree, EHCAAN shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, the Environmental Management Plans and the PIP. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) EHCAAN shall carry out the obligations set forth in  
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, EHCAAN shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and EHCAAN, a plan designated to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
EHCAAN on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. EHCAAN shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EHCAAN shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) EHCAAN shall exchange views with the Bank with regard to 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, as the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(b) 
EHCAAN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EHCAAN of its obligations under this 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Page  5
3
Management and Operations of EHCAAN 
 
Section 3.01. EHCAAN shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, 
management and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. EHCAAN shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, environmental, financial, management and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. EHCAAN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  EHCAAN shall establish no later than the Effective Date and 
thereafter maintain a Project financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) EHCAAN 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period proposed by EHCAAN and
 
agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period proposed by EHCAAN and
 
agreed to by the Bank),  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or such other period 
proposed by EHCAAN and
 
agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  6
4
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon EHCAAN’s reporting obligations set 
out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, EHCAAN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the 
period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. EHCAAN shall cause CAC and EAC to duly appoint by no later 
than September 30, 2004, two financial officers with qualifications, experience and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 4.04. EHCAAN shall no later than March 31, 2007 upgrade its financial 
management system and cause CAC and EAC to upgrade their respective financial 
management systems, in accordance with International Accounting Standards. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Page  7
5
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EHCAAN 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EHCAAN thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For EHCAAN: 
 
EGYPTIAN HOLDING COMPANY FOR  
Page  8
6
AIRPORTS AND AIR NAVIGATION 
Cairo Airport Road, beside the Ministry of Civil Aviation 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(202) 635 0933
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EHCAAN, or by 
EHCAAN on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Chairman, or such other person or persons as said Chairman shall 
designate in writing, and EHCAAN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  9
7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
         /s/ 
Christiaan 
J. 
Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
EGYPTIAN HOLDING COMPANY FOR  
AIRPORTS AND AIR NAVIGATION
 
By 
 
 
         /s/ 
Ibrahim 
Ahmed 
Manna 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
8
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
3. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Pre-qualification
Bidders for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
 
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
Page  11
9
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works; and (ii) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 under Part C of this Section above and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
EHCAAN shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, EHCAAN
 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
Page  12
10
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers,” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Page  13
11
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during 
the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  14
12
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
EHCAAN shall establish no later than June 1, 2004 and thereafter maintain a 
Steering Committee throughout the duration of the Project, with membership and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  The Steering Committee shall, 
inter alia
,
have 
responsibility for Project oversight and coordination. 
 
2. 
EHCAAN shall appoint the head of the PMU by no later than May 31, 2004 and 
maintain the PMU throughout the duration of the Project with organization, staffing and 
terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank.  EHCAAN shall cause the PMU 
to: (a) maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the overall management, 
coordination and supervision of the Project implementation in accordance with the PIP 
and the Environmental Management Plans; (b) operate the Project financial management 
system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (c) gather data to maintain Project 
indicators; (d) coordinate the procurement and disbursement process; and (e) prepare and 
submit progress reports and financial monitoring reports. 
 
3. 
For the purpose of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, EHCAAN shall by
 
no later than June 30, 2004,
 
enter into appropriate contractual arrangements, satisfactory 
to the Bank with: (a) CAC (the CAC Agreement); and (b) EAC (the EAC Agreement), 
respectively.  The said agreements shall stipulate, 
inter alia
,
that: (a) CAC and EAC 
shall, on behalf of EHCAAN, implement Parts A and B of the Project, respectively;  
(b) to this end, CAC and EAC shall: (i) appoint a procurement officer with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for the duration of the Project, 
to coordinate with the PMU at EHCAAN and to ensure that the procurement of works 
under Parts A and B of the Project is conducted as per the Bank’s Procurement 
Guidelines and Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (ii) enter into contracts with 
contractors; (iii) prepare, maintain and submit monthly, quarterly, and annual progress 
reports to EHCAAN and the PMU; (iv) prepare annual financial statements in accordance 
with International Accounting Standards; (v) have their respective accounts audited on an 
annual basis by independent auditors in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing; (vi) submit annual audit reports to EHCAAN, six months from the end of each 
Fiscal Year; (vii) appoint a financial officer with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, for the duration of the Project, to coordinate with the 
PMU at EHCAAN and to ensure that documents, reports and information are promptly 
provided to EHCAAN and the PMU; (viii) carry out their activities and obligations in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, accounting and environmental 
standards;
 
(ix) for the duration of the Project, make available to EHCAAN, the auditors 
of EHCAAN and the Project auditors referred to in Section 4.01. of the Project 
Agreement all documents, books, and records
 
pertaining to
 
the Project activities; (x) 
respond to queries, report findings and comments by EHCAAN, auditors of EHCAAN 
Page  15
13
and the Project auditors referred to in Section 4.01. of the Project Agreement; and (xi) 
implement their respective parts of the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plans and the PIP; and (c) EHCAAN shall, on behalf of CAC and EAC, 
arrange to pay the said contractors respectively. 
 
4. 
EHCAAN shall: (a) no later than July 1, 2004, establish and thereafter maintain 
an environmental management unit within CAC; and (b) no later than August 1, 2004, 
establish and thereafter maintain an environmental management unit within EAC. The 
said environmental management units shall
 
oversee, monitor and participate in the 
implementation of the EMPs and provide, as part of the Project progress reports and mid-
term review referred to in paragraph B of this Schedule, noise and air quality monitoring 
data and appropriate mitigating measures in accordance with the EMPs. 
 
5. 
EHCAAN shall ensure that: (a) no activity shall be undertaken under the Project 
involving the involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement of occupants or 
owners of such land; and (b) any such land required for the purposes of the Project shall 
be acquired on a voluntary basis. 
 
6. 
EHCAAN shall prepare and submit to the Bank, procurement reports in 
accordance with the PIP. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
EHCAAN shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than twenty one (21) days after the end of the first month after the 
Effective Date, a monthly summary report on the progress of works under Part A and B 
of the Project; 
 
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, a quarterly report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report; 
 
(d) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, prior to August 15 of each year, an annual consolidated report
 
integrating the 
results of the quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the year preceding the date of said 
Page  16
14
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; 
 
(e) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(f) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
