Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7222 - EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Airports Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Page  2
Dated March 31, 2004 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7222 -EGT 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 2004, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B)  
the Project will be carried out by the Egyptian Holding Company for 
Airports and Air Navigation (EHCAAN), established and operating pursuant to 
Presidential Decree No. 72 of 2001, with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Loan) available to EHCAAN, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EHCAAN (the Project 
Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
(b)  
Paragraph 22 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows: 
“22. “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread of 0.5%
in respect of 
the initial Loan Currency, provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount of the Loan, such fixed spread shall 
be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
“CAC” means the Cairo Airport Company, a joint stock company, wholly 
owned by EHCAAN, established and operating pursuant to Presidential 
 
Decree No. 156 of 2002, or any successor thereof; 
 
(b) 
“CAC Agreement” means the agreement entered into between EHCAAN 
and CAC pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.3. of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“EAC” means the Egyptian Airports Company, a joint stock company, 
wholly owned by EHCAAN, established and operating pursuant to Presidential 
 
Decree No. 72 of 2001, or any successor thereof; 
 
(d) 
“EAC Agreement” means the agreement entered into between EHCAAN 
and EAC pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.3. of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means the Borrower’s 
environmental management plans for Part A and Part B of the Project furnished to the 
Bank on February 19, 2004 and December 21, 2003 respectively, as such EMPs may be 
updated from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth 
the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset 
or reduce adverse environmental impacts, including air pollution, noise and traffic to levels 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means, individually, the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s, EHCAAN’s, CAC’s or EAC’s fiscal years, which 
period commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in each calendar year, and the term 
“Fiscal Years” means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
 
(h) 
“Ministry of Civil Aviation” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Civil 
Aviation, and any successor thereof; 
 
(i) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereof; 
 
(j) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
EHCAAN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “ PIP” means the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan, furnished to the Bank on March 4, 2004, setting forth the procedures, 
guidelines, criteria, terms of references and formats acceptable to the Bank, and required for 
Page  5
-
3
-
carrying out the Project, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement of the 
Borrower and the Bank;
 
(l) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, referred to in 
 
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Sector Policy Statement” means the Ministry of Civil Aviation’s policy 
on airports and civil aviation addressing the development of airports and related services, 
facilities and infrastructure according to international standards and the development 
objectives supported by the Project; 
 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Statutes” means Presidential Decree No. 72 of 2001 and the by-laws 
pertaining to the establishment and operation of EHCAAN, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; and 
 
(q) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EHCAAN pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to EHCAAN. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred thirty five 
million United States dollars (US$335,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, 
Page  6
-
4
-
and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through EHCAAN, may, for the purposes of the Project 
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not later 
than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the 
Variable Rate as defined in paragraph 47 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears
 
on February 1 and August 1
 
in each year.
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
Page  7
-
5
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from 
time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. EHCAAN is designated as the representative of the Borrower
 
for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.11. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance for the purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect to the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause EHCAAN to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of EHCAAN therein set 
forth; take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EHCAAN to perform such 
obligations; not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance;
 
and implement the Project in accordance with the Sector Policy 
Statement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall re-lend the proceeds of the Loan to EHCAAN under a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EHCAAN, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia:
 
(i) payment of interest, 
charges and premium; and repayment of such amount in accordance with 
 
Article II of this Agreement; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by 
the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by EHCAAN.
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EHCAAN pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2004, establish and 
thereafter maintain a higher council for the pricing of civil aviation services. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take the necessary measures to ensure that 
EHCAAN shall establish no later than the Effective Date and thereafter maintain a Project 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause EHCAAN to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period proposed by the 
Borrower and agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period proposed by the Borrower and
 
agreed to by the Bank), (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year (or such other period proposed by 
the Borrower and
 
agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an 
Page  9
-
7
-
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
EHCAAN to:
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and  
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
EHCAAN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EHCAAN will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Statutes or the Sector Policy Statement shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of EHCAAN to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
 
(d) 
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EHCAAN or for the suspension of its 
operations; or 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(e) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either CAC or EAC will be able to perform its corresponding obligations under the 
CAC Agreement or the EAC Agreement, respectively. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and EHCAAN; 
 
(b) 
EHCAAN shall have established the Project
 
financial management system 
referred to in Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
EHCAAN shall have established the PMU, with the organization, staffing 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the meaning 
of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to 
be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
EHCAAN’s Board of Directors, and is legally binding upon EHCAAN in accordance with 
its terms; 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and EHCAAN in accordance with its terms; 
and 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10, the Minister of State for Foreign 
Affairs of the Borrower and the Under Secretary of State for International, Regional and 
Arab Financing Organizations, International Cooperation Sector of said Ministry of the 
Borrower, are severally
 
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
8
Adly Street, 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 
 
 
(202) 391 2815 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
(202) 391 5167 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Nabil 
Fahmy 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
           /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman  
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
under: 
     100% 
of 
foreign 
expenditures 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
262,700,000 
 
(b) Part B of the Project 
39,300,000 
 
 
(2)  
Goods under 
3,500,000 
 
100% of foreign 
Part 
C 
of 
the 
Project 
    expenditures; 
 
100%
of local 
expenditures (ex- 
factory cost); and 
85% of other items 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
3,600,000 
 
85% 
 
under Part C of the  
 Project
 
(4) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
 
Amount due under 
 Rate 
Caps 
     Section 
2.09(c) 
of 
 and 
Interest 
Rate 
Collars    this 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
25,900,000 
 
 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
   335,000,000
Page  14
-
12 -
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the 
Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than US$100,000 
equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to increase the levels of performance at the Cairo 
International Airport and the Sharm El Sheikh Airport, and promote public-private 
development of such airports. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Construction of Third Terminal at Cairo International Airport
Carrying out works required for the construction of a new passenger
 
terminal at the 
Cairo International Airport, consisting of a three-level building, one concourse, two fingers 
with extendable capacity, three skyways, electromechanical systems and equipment and 
ancillary facilities. 
 
Part B
:
Construction of New Terminal at Sharm El Sheikh Airport
Carrying out works required for the construction of a new passenger terminal at the 
Sharm El Sheikh Airport, consisting of one power plant, and airside control room, a main 
entrance gateway, electromechanical systems, equipment and ancillary facilities. 
 
Part C
:
Strengthening Sector Operations and Environmental Management
1. 
Preparing an integrated national airport master plan including a strategic 
environmental assessment through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Preparing a detailed action plan for the implementation of a policy to gradually 
liberalize air transport through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
3. 
Preparing an assessment of the feasibility of expanding the capacity of the cargo 
hub at the Cairo International Airport through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
4. 
Installation of air and noise quality monitoring equipment, and establishing 
environmental units at CAC and EAC, as well as the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plans through the provision of goods, technical advisory services and 
training. 
 
5. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the EHCAAN, CAC and EAC through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training and information technology 
equipment. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  16
-
14 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, 
such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 1 and August 1 
4.17% 
 
Beginning August 1, 2009 
 
through August 1, 2020 
 
On February 1, 2021 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  17
-
15 -
 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce 
a
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  18
-
16 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
EHCAAN, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower, through EHCAAN, shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
,
through 
EHCAAN, shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, through 
EHCAAN, shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower, 
through EHCAAN, shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
Page  19
-
17 -
 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower, through EHCAAN, out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower, through EHCAAN, shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower, through EHCAAN, shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
Page  20
-
18 -
 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
