                                         Document of

                                      The World Bank

                                                                     Report No: ICR00001161




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                 (IBRD-72220 IBRD-75140)



                                             ON A

                                            LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$375 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                               ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                              FOR

                         AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                      December 24, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
     of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
                                             authorization
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 14, 2009)

                              Currency Unit = EGP
                               1.00 = US$ 0.183
                                US$ 1.00 = 5.46

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   BOT   Built-Operate-Transfer
  ADPI   First Airport development Project
  AVIT   Aviation Information Technology
   CAC   Cairo Airport Company
   CAI   Cairo Airport International
  CVN    Contract Variation Notice
   EAC   Egyptian Airport Company
EHCAAN   Egyptian Holding Company for Airports and Air Navigation
   EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
   EMP   Environmental Management Plan
   FSL   Fixed Spread Loan
   GDP   Gross Domestic Product
   GOE   Government of Egypt
  ICAO   International Civil Aviation Organization
   ITS   Information Technology System
  MCA    Ministry of Civil Aviation
 NANSC   National Air Navigation Services Company
   PDO   Project Development Objective
  PMU    Project Management Unit
   SSH   Sharm El Sheikh Airport
  EMU    Environmental Management Unit
   ISR   Implementation Supervision Reports
   DO    Development Objectives
    IP   Implementation Plan
  M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
    OP   Operation Policy
    BP   Bank Policy


                     Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                  Country Director: A. David Craig
                    Sector Manager: Jonathan Walters
               Project Team Leader: Michel Bellier
                  ICR Team Leader: Michel Bellier
                                              Arab Republic of Egypt
                                           Airports Development Project




                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 32
  Annex 5. Monitoring Indicators.................................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
  MAP.............................................................................................................................. 45
A. Basic Information
                                                                          EG-AIRPORTS
                        Egypt, Arab Republic
Country:                                        Project Name:             DEVELOPMENT
                        of
                                                                          PROJECT
                                                                          IBRD-72220,IBRD-
Project ID:             P082914                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          75140
ICR Date:               12/27/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          EGYPT
Original Total
                        USD 335.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 374.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 374.9M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 EHCAAN
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/10/2003     Effectiveness:                              08/24/2004
Appraisal:            01/19/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/30/2004     Mid-term Review:           06/30/2006       06/30/2006
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings            Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                             97                   99
Central government administration                                     3                    1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regulation and competition policy                                    33                   33
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                33                   33
Trade facilitation and market access                                 34                   34

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          A. David Craig                      Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:            Jonathan D. Walters                 Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Michel Bellier                      Michel Bellier
ICR Team Leader:           Michel Bellier
ICR Primary Author:        Bengt B. M. Bostrom


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project will support the Borrower's ongoing efforts to eliminate capacity bottlenecks
to growth in airport traffic, raise the quality of services to international best practice
standards at Cairo International and Sharm El Sheikh Airports, and promote private
sector participation in airport management and service delivery.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable


                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally           Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target            Completion or
                                              documents)         Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Traffic Development at CAI (domestic and international).
Value
quantitative or   8.7 million                10.3 million                        14.4 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved with actual traffic higher than target by close to 40 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Traffic Development at SSH (domestic and international).
Value
quantitative or   3.2 million                4.3 million                         7.8 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved with traffic exceeding target by 81 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Passenger per Staff Ratio at CAI (total CAI passengers/total CAC staff).
Value
quantitative or   2,260                      2,900                               2,443
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                 12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Final value meeting target is after opening of TB3.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Passenger per Staff Ratio at SSH (total SSH passengers/total SSH staff).
Value
quantitative or   30,769                     28,666                              5,372
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Final value is achieved after the full operations of new SSH terminal.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Cumulative Private Investment in Airport Infrastructure.
Value
quantitative or   US$50 million              > US$80 million                     Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                 12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                           Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Commercial Revenue per Passenger at CAI (in US$).
Value
(quantitative     2.1                       2.9                               3.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
                  Final value is before opening of TB3/actual value excludes concessions, leasing
(incl. %
                  (usufruct), utilities and rentals.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Commercial Revenue per Passenger at SSH (in US$).
Value
(quantitative     2.4                       5.6                               4.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Private Sector Airport Service Delivery Jobs at CAI (Egypt Air/others).
Value
(quantitative     12,700/6,275              12,700/8,275                      13,473/7,925
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Actual values included permanent jobs only.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Private Sector Airport Service Delivery Jobs at SSH (Egypt Air/others).
Value
(quantitative     286/256                   416/488                           802
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Actual value agregates jobs with Egypt Air/Other companies' jobs.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Commercial Revenue per Passenger at CAI (in US$).
Value
(quantitative     2.1                       2.9                               4.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Final value is before opening of TB3.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Commercial Revenue per Passenger at SSH (in US$).
Value             2.4                    5.6                                  4.5


                                                  iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Final Value is after opening SSH terminal.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Private Sector Airport Service Delivery Jobs at CAI (Egypt Air/others).
Value
(quantitative     12,700/6,275              12,700/8,275                      13,473/7,925
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Private Sector Airport Service Delivery Jobs at SSH (Egypt Air/others).
Value
(quantitative     286/256                   416/488                           1015/733
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/05/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     03/31/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/18/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     09/21/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     03/09/2005             Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                31.52
  5     07/14/2005             Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                34.97
  6     12/27/2005             Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                47.92
  7     03/09/2006             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    54.28
  8     09/11/2006             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    84.45
  9     03/02/2007             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   130.72
 10     07/09/2007             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   189.00
 11     03/04/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   260.70
 12     09/17/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   334.31
 13     01/12/2009          Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   334.76


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Following the government's increased commitment to a market-led economic reform in the mid
1990s, Egypt's economic growth strengthened sharply to around five percent per annum. In most
recent years, however, both internal and external shocks have combined to slow growth to around
three percent. The need for considerable infrastructure and the growing population required large
inflows of foreign assistance since the 1980s to finance major projects which managed to keep
the well developed construction industry growing at an annual rate of more than 20%. However,
the industry growth slowed down noticeably in 1999, as a result of cuts in Government's funding
for infrastructure projects.

At appraisal, the country was recovering slowly and economic recovery gained momentum in
2004, resulting in growth rising to an estimated 4.2% driven by rising exports of goods and
services and a sharp depreciation of the pound which enhanced the country's export
competitiveness. Egypt population stood at 70.5 million in January 2004 and was expected to rise
to almost 80 million by 2010 and to reach 95 million by 2020. The growing population put
considerable pressure on the labor market as well as social services. To promote economic
development and curb unemployment, faster growth was urgently needed. To that end, the
Government of Egypt's (GOE) policy focused on promoting private sector development,
attracting more foreign direct investment, and maximizing foreign exchange earnings from
tourism and exportable commodities.

Tourism is the country's most significant industry and according to independent studies, it
accounted for as much as 10% of GDP and in 2004 the sector's revenues averaged US$6.1
billion, representing, by far, Egypt's most important current account credit. In addition, the sector
contributed greatly to providing employment but remained vulnerable to a decline in the number
of visitors because of international concerns in the context of both domestic and regional security.

Following the decline in the share of agricultural commodities between 1965 and 2004 from 71
percent to 9 percent, reflecting the development of the oil industry and a greater portion of
petroleum industrial products, economic reforms focused more on stimulating non-oil exports.
Besides poor marketing and undependable services, transport continued to constrain exports,
aside from domestic inefficiencies such as low labor productivity, outdated technology and high
bureaucracy.

Air transport sector had and still has a key role to play in increased growth, but this role was
undermined by four factors:
    (i)   Airport Capacity constraint: Airport capacity in the country was increasingly short of
          need and to allow for the projected rise in tourist numbers.
    (ii) Legal and Institutional framework: institutional and capacity building in airport
          regulation was needed to attract more private sector investment in airport infrastructure.
          Therefore, reforms in the civil aviation started in 2001. The Ministry of Civil Aviation
          (MCA) was created and entrusted with the responsibility of the country's airports and
          civil aviation matters. It is overseeing both the Egypt Air group and the Egyptian
          Holding Company for Airports and Air Navigation (EHCAAN) which owns four
          affiliate companies: the Cairo Airport Company which manages Cairo platform (CAC),
          the Egypt Airport Company responsible for main airports in other Directorates, the
          National Air Navigation Services Company in charge of operating air traffic and air
                                                 1
          navigation services (NANSC), and the Aviation Information Technology Company
          which provides services connected to information technology (AVIT).
    (iii) Narrow Revenue Base: to the exception of Cairo Airport International (CAI), airports
          were not profitable as tariffs were still low by international standards. Action was still
          expected to align tariffs with regional market level to make the project profitable and
          the CAC still needed to take the necessary steps to strengthen marketing of airport-
          based services and facilities in order to generate more revenues.
    (iv) Regulated Air Transport: although the liberalization is progressing for international
          flights between Egypt, Africa, and the Arab countries, liberalization of key routes with
          Europe and other major markets would only be possible if Egypt Air were to become
          competitive.

Prospects for private financing for airport development were limited at the time of project
preparation, given the adverse infrastructure concession climate in the world and in the region.
The incomplete legal framework for Public Private Partnerships (PPP) and gaps in the available
financial and operational data also justified dropping the concession approach. Nevertheless,
EHCAAN was looking to mobilize private sector expertise and opted for the signature of
management contracts with international airport operators, by CAC on Cairo platform and EAC
regarding the other main country airports, including Sharm El Sheikh (SSH).

For the construction of the proposed new terminals, public financing was then a valid alternative.
The Bank's involvement would ensure that the required necessary actions are taken, including
those designed to develop competition within and between airports, and it would provide
experience in financing large and complex transport infrastructure projects. The Bank was also to
contribute to ensuring proper consideration of environmental and social issues, enhancing the
chances of attracting high quality bids for private management contracts and supplying specific
technical expertise.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

In the Loan Agreement, the Project development objective was to increase the levels of
performance at CAI and SSH, and promote public-private development of such airports. The
Project Appraisal Document also indicated that the project aimed at (i) eliminating capacity
bottlenecks to traffic growth, particularly for tourism and associated foreign exchange earnings;
(ii) raising CAI and SSH service quality to international best practice standards; and (iii)
promoting efficient private participation in airport management and airport service delivery in a
more competitive market.

The project's lending instrument was a Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) with level repayments. The
Loan has a 17 year maturity, including a five-year grace period. The Loan was denominated in
US Dollars.

The following Key performance indicators were agreed upon:
  i.    Economic Development
           ¾ traffic at CAI:
                10.3 million domestic and international passengers.
           ¾ traffic at SSH:
                4.3 million domestic and international passengers
           ¾ foreign exchange earnings from tourism:
                CAI: US$1,481million; and SSH: US$1,360 million


                                                 2
  ii.   Airport Operational Performance:
            ¾ certification (International Civil Aviation (ICAO) standards) obtained from Civil
            Aviation Authorities before commissioning of terminals
            ¾ occupancy rate at peak hour:
                 Third terminal at CAI : 1.0 / 1.0(actual traffic / rated capacity)
                 SSH terminal: 0.38 / 0.80 (actual traffic / rated capacity)
            ¾ passenger processing times (arrivals/departures):
                 CAI: 35 minutes/ 45 minutes
                 SSH: 35 minutes/ 40 minutes
 iii.   Private Participation in Infrastructure:
            ¾ cumulative private investment in airport infrastructure more thanUS$80million
            ¾ average commercial revenue earned per passenger
                 CAI: at least US$2.9; and SSH: at least US$5.6
            ¾ increased private sector service jobs (Egypt Air / other firms):
                 CAI : 12,700/8,275
                 SSH: 416/ 488

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The expected primary beneficiaries of the project were all passengers received at CAI and SSH
airports further to an improved level of service and less waiting time. In addition, agriculture
production and employment were also to benefit from the project through increased freight
transport capacity and a study on air cargo development. Finally, Egypt economy as a whole was
to benefit from the project through the additional spending by tourists that could have been lost
without the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project included three components: (i) Construction of a third terminal at Cairo International
Airport (TB3) and enabling works; (ii) Construction of a new terminal and enabling works at
SSH; and (iii) strengthening of sector operations and environmental management.

Component 1. Construction of a Third Terminal at CAI (TB3)-(US$485 million)

The objective of this component was to contribute to solving capacity constraint issues at CAI. It
was expected that TB3 would have, at its completion, a total capacity of 11.0 million passengers
(5.0 million domestic and 6.0 million international passengers), compared to the current 9.5
million provided by Terminals l and 2. It was anticipated that at completion, TB3 would be
integrated with Terminal 2, which was then used primarily by foreign airlines. Terminal 1, which
had Egypt Air as its main user, was expected to continue receiving domestic and regional flights.
The TB3 was foreseen to consist of a new terminal building including electromechanical systems
and equipment and connected to TB2. To better accommodate an aggressive construction
schedule, a separate enabling works contract was financed by CAC and signed early. Finally, to
accommodate the future generation of wide body aircraft expected to carry between 600 and 800

                                                3
passengers, the design work for a third runaway at CAI was underway and while not financed by
this Loan, was supposed to be made operational at the time TB3 was planned to open.

Component 2. Construction of a New Terminal at SSH (US$60.5 million)

The objective of this component was the construction of a new terminal at SSH, with a design
capacity of 4.5 million passengers annually and enabling works. SSH was and still is the third
largest airport in Egypt in terms of passenger volumes, and was then operating at its designed
capacity of two million passengers per annum. The new terminal was expected to consist of one
new building including electromechanical systems and equipment. As for TB3 in Cairo, two
packages of works were planned for SSH's new terminal ­ an "enabling package" (some US$2.5
million) and the main construction contract. The construction period was set to begin in October
2004, with the goal of making the new terminal operational by April 2006.

Component 3. Strengthening sector operations and environment management (US$26.2
million)

The objective of this component was to strengthen sector operations and environmental
management. It was comprised of two components respectively financed by the Government and
the Bank. Indeed, on the one hand CAC and the Egyptian Airport Company (EAC) hired and
financed Project Managers and Legal Advisors to assist them throughout the preparation and the
implementation of their civil works contracts. The Bank financed: (i) the preparation of a national
airport master plan; (ii) the preparation of an action plan for gradual air transport liberalization;
(iii) the definition of a strategy for reorganization and development of air cargo; (iv) the
deployment of air quality and noise monitoring equipment, and the establishment of
environmental units in CAI and SSH; and (v) management capacity building (including provision
of IT equipment) at EHCAAN, CAC and EAC related to commercial, financial, regulatory and
monitoring functions.

1.6 Revised Components

Not applicable

1.7 Other significant changes

In late January 2008, approved contract variation notices (CVNs) under the main construction
contract of TB3 resulted in cost overruns above 15 percent of the original contract amount.
Therefore, GOE requested, from the Bank, an additional financing in the amount of US$40
millions to finance these cost overruns, in addition to a reallocation in the amount of US$2.6
million from categories goods and consultant services under Component 3. The total cost of TB3
under the project was then estimated at US$403.9 million (at the contractual exchange rate).

The amount of additional expenses was, among other reasons, due to the GOE's decision, in
2003, to speed up the project implementation by using, for bidding documents, designs that were
developed for a passenger terminal in the mid-1990s. The old design had to be updated during the
bidding process and early implementation, to include state-of-the art IT systems, in addition to
taking into account numerous changes in GOE's and ICAO standards since 1995. In particular, to
comply with the more rigorous seism design criteria introduced in the Building Code in 2004, and
to accommodate new, larger A380 aircraft on the taxiway, apron system and in the terminal.

Following the assessment of the then successful implementation of the project since its launch
and the GOE's continued deep commitment to the project and confirmation of the possible
                                                 4
completion of TB3 works by the closing date, the Bank Board approved the additional financing
on April 24, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

In January 2003, the Government sent to the Bank a formal request for a US$150 million loan to
support the development of the airport sector. Large investment needs in the airport sector were
not the only reason for the request, as the Government was also seeking to test the Bank's
capacity to efficiently and swiftly put in place a large financing as part of broader discussions on
an increased and revived cooperation. The Bank's prior involvement in a transport project in
Egypt dated back to 1999, and the transport portfolio had never included an airport project.

From the start, there was nevertheless, a high quality dialogue with the EHCAAN, under the
oversight of the MCA, and preparation activities developed rapidly to culminate in Board
approval in March 31, 2004. The very strong commitment of all Government counterparts was
instrumental for the swift preparation of the project (nine months from the first preparation
mission).

Early discussions identified the two large investments which the project financed, the third
terminal building in Cairo and the second terminal at SSH. These projects were justified by the
under-capacity of Cairo airport (9 million passengers per year vs. traffic of 8.3 million passengers
in 2002/2003) and the rapidly developing tourism activity in Sharm El Sheikh. Since preliminary
designs for a new airport terminal were finalized during 1994-1997 and updated in 2002,
EHCAAN could start the procurement process before Board decision based on those designs. For
SSH terminal, the preparation of bidding documents started later, but at appraisal, engineering
studies were advanced enough to enable the Bank to assess main construction risks and put in
place mitigation measures.

EHCAAN also agreed upon an institutional component aimed at strengthening airport sector
capacity, in line with the MCA' policy for the development of air transport. This component
strengthened the rationale for Bank's involvement as it called upon its expertise in civil aviation
and experience in financing large and complex transport infrastructure projects. Another GOE's
priority supported by the Bank was the international competitive contracting out of airports'
management to private airport operators.

In the design of the project, the Bank applied the main following lessons:
     · the importance of a strong commitment from counterpart authorities for consistent project
        implementation and achievement of project objectives;

    ·   the completion of key steps, early on, improves quality at entry and reduces uncertainty;

    ·   taking smaller but practical steps with a good probability of success is a more effective
        means of bringing market liberalization to fruition, than would more aggressive and
        riskier actions;

    ·   complex operations require close interaction between the Bank and a strong project team
        on the Borrower's side; and

    ·   the quality of monitoring and reporting systems is essential.


                                                 5
In terms of implementation arrangements, it was agreed that the Bank funds would be on-lent by
the Ministry of Finance of Egypt to EHCAAN, as a holding company of the airport sector and
main Bank counterpart, which in turn, would transfer funds to the CAC and EAC, the
implementing entities of the construction contracts. Actually, EHCAAN entered into a Project
Agreement with the Bank as the implementing entity, but works contracts were signed by CAC
and EAC respectively, which booked assets on their balance sheet. As the initial financial
management assessment concluded that the systems did not meet the Bank's minimum
requirements, the Bank requested the establishment of a fully functional project Financial
Management System and the appointment of a qualified Finance Officer familiar with Bank's
guidelines, and the signature of on lending agreements between EHCAAN and CAC/EAC
satisfactory to the Bank. It was also agreed that, for works contracts, the Bank would directly pay
contractors' invoices processed by CAC or EAC and approved by EHCAAN. For consultants'
contracts, funds were to flow through a special account.

The EHCAAN established a Project Management Unit (PMU) and staffed it with experienced
employees to liaise with the Bank, coordinate the project implementation, oversee procurement,
monitor disbursements and prepare progress and financial management reports. Finally, at the
request of the Bank, EHCAAN established a Steering Committee with representatives of key
stakeholders in the project, such as the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MCA), the Ministry of
Finance, EHCAAN's affiliates, CAC, and EAC.

2.2 Implementation

The continued commitment of GOE's counterparts, the thorough oversight of the project by
EHCAAN's top management, and the dedication and effectiveness of the PMU have all been
critical in the successful and timely implementation of the project. Efforts made by EHCAAN
and affiliated companies to complete the design and launch procurement of works early on, were
also instrumental in this timely completion, despite issues encountered on both construction sites.

Under the Cairo TB3 investment component, CAC signed the main construction contract on
December 4, 2004, with a contractual duration of 900 days. The contract initially included the
installation of the Information Technology System (ITS) by a designated sub-contractor, to be
selected by CAC at a later stage. However, irreconcilable issues on provisions allocating some
risks between the main contract and the ITS contract led EHCAAN and CAC to decide to execute
a separate ITS contract and rely on the project manager to ensure the coordination of works and
commissioning. Therefore, the ITS contract was only signed on August 1, 2006.

Despite the above and a series of contract extensions, works were completed and the terminal was
fully operational by the closing date. TB3 was officially inaugurated on December 18, 2008 and
opened for commercial operations on April 27, 2009, after trial operations by limited Egypt Air
flights, and in the middle of 2009 the terminal was fully operational for Egypt Air's domestic and
international flights, and for its Star Alliance partners.

Regarding SSH, EAC signed a single construction contract including ITS on December 9, 2004,
for duration of 550 days. The new passenger terminal at SSH was inaugurated on May 24, 2007
with the full opening to commercial traffic on June 11, 2007.

In addition to regular supervision missions two to three times a year, the Bank undertook the mid-
term review in the middle of 2006. This mission was crucial in clarifying major issues under the
large works contract for the Cairo passenger terminal TB3. It was noted that the main contractor
would need to significantly accelerate works to prevent slippages in the construction program.
                                                6
Despite these efforts, a series of six extensions of the original construction period amounting to
679 days brought the final duration of the contract to 1,579 days. The duration of a separate IT
subcontract, initially 547 days, was also doubled because of delays incurred under the main
contract.

TB3 works contract was also affected by a large number of cost variations which increased the
price by 55 percent above the value at signature and 22 percent above the planned value of works
in the PAD, despite the financing by CAC of artworks and loose furniture initially included into
the contract. This relatively large price increase was due, for a large part to changes in the design,
which started in the late 1990s, after the signature of the contract and in order to: (i) meet new
seismic standards and enable the handling of very large aircrafts, (ii) improve the quality of the
facility to enhance the experience of passengers, and (iii) reflect technological improvement
through better ITS. Throughout implementation, the Bank reviewed construction progress and
assessed cost variations and requests for extension of time submitted by CAC, before approving
them.

With regards to the smaller SSH terminal, the original contract duration of 550 days had to be
extended several times by a total of 281 days. The main reason was the frequent stoppage of
works for security concerns on the occasion of official visits to SSH. Final contract price was also
affected by cost variations in Cairo and was 35 percent higher than the planned amount in the
PAD.

By the closing date, consultants had completed all studies and other capacity strengthening
activities had been successful, including the training of CAC's and EAC's staff on environment
and the installation of noise measurement systems at both airports. During preparation, EHCAAN
had drafted terms of reference with the Bank's assistance, which enabled the start of procurement
of consultants from September 2004. In most instances, EHCAAN and MCA followed upon
consultants' recommendations and took them into account for policy or investment decisions.

CAC's and EAC's ability to repay the loan was predicated upon an increase in departure fees
planned in May 2005. In fact, the change was effective from January 2007 due to the later than
expected establishment of the Higher Council for Pricing Strategy and protracted negotiations
with airlines which initially opposed the increase. However, EHCAAN's accounts and financial
results of affiliated companies were not significantly affected, as the Ministry of Finance gave an
extraordinary contribution to EHCAAN (EGP 440 million) to offset lost revenues.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Various monitoring indicators aimed at assessing outcomes related to development objectives,
such as passenger growth, quality of services and commercial revenues, while other indicators
focused on economic development, with the number of private jobs created at both airports,
volume of exports and imports at Cairo airport and private participation growth. Finally, results
indicators assessed the progress of the project.

EHCAAN regularly collected data, which in some instances, were internal performance
indicators used to guide operations, and in other instances required surveys. EHCAAN dutifully
included results in quarter and annual progress reports. The Bank used this very useful and up to
date information to monitor the project performance and assess progress towards the development
objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

                                                  7
In the absence of land acquisition and resettlement, only policy OP/BP 4.01 regarding
environmental assessment was triggered by the project which was classified as Category A, since
project works at CAI and SSH and the new runway planned at CAI (CAC financing) were
expected to produce noise and air pollution, possibly significant for surrounding residential areas.
In accordance with Bank's safeguards policies and domestic regulations, EHCAAN prepared an
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) for each airport, examining project alternatives and
identifying main negative impacts. Scoping sessions and public consultations were also
conducted during the different phases of the EIA preparation. The detailed Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) proposed mitigating measures and monitoring arrangements. The Loan
financed training sessions for CAC and EAC environment staff responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the EMP and also the installation of noise monitoring equipment at Cairo and
SSH airports.

CAC and EAC fully implemented this EMP. In particular, they included mitigation measures in
works contracts and enforced all EMP's requirements during implementation. Furthermore, they
established environment units and started regular monitoring of noise and pollution at Cairo and
SSH airports. Benefits for CAC and EAC from this in-house environment capacity will be long
lasting, as they had decided to mainstream environment assessments and pollution monitoring.

Fiduciary requirements were also addressed through institutional arrangements, staffing of the
PMU and established procedures. Regarding procurement, the same Project Manager oversaw
Cairo and SSH construction contracts, and that firm was familiar with Bank procurement
procedures. In addition, the PMU staff included a Procurement Coordinator, whose primary
responsibilities included guidance and monitoring of EHCAAN functions vis-à-vis CAC and
EAC. Finally, the Bank reviewed procurement documents and reports throughout the selection of
all contractors and consultants, in accordance with guidelines as all contracts were subject to
prior-reviews.

The selection method of the ITS supplier for TB3 was the main issue during implementation. As
mentioned earlier, the main contractor was to also install the ITS but through a sub-contract with
a supplier procured at a later stage. The main reason was that ITS bidding documents could not be
prepared on time for the tender of main works. However, insurmountable difficulties arose when
EHCAAN attempted to harmonize provisions of both contracts. The matter was discussed at
length with the Bank, and EHCAAN and CAC finally decided to take ITS supply and installation
out of the main contract, and directly procure the ITS supplier. Consequently, the ITS contract
was only signed in August 2006. The coordination of both contracts also proved to be a challenge
for the project manager and somewhat delayed the completion of works.

On financial management, specific arrangements designed to allocate responsibilities and
organize the flow of funds between EHCAAN and CAC/EAC proved effective. Those
arrangements were fully implemented by all three companies which satisfactorily met the
financial requirements. A great care was given to secure those arrangements upfront, as the Bank
reviewed contracts between EHCAAN and CAC/EAC. The project was rated satisfactory on
financial management throughout its life span with steady 100 percent financial management
reports and audit compliance. This is attributed to: i) the high level of commitment of the
government teams which dealt with issues in a timely manner and with efficient Bank support, ii)
the readiness of the project since inception, as a result of the high performance of the PMU's
qualified staff and adequate system to meet the FM requirements, and iii) the use of direct
disbursements under the project. The latter made it easier for both the PMU and the Bank to
monitor the flow of funds and helped streamline the project financial management in swiftly
dealing with large amount of foreign currency contracts.

                                                 8
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Upon completion of the hand-over phases, CAC and EAC integrated new terminals into airport
facilities managed by the private operators. Operations started smoothly with test periods
entailing a partial opening in both cases. Terminals are fully operational and both the airport
companies and the airlines are very satisfied with the overall performance of terminals. At CAI,
Egypt Air and its partners in Star Alliance moved all flights to and from Cairo to TB3 within four
months of the beginning of operations. At SSH, a passenger survey carried out in 2008 evidenced
a high satisfaction rate with 84.7 percent satisfied or very satisfied. Airport companies had to
increase staff to run facilities and cater to the rapidly increasing traffic, in the tune of 1,000
people at Cairo; but the support of airport managers and efforts made to train staff have enabled
CAC and EAC to efficiently cope with the increased traffic. Several M&E indicators will
continue to be monitored by CAC and EAC, including passenger traffic, occupancy rates and
processing times, commercial revenues and jobs on both airport platforms. Today, these are, in
many instances, used to guide management decisions.

EHCAAN and MCA have followed upon the recommendations of the studies carried out under
the institutional and capacity strengthening components. For example, MCA opened Cairo airport
to charter flights and revised the legal framework for civil aviation, in order to facilitate the
establishment of new carriers; EHCAAN set up an air cargo association at Cairo which involves
main airlines carrying freight and CAC launched studies for new cargo facilities in Cairo, to
provide state-of-the-art facilities and support the growth in freight traffic; finally, CAC and EAC
are basing investment decisions on regularly updated airport master plan recommendations.

GOE wished to continue benefiting from the Bank support and on May 7, 2009 requested another
loan to finance the construction of a new terminal TB2 at Cairo airport. This investment was
included into the long-term development plan of Cairo, but EHCAAN and CAC had to accelerate
construction to cope with passenger traffic which grew during 2004 -2008 much faster than
estimated during preparation. This new project should also include an institutional component
through which the Bank will assist GOE on air transport policy issues.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Throughout implementation the Government' strategy to promote development and curb
unemployment through faster economic growth remained unchanged, and there was even an
increased focus on economic reform to accelerate productivity and mitigate the impacts of the
financial and economic crisis through a much higher growth track.

The high growth of passenger traffic, both at Cairo and Sharm El Sheikh, which collectively
handle 62 percent of all air passenger's traffic in Egypt, has vindicated the PDO on the
performance of both airports. Thus, until 2007/2008 traffic exceeded, by far, forecasts made
during preparation, with an annual average increase of 11.9 percent in Cairo and 18 percent in
SSH since 2003/2004. Airports are the primary points of entry for international tourists, which are
one of Egypt's largest sources of foreign exchange. Tourism earned Egypt $11 billion in FY2008
since it attracted a total of 12.8 million visitors (foreign exchange earnings from tourism arrivals
in CAI and SSH have exceeded US$5.4 billion). The increasing traffic at Cairo has also resulted
in job creation, with the employment of more than 45,000 persons at the airport itself in 2008.

                                                 9
During the course of the project, Government moved ahead with the gradual liberalization of air
transport. Thus, the project supported the development of a plan for gradual liberalization of air
transport. Accordingly, Cairo airport opened for charter flights in early 2009, bilateral air service
agreements are in force with 25 states, and financing requirements for establishing new air
carriers have been lowered. In addition, the airports master plan for Egypt paves the way for
capacity development in the future at Cairo airport in the other five main country airports, while
the national strategy for the development of air cargo has resulted in initiatives facilitating exports
of goods and enhancing logistic services, such as the development of a cargo village at Cairo
airport. Actually, two-thirds of cargo traffic is export, most of which is perishable agricultural
goods, and it is concentrated in CAI. Since 80 percent of air cargo is carried by passenger planes,
the project had a direct impact on exports.

Finally, the public private partnerships for the operations of Cairo and regional airports through
management contracts with experienced airport operators was also very timely and contributed to
improving the performance of the airport sector up to quality levels needed to satisfy the large
number of international passengers visiting Egypt.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.3 Efficiency

The Project Development Objectives were fully achieved at project completion and throughout
implementation the PDO indicator was rated Satisfactory or Highly Satisfactory.

Further to the completion of both facilities before the closing date and the smooth commercial
operations, the additional capacity enabled CAC and EAC to cope with large traffic increases
since project approval and significantly improve the quality of service in both Cairo and SSH.
Public media coverage of project achievements, efficiency and environmental impact, was
intense.

The signature of management contracts regarding Cairo airport and five regional airports owned
by EAC in early 2005 has materialized Government's policy objective to increase private
participation in the airport sector. CAC has also allowed a second handling company to serve
airlines at Cairo airport and has concessioned parkings at CAI and commercial areas in terminals
to private investors.

The above achievements are reflected in project outcome indicators in table 1 below:

                                   Table 1: Outcome Indicators
             PDO                    Outcome Indicator                 Results at Completion
Remove Bottlenecks to:
 a) Traffic growth at CAI and   Increased Traffic Growth at   CAI: 11.9% annual average 2003/2004 ­
    SSH.                        CAI and SSH.                  2007/2008 vs. 3.5% expected.

                                                              SSH: 18% annual average 2003/2004 ­
                                                              2007/2008 vs. 4.7% expected.
  b) Growth in Tourism.         Increased foreign exchanges   CAI: US$2,564 million vs. US$1,481
                                earnings from tourism.        million expected.

                                                              SSH: US$2,844 million vs. US$1,360
                                                              million expected.
  c) Growth in exports from     Increased exports at CAI.     287,000 T vs. 221,000 T expected.

                                                  10
            PDO                       Outcome Indicator                   Results at Completion
    CAI.


Raise CAI and SSH
performance to international       For both CAI and SSH
best practice norms
                                    a) Passenger processing       CAI: 33 min per passenger for arrival vs.
                                       times.                     35 min planned (45 min vs. 45 min at
                                                                  departure).

                                                                  SSH: 20 min per passenger for arrival
                                                                  vs. 35 min planned (12 min vs. 40 min at
                                                                  departure).
                                    b) Certification obtained     CAI certification in progress.
                                      from Civil Aviation
                                      Authorities before          SSH certified by ICAO in April 2008.
                                      commissioning of
                                      terminals.

Promote Airport Investment
by
  a) Boosting airport               a) Average commercial         CAI: US$4.4 per passenger after
     commercial revenue.               revenue raised in          opening TB3 vs. US$2.9 planned.
                                       CAI/SSH (US$ per
                                       passenger).                SSH: US$ 4.5 per passenger vs. 5.6
                                                                  planned.
  b) Developing private sector      b) Private sector jobs        CAI: 13,473 jobs at Egypt Air in 2007
     service jobs.                     created at CAI/SSH.        vs. 12,700 planned and 7,925 jobs in
                                                                  other firms vs. 8,275 planned.
                                                                  (permanent jobs only)

                                                                  SSH: 802 in 2007 vs. 904 planned.
    Increasing private sector       c) Growth of PSP in airport
                                                                  Management contracts of Cairo and
    role in the aviation               activities nationwide.
                                                                  regional airports signed end 2004.
    industry.


The full list of monitoring indicators and values at closing is provided in Annex 5.

Revised economic rates of return for both TB3 and SSH confirm the projects benefits. Based on
the methodology used in the PAD and available data, the estimated Net Present Value and
Economic Rate of Return results (Table 2 below), show that economic benefits of Cairo TB3 and
SSH are significantly higher than estimated at appraisal, despite significant cost increases.

                                   Table 2: Economic Rate of Return
       Ratio                    Value at Appraisal    Updated Value                      Comments
Cairo TB3
NPV (US$ million)                    252                          422              10% discount rate
ERR (%)                               16.2                         17.2

SSH
NPV                                  122                          278              10% discount rate
                                                     11
ERR                                 28                           37.8

The higher economic rate of return is mostly the result of higher than expected traffics, whose
growth was fueled by general economic development, tourism flows, the establishment of Egypt
Air Express (a subsidiary of Egypt Air established in 2006) to develop domestic routes, and
Egypt air membership in Star Alliance which induced European partner airlines to increase
services to Egypt. As a result, the Government's ambition to transform Cairo into a regional hub
had already been partly fulfilled.

The financial analysis of accounts for FY08, and financial ratios monitored during
implementation, show that the airport companies' financial situation has remained sound,
although the repayment of the Bank loan from 2009 will affect debt service ratios of CAC and
EAC (Table 3).

                                     Table 3: Financial Ratios
  Forecast vs. Actual          Net Income          Debt Service Ratio(1)       Current Ratio(2)
     (US$ million)
EHCAAN                         193/ 314.9
CAC                           253.2 / 479.1                1.74 / 5.6             1.99 / 0.7
EAC                           154.8 / 317.9           1.3 (objective) /1.6    1.0 (objective)/1.2
(1) Current ratio
(2) Debt service ratio

Financial ratios were achieved despite the late increase in departure fees which has somewhat
affected CAC and EAC's cash-flows, as compensations given by the Ministry of Finance could
not fully fill in the gaps.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project was successfully completed on time and achieved its development objectives,
especially the expected outcomes, in terms of employment generation and increased foreign
exchange earnings. In a country where economic growth is critical for increasing employment
and generating the required resources to address social needs, developing tourism is an
exceptional opportunity for Egypt because of the wealth of unique historical sites and resort areas
along the Red Sea. Today, tourism is both a major earner of foreign exchange and also a provider
of a very important part of the formal and informal employment in Egypt. In that sense the project
objectives to enhance transport services for tourism were fully relevant. The project design also
made it possible to alleviate major infrastructure bottlenecks and improve the airport sector
performance, while mobilizing private initiative.

The Borrower achieved the development objectives in a cost effective manner, as evidenced by
the high economic rates of return and the financial soundness of the airport companies, despite
the investment costs of the new terminals. This was done while maintaining the competitiveness
of airport fees compared to other countries in the region and in Africa.

Since all outcomes were very positive, the highly satisfactory rating is justified.




                                                 12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Social development and gender aspects were not specifically part of the Project Development
Objectives. However, services in general and tourism support, in particular, are labor-intensive
with high multipliers for impact on the overall economy of Egypt. There are also opportunities,
in this modern sector, to use skilled labor without particular gender bias. In relation with the
development of TB3, CAC hired close to 1,000 staff during 2004-2008, while strengthening
technical departments with about 400 staff. With around 45,000 employees at the Cairo airport,
the sector development had a significant social impact, direct as well as indirect through
multiplier effects on the local economy, especially through businesses attracted to the CAI
platform.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As previously stated the ongoing process of gradual air transport liberalization and enhanced
airport services are fostering the efficiency of the sector, increasing transport supply, and
improving quality of air transport services in the long run.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project was instrumental in mainstreaming environmental practices in the airport sector,
through the establishment of environmental units at CAC and EAC and the installation of noise
and air pollution monitoring systems, in strengthening the procurement capacity of airport
companies, and in transferring efficient project management practices.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The project monitoring and evaluation framework included passenger surveys, both at Cairo
Airport and Sharm El Sheikh, on Quarter basis. These covered various aspects of airport terminal
services and were generally positive.

For Sharm El Sheikh, there was a very favorable reaction after the beginning of commercial
operations at the new terminal. At Cairo, there remained a persistent difference between
processing times for arrivals and departures in 2008, which can be explained, in part, by the
enhanced security formalities after September 2001 and the opening of the TB3 in the first half of
2009 only.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

There were several risks associated with the development outcome at appraisal and various
mitigation efforts contributed to reducing them. The main risks at the ICR stage are as follows:

Lower private sector involvement

Management contracts with international airport operators were signed in December 2004 both
with CAC for Cairo (with a closing date in 2014 which can be extended by 3 years) and with
                                                13
EAC for the five regional airports with a closing date in 2011, which again can be extended by
three years. So far, EHCAAN and its affiliates are very satisfied with the results of contracts and
do not intend to terminate them early. There is no plan, so far, regarding new arrangements from
contracts completion dates, in two years at the earliest for regional airports, but this is not an
urgent matter. In any event, lasting benefits from the management contract, for EAC and CAC,
include enhanced operational performance and stronger capacity as a result of staff training and
exposure to best practices.

Private firms are also more involved in providing airport services. Thus, 37.3 percent of CAC's
income comes from private firms operating within the airport area under concessions and
competitively awarded (parking, Air Mall, commercial areas in terminals) and Government
policy should maintain or expand this share.

The gradual liberalization of air transport remains a priority for GOE. GOE is willing to extend
the existing 25 bilateral agreements to other countries (the Bank may assist in this area through
the new TB2 construction project). Chartered flights are also allowed in all airports.

Rating: Moderate

Capacity bottlenecks at CAI and SSH

The successful completion of TB3 and SSH terminals have addressed capacity bottlenecks
identified during preparation. The additional capacity allows for large traffic increases. However,
based on trends during 2005-2008 and taking into account the impact of the economic crisis, CAI
would be again saturated in 2017, and SSH would need a new terminal to meet traffic around
2015. Therefore, CAC is planning the reconstruction of TB2 with an additional capacity of 4
million passengers per annum, and EAC has started design studies of a new terminal at SSH.

Rating: Moderate

Degradation of CAI and SSH performance

CAI's and SSH's performance have significantly been enhanced by the opening of new terminals
and improved operations, thanks to the additional skills brought to companies by management
contracts. Future degradation may be caused by low operational performance, but there are
financial incentives built into these contracts to entice operators to meet quality standards.
Although, the financial risk is still present, CAC preparatory studies of TB2 reconstruction have
shown that the company would remain financially sustainable, under more conservative traffic
estimates than the industry forecasts. Since the airport tariffs are still low in comparison with
other countries in the region, there is also room for further increases, if justified by the costs of
the services provided.

Rating: Moderate

Stagnation of job creation at Cairo Airport

Employment trends in CAI evidence job creation mechanisms by and around large airports.
Unless major security issues divert tourists from Cairo and Egypt resulting, in the long-term, in
an expected slowdown of economic growth, passenger traffic should continue to increase at Cairo
airport and support the creation of additional jobs. Cairo airport also owns 9 million m2 around
the platform, which it intends to sell or lease to businesses, interested in the proximity of the
airport.
                                                 14
Rating: Moderate

Accordingly, the overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project was prepared on a fast track basis. The identification mission took place in January
2003 and was followed by a preparation mission in June 2003. The project was submitted to the
Regional Operation Committee meeting on November 6, 2003 and the team undertook a pre-
appraisal mission, the same month, to accelerate preparation while final versions of EIAs for both
terminals were not yet available. Project appraisal was completed through an in-house desk
review once EIAs satisfactory to the Bank were disclosed. Negotiations took place during
February 22­29, 2004 and the Board approved the Loan on March 30, 2004.

To carry out preparation, the Bank put together a team comprising policy, economic, financial,
and technical expertise, and benefiting from strong internal support on safeguards and fiduciary
issues. The Bank paid high attention to identifying and mitigating the potential risks of a very
large project to be implemented by Agencies unfamiliar with Bank's guidelines and safeguards
policies. A specific and detailed risk assessment was prepared. Furthermore, in order to assess the
technical risks, the Bank hired an engineering firm, specialized in airports to review the design of
TB3 and SSH terminals and EHCAAN agreed to make changes suggested to address the
identified issues. Regarding safeguards, the Bank guided the Borrower to ensure the quality of the
EIAs, including recommendations on the terms of reference for the selection of an environment
consultant and a careful review of draft reports. On fiduciary issues, since EHCAAN had no prior
experience with Bank projects, the Bank team paid a particular attention to develop tailored
implementation arrangements, addressing the institutional complexity arising from the respective
roles of EHCAAN, as a recipient of the Loan funds and its affiliates, which were to manage
works and book assets on their balance sheets. Financial management provisions were reflected in
the Loan and Project Agreement and ensured a proper control of the flow of funds. Similarly,
concerns about EHCAAN's and CAC's little knowledge of procurement guidelines led the Bank
to request the appointment, by the PMU, of a qualified procurement specialist. More generally,
the Bank advised EHCAAN on the roles and structure of the PMU, during preparation and
throughout implementation, with suggestions on key jobs description. In parallel, the Bank
developed a matrix for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), focusing on key performance
indicators of airports across a range of outcomes relevant to the development objectives, and
endorsed by EHCAAN at appraisal. Throughout the process the Bank made good use of its
resources and experience.

A major achievement, at entry, was to get GOE's full agreement on a project scope entailing both
large investments and a range of policy and institutional initiatives. At the time of the design,
several aspects of institutional improvement and efforts to liberalize air transport sector were
recognized. Consequently, the Bank advised EHCAAN on the objectives and the scope of those
initiatives which resulted in the drafting of terms of reference by the time of project appraisal.



                                                15
On account of satisfactory preparation addressing critical aspects for the implementation of an
investment loan, in a very short period of time, the Bank's performance is rated Highly
Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Thanks to the excellent collaboration with the implementing agencies, the supervision process,
while complex, yielded in general very good results. Early on, the supervision focused on the
project compliance with institutional and financial management provisions, the selection process
of consultants for institutional studies and capacity strengthening initiatives, and the procurement
of TB3 and SSH contracts. Financial management aspects were closely supervised by the Bank
Financial Specialist of the project team who, in addition to participating in supervision missions,
reviewed financial sections of quarterly progress reports and analyzed the annual audit reports.
The Bank also closely monitored the competitive selection of private operators for airports
management contracts, although EHCAAN was advised by its own financial advisor. A key
milestone for the development of private sector involvement in the airport sector was achieved
early on during implementation through the signature of two contracts in December 2004, one for
Cairo and one for regional airports. EHCAAN was advised by its own financial advisor.

The Bank thoroughly supervised the procurement of contractors ­ especially on TB3 ­ as well as
contracts implementation and provided many no objections. At the outset (April 2004), the Bank
organized a procurement workshop on the selection of consultants under Bank Financed Projects.
It was attended by about fifty participants from key departments of EHCAAN and affiliates. A
five-day workshop on procuring works under Bank Financed Projects was also held in Cairo in
June 2004. The biggest task consisted in the review of the number of design changes made all
along the implementation of TB3 contract, and to a much lesser extent, SSH contract. Under the
former the Bank had to review over 167 Contract Variation Notices (CVN) - and finally cleared
them given positive impacts on the terminal quality and performance. Six requests for extension
of time amounting altogether to 679 days were also submitted to the Bank under the TB3
contract. To embed technical expertise in the supervision team, the Bank hired an airport engineer
consultant. During implementation, the Bank had to issue a number of procurement No
Objections. One explanation is the complexity of the issues associated with the procurement of
such large contracts.

On safeguards, the environment specialist in the Bank team closely supervised the
implementation of the EMP and the Bank usefully advised EHCAAN, CAC, and EAC in many
instances on a series of design issues for environment protection equipment. The Bank also
provided guidance on the terms of reference for the training initiative on environment and
reviewed the training material.

Under the institutional and capacity strengthening component, after a series of exchanges with
EHCAAN to finalize the TORs of institutional studies, the Bank provided detailed comments on
the draft reports during implementation with a view to help the EHCAAN and the Ministry of
Civil Aviation take fully into account the consultants' recommendations.

The additional loan justified by cost overruns was swiftly processed by the Board on January 30,
2008, three months from the date of the request.

Supervision missions took place about every three months during 2004 ­ 2005, then every six
months, which was reasonable, given the complexity of the project and the initial lack of
                                                16
knowledge of the implementing agencies of Bank's procedures. All supervision missions assessed
progress of the project as well as the fiduciary and safeguards aspects. There were two Task
Team Leaders since project inception, and the second took charge right before negotiations which
helped ensure continuity. The rapid turnover of fiduciary specialists should be noted, although
that has not significantly affected the Bank's performance. Supervision mission teams always
included the airport engineer and addressed fiduciary and safeguard issues.

Throughout implementation, the project Development Objective was rated Satisfactory, until
January 2009, when it was upgraded to Highly Satisfactory, further to the resolution of issues
under negotiation with the contractor on the contract completion date and the effective handover
of TB3 facility. The Overall Implementation Progress was rated Satisfactory, early on during
implementation, then upgraded to Highly Satisfactory in March 2005 to be downgraded to
Satisfactory in March 2006, when the Bank found that delays in implementing construction
contracts of TB3 and SSH had significantly increased, and was advised about cost variations
exceeding the threshold of Bank's no objection under the first contract. The successive revisions
to the above ratings are, therefore, relevant.

The team rated the project management Highly Satisfactory until January 2009, when it lowered
the rating to Satisfactory. However, there were reasons to lower this rating earlier, given the
various implementation issues related to TB3, faced by EHCAAN and CAC, since March 2006.

Given the generally consistent good performance of the Bank, the overall implementation rating
is Highly Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

For an Investment Loan, the full completion of the project by the closing date, despite the large
financial commitment and the fact that the EHCAAN had no prior experience working with the
Bank, has been a significant success. As for many other large-scale and complex construction
projects, delays in the construction program and significant cost overruns resulted in an additional
financing. Those issues were satisfactorily addressed during supervision with the Bank's
assistance through regular supervision missions and provision of No Objections, although the
underlying construction and cost risks of such large projects, especially TB3, could have been
better appreciated at preparation through larger contingencies.

An important additional element for assessing the Bank's performance is the Borrower' high
satisfaction with the transfer of knowledge and best practices and its praise of the Bank's
responsiveness and the value added of its support. The Bank performance under the project was
also instrumental in restoring GOE's confidence in the Bank's ability to address critical
development issues for Egypt.

For the above reasons and in view of consistent ratings of both dimensions, the overall Bank
performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.




                                                17
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Government's continued ownership and extreme commitment to achieving the development
objectives were a very positive factor through the various stages of project definition, preparation,
and implementation.

The request for a Bank loan by the Minister of Finance in response to the Minister of Civil
Aviation's concerns about the financing of the airport sector evidenced the high level of
Government's commitment from the outset. This high level involvement ensured the basic policy
support which presided over the preparation and implementation. Government's commitment
also materialized with the Letter of Sector Policy signed by the Minister of Civil Aviation before
negotiations, to state Government's objectives and policy for the development of air transport and
its gradual liberalization.

Further to the Board's decision, the Government swiftly met the conditions of effectiveness,
including the approval of the Loan by Parliament in June 2004, the establishment of a fully
staffed PMU as of July 1, 2004, the signature of agreements between EHCAAN, CAC and EAC
by the end of June 2004 and that of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on July 22, 2004. The
Steering Committee had been set up earlier in March 2004.

Throughout implementation the Government demonstrated the extreme seriousness of its support
to the transformation of the air transport sector. Thus, management contracts of Cairo and country
airports entered into force in early 2005. Passengers fees were increased in 2007, upon the
recommendation of the Higher Council for Price Strategy, established in 2004. Finally, conditions
for opening new air transport services were simplified and the MCA opened Cairo airport to
charter lines in early 2009.

Based on the above, Government Performance rating is Highly Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The higher management of EHCAAN and affiliates, CAC and EAC, was fully supportive of the
project throughout preparation and implementation, and their in-depth involvement was
instrumental in steering it to success through implementation issues. However, the physical
implementation of works was slower than expected and costs were higher than planned, to some
extent due to factors out of the Borrower's grasp and implementing agencies' direct control.

EHCAAN and affiliates devoted significant efforts to accelerate preparation. The availability of a
detailed design for TB3, and the well advanced studies for SSH at the beginning of preparation,
enabled CAC and EAC to start drafting bidding documents right at the beginning of project
preparation and resulted in the tender for TB3 works in December 2003 (following the Bank's no
objection) and for SSH terminal, in April 2004. This was instrumental in ensuring a swift project
start.



                                                 18
EHCAAN and affiliated fully implemented arrangements stated in the Project Agreement.
Among others, EHCAAN appointed the head of the PMU in May 2004 and key positions
advertised in local newspapers were filled in by the end of June 2004. EAC and CAC hired
procurement officers shortly afterwards and financial officers as well. Despite some turnover
during implementation, EHCAAN always maintained the capacity of the PMU until project
completion. The PMU was highly effective in coordinating project implementation, addressing
fiduciary matters, monitoring M&E indicators and preparing high quality progress reports. For
the implementation of measures prescribed by the EMP, EHCAAN hired an environmental
consultant in September 2004 and his contract was effective until the completion of works.

At the same time, the implementation of TB3 works and ITS contract, and of SSH contract to a
much lesser extent, ran into serious issues, sometimes unforeseen and outside the control of the
implementing agencies. For example, CAC had to redesign parts of TB3 to meet new seismic
rules for construction in Egypt and ICAO updated international security rules. TB3 bidding
documents were also issued before the IT system was fully designed, which led to revisions of
bidding documents and extensions of contract end dates. The most difficult issue was the ITS, as
detailed above. This and various design changes decided during contrition were very challenging
and led to further delays and unplanned cost increases, which CAC had to finance out of its own
resources and the additional loan. All issues were finally resolved, construction could go through
until completion, and the terminal is fully operational.

SSH contract was also affected by significant delays due to the regular closing of the works site
motivated by security measures for official visits resulting in final cost significantly above the
initial contract amount. Nevertheless, this second terminal is fully operational, gives satisfaction
to EAC and is highly appreciated by passengers.

Despite the overall excellent performance of EHCAAN and affiliates, the significant delays in the
completion of TB3 and large cost overruns could have been mostly addressed by more thorough
design studies and delaying tender by a few weeks, notably to complete the IT system design
beforehand.

Therefore, due to the above minor shortcomings, the rating is Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In addition to completing fully operational new terminals at Cairo and SSH which accommodate
the large traffic increases since the project launch, the Government enhanced liberalization and
privatization in the sector, and the continuing presence of two experienced airport operators
should ensure a good transition for future operations. There had also been significant growth in
employment at the Cairo airport platform.

Due to the Satisfactory rating in one instance, the overall Borrower's performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn from the project:

    ·   Sector reform can only be progressive and the Bank's support through a large scale
        investment lending operation can make a difference, if provided through an early
                                                19
        dialogue during implementation, and focused on strategic aspects, high policy advice, and
        game changing issues.

    ·   Management contracts are an effective PPP model to foster the modernization of
        economically viable public entities, enhance operational and financial performance, and
        transfer know-how, especially when private partners are competitively selected at an
        early stage, on the basis of well prepared bidding documents.

    ·   Large infrastructure investments like airports can successfully contribute to a country's
        economic development, through regional integration, facilitation of trade, increased
        currency earning tourism, and direct job creation from attracted economic activities when
        a critical mass is achieved.

    ·   The Bank's attention and responsiveness during preparation and a strong support all
        along the project implementation is instrumental for the success of a project.

    ·   The demonstration of solid knowledge and timely delivery of projects enhances the
        Bank-country relationship.

    ·   Government's commitment and ownership of the project is essential.

    ·   Full support and attention of the implementing entity's management and a strong Project
        Management Unit (PMU) are critical.

    ·   The quality, completeness, and relevance of the design, as well as a strong engineer
        during construction, can significantly contribute to controlling final costs.

    ·   In future airport operations, as terminal construction projects involve integrated facilities,
        a single turnkey contractor should carry out all works, equipment supply, as well as the
        responsibility of sub-contracting the IT system, rather than have two separate contracts,
        one for terminal works and equipment, and a second one for the IT system.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower prepared its own completion report, which summarizes the storyline of the project,
describes main events during implementation and confirms outputs. The report also evaluates the
achievement of project objectives through results of monitoring indicators. Outcomes and key
performance indicators confirm the viability of the PDOs and highlight the project positive
impact on the civil aviation sector. The Borrower stresses that results achieved throughout
implementation and the way Government, stakeholders, and the Bank responded to substantial
challenges faced during the previous five years of implementation until project completion,
contributed to an improved image of the Egyptian airports and associated services.

The Borrower candidly acknowledges issues that affected implementation, especially cost
overruns and extensions of time under both contracts and delays in procuring TB3 IT system. In
addition, the following benefits from collaborating with the Bank are highlighted in this report:
    · The very fruitful learning process from using World Bank's guidelines and procedures;

    ·   First time use of standardized performance indicators to guide in forecasts updates and
        plan ahead;

    ·   The vital role of the PMU in smoothing implementation and reporting.

                                                 20
    ·   The positive discipline from regular World Bank missions and reports.

    ·   The value added of the Bank's review of consultants' reports.

    ·   The positive outcome of the consultation process on environment issues in terms of
        developing a common understanding.

    ·   The added value from public media coverage and public awareness of the project
        investment, economic, and environmental aspects.

Finally, the Borrower acknowledges lessons for future contracts, in terms of using an up-to-date
design for bidding documents, keeping realistic construction schedules, and integrating an IT
system into the main contract for new terminals.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                               21
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                                                           Percentage of
                Components                     Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                            Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
CONSTRUCTION OF A THIRD
TERMINAL AT CAIRO INTERNATONAL
AIRPORT (TB3) AND ENABLING
WORKS.                                                                           108
                                                         8.6          9.3
- Enabling works                                                                 122
                                                       383.5        469.0
- Terminal                                                                       139
                                                        61.8         86
- Runway                                                                         124
                                                       453.9        564.3
Total
 CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW
TERMINAL AT SHARM EL SHEIKH
AIRPORT AND ENABLING WORKS
                                                                                  65
- Enabling works                                         2.3          1.5
                                                                                 135
- Terminal                                              56.8         76.9
                                                                                 133
Total                                                   59.1         78.4
STRENGTHENING SECTOR
OPERATIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
-IT equipment                                            2.1           0.5        23
- Environment equipment                                  1.3           1.8       140
- Studies locally financed (CAC and EAC)                17.9           0.1
- Studies Bank financed                                  5.0           1.7        35
Total                                                   26.3           4.1
                         Total Baseline Cost           539.3         646.8
Physical Contingencies                                  38.6           0.0        0
Price Contingencies                                       -4.0         0.0        0
                         Total Project Costs           573.9         646.8
Front-end fee IBRD                                        3.3          1.775      54
Total Financing Required                               577.2         648.58      113


(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                242.3      275.775       114
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          335.00     375.0        112
and Development




                                               22
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Construction of TB3 in CAI

The new terminal more than doubled the capacity of CAI with a new capacity of 11 million
passengers annually (6 million International and 5 million Domestic passengers per annum). TB3
is located adjacent to Terminal 2, and the two terminals are connected by a bridge. The terminal
processes all international and domestic flights of the national carrier Egypt Air and its domestic
subsidiary Egypt Air Express, as well as Star Alliance partner airlines.

TB3 project was comprised of the construction of a terminal building in addition to airside and
landside works. The total built up area is 209,274 m2, including the associated buildings which
are: power plant, sewage plant, water tank 18 000 m3 and apron control tower. The project meets
the ICAO standards, as well as the Egyptian seismic codes.

The terminal features a main building and two connected fingers A and B with 3 main levels
processing all departures and arrivals: the first level serves international arrivals; the second level
is dedicated to international departures, and the third level to domestic flights. The two fingers
have 15 contact stands of which 5 with multiple uses, and each finger can accommodate A380
category planes. Holding lounges allow services for 23 aircraft simultaneously, in addition to 37
remote stands of which 4 stands for A380. A skyway connects TB3 with TB2 which will enable
joint operations of both terminals, once TB2 is reconstructed with Bank support.

The terminal is outfitted with the latest technology in baggage handling system which can process
up to 4800 items of luggage per hour for departure, and 1200 bags hour for arrival. The airside
has 35 departure belts and 12 arrival belts. The system is equipped with 6 screening machines.

TB3 is equipped with advanced IT system for airport and airline passenger specially-developed
for it. Systems are designed to eventually include terminal 1 and 2.

The terminal inaugurated on December 18, 2008, was partially opened for traffic in April 2009
for a ramp up period which ended in July 2009, when all Egypt air flights and those of its partners
in Star Alliance were moved to TB3.

Component 2: Construction of New Terminal Building in SSH

The new terminal developed under the project can accommodate 4.5 million passengers per
annum, thereby bringing the capacity of SSH airport to 7 million passengers. The building
includes architectural specificities with tent like roofs covering the international Departure and
arrival halls. The new terminal building comprises two main levels. The ground level is the main
level for passengers' circulation from city side, where most of the passengers' facilities are
located.

The check-in counters, passport control, and public hall complemented with retail areas and food
outlets are located at the departure hall. The arrival hall comprises the domestic arrival hall,
international arrival hall with visa processing area, immigration control area, baggage claim,
customs control, and a public hall with duty free, banks and other respective facilities. The lower
level of the building is the level of the apron, where the main waiting area of the concourse, duty
free and retails, and the hold gates are all located. On the opposite side, are two arrival gates for
domestic and international passengers.

                                                  23
The first domestic flight landed on April 16, 2007 under a trial period and the official
inauguration took place on May 24, 2007, with a full opening to commercial traffic on June 11,
2007.

Component 3: Strengthening Sector Operations and Environmental Management

Technical Studies and Technical Assistance

All technical studies under the project were successfully completed. EHCAAN and affiliates
formed technical committees to consider the recommendations of final reports, including
liberalizing air transport, developing an air cargo strategy, building airport management capacity,
formulating national airports master plan, and strengthening sector management capacity.

1-Formulation of the Liberalization Study:

Contract amount:        US$260,900
Signature date:         05/29/2005
End date:               04/16/2006

In accordance with the study recommendations, the following actions were taken:
               Charter flights are permitted in all Egyptian airports.

                Competition law provides protection and prevents monopoly.

                40 licenses awarded for passenger transport.

                5 licenses awarded for cargo transport.

                Gradual liberalization is ongoing with 25 bilateral agreements signed and
                negotiations ongoing for 42 additional agreements.

                20 code sharing agreements in force.

                Pricing policy of airports was modified.

                Civil Aviation law 28 of year 1981was amended.

2-The Airport Management Capacity Building Study:

Contract amount:        US$298,335
Signature date:         6/6/2005
End date:               19/9/2006

Results:
     Improved organization charts for the Egyptian Holding Company for Airport and Air
     Navigation and its subsidiaries.

      Improved human resources procedures manual and bylaws.

      Training plan for each subsidiary.

      Improved IT system to communicate between the different management levels.

      Improved earnings rates of employees; average salaries increased 269 per cent since 2003.

                                                24
3-The National Strategy of Developing Air Cargo Study:

Contract Amount:        EUR 277,500
Signature date:         5/8/2005
End date:               12/12/2005

Results:
     Air Cargo Association­Cairo (AC2) established with the following main objectives:

       ·   Support and manage the interest of the Cargo industry of Egypt by enhancing the
           communication, coordination and cooperation between all stakeholders.

       ·   Set up measures to enhance the Cargo industry at the Airport.

       ·   Maintain and manage excellent relationships with relevant ministries and authorities.

     Studies on the import procedures to develop the IT system available in the existing
     warehouse facilities and to accelerate the Customs process.

     Cargo Agents: Civil Aviation submitted a project to certify the Cargo agents in the market
     to be officially licensed for cargo activities to impose more control and reject intruders.

     Egypt Air ­ Cargo: A feasibility study to develop Egypt Air Cargo terminal (Cargo
     Village) ­ the construction is taking place at this stage to meet international standards and
     the Cargo future vision at Cairo Airport.

     Existing Cargo Facilities Development:

       ·   Beside the renovation of Egypt Air warehouse, other warehouses in the area were
           improved or expanded.

   Complete renovation of the Egypt Post building for better mail handling.

   Plan to introduce E-Freight for all Airlines in Cairo, by the end of 2009.

   Safety and Security: introducing personnel X-ray gates in all Cargo facilities to impose more
   control and avoid unlawful admittance, in particular, in the restricted areas.

   Warehouse regulation: CAC is working with Civil Aviation Authorities and Egypt Air Cargo
   and to produce a proper document that will govern Cargo activities, process, security,
   handling, safety and fire fighting, training, and equipment requirements.

   Development of new Cargo Facilities at Cairo Airport: Egypt ambition is to develop its Air
   Cargo sector into a larger and more profitable industry with Cairo International
   Airport.serving as a successful international Cargo hub. The major objective of the national
   strategy for Air Cargo is to stimulate and develop, in the long term, a financial and healthy air
   Cargo industry in Egypt.

4-Preparation of National Airport Master Plan

Contract amount:        US$ 530,699 and L.E 229,185
Signature date:         6/2/2005
End date:               8/20/2007

                                                25
Results:

The need to coordinate investment plans for Egypt's Airports was eminent as development
progressed to accommodate the much increased passenger's flow, especially for tourism purposes.
It was, therefore, compulsory to prepare a 20 year Master Plan. This plan addressed:
      overall country strategy for the development of airport infrastructure; sequence and
      optimize investments;

      guidance on future development of private concessions;

      funding scheme of infrastructure, identifying responsibility for maintenance; and

      issues faced by small airports such as tailoring subsidies to identify socioeconomic
      functions.

The Master Plan Module, produced by the international consultant was used to train EHCAAN's
officials. The plan was continuously adjusted to take into account the unprecedented traffic
growth (especially in SSH). The plan has been instrumental in accelerating the decision to build
another terminal and a runway in SSH, and implement other investment plans in Egypt
international airports.

5- External Auditor

Contract amount:        L.E 241,061
Signature date:         3/30/2005
End Date:               12/15/2009
                        (contract was amended in July, 2007 to extend the Auditor Contract to
                        cover the closing of the Loan Agreement)

Environmental Management

Two Environmental Management Units (EMUs) were established in CAC and EAC to monitor
the project EMP and develop environment practices within Egyptian airports for the first time.
EAC management has already started to implement environmental measures on landside and
imposes fines on the violating party. Concerning the implementation on airside, ICAO standards
are being adopted and implementation will commence as soon as executive measures are
certified.

6- Environmental Consultant

Contract amount:        EGP 289,000
Signature date:         9/23/2004
End date:               06/15/2008

The consultant supervised the implementation of the EMP, assisted the PMU to establish
Environmental Management Units (EMU) and assisted in procuring and installing the air and
noise monitoring systems. The consultant also provided training on environmental issues to the
EMUs. Advanced environmental training conducted by a specialized firm contributed to building
the capacity of the EMU staff. The consultant coordinated closely with the project management to
address all environment concerns during the construction of terminals in CAI and SSH, regarding
the treatment of hazardous waste and solid waste, the construction and rehabilitation of

                                                26
chlorination stations associated with airports and the implementation of other environment
measures.

7- Environmental Training

Contract Amount:        EUR108, 221 and L.E. 408,663
Signature date:         10/27/2005
End Date:               09/21/2006

8- Advanced Environmental Training

Contract amount:        US$149,645
Signature date:         12/03/2006
End date:               09/04/2007

9- Noise Measurement for CAC and EAC

Contract amount:        EGP 272,984
Signature date:         09/12/2005
End Date:               01/15/2006

2. Goods Procurement

The Financial Management System and environmental equipment were successfully installed and
the designated staff was trained to effectively utilize them.

1- IT equipment for the Financial Management System (FMS)

Contract amount:        US$552,044
Signature date:         09/18/2005
End Date:               06/15/2008

2-Environmental Equipment

2.1 Noise Monitoring System (LOT # I)

Contract Amount:        EURO 742,957
Signature date:         06/29/06
End date:               07/2/2006

Twelve Noise Monitoring Terminals were installed in CAI, and after the completion of the new
runway, two other terminals were expected to be installed. In addition, eight other terminals were
installed in SSH.

2.2 Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (LOT # II)

Contract amount:        EGP 5,447,835
Signature date:         07/5/2006
End Date:               10/29/2006

Two Air Monitoring Units were installed in CAI and one unit in SSH.

                                               27
                            Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic Analysis for Cairo Airport

Main Assumptions Used for the TB3 Economic and Comparison with the PAD

Traffic at Cairo

Traffic data were revised to take into account: (i) the rapid growth until 2008 (+11.9 percent
annually) driven by tourism and the transformation of Cairo into a hub; (ii) the impact of the
economic crisis which has stopped growth so far. With the project, passenger traffic would
accordingly grow at 0 percent in 2009/2010, 5.4 percent annually during 2010/2011­2013/2014,
then 3.3 percent under the best case scenario (same percentages for each category of traffic). The
above figure can be compared to PAD forecasts of 3.5 percent annually from 2002. Domestic
charter and business related traffic was escalated at just one percent p.a. between 2008 to 2015,
thereafter at 0.5 percent p.a. beyond 2015, assuming that no growth of these traffic segments
would be unrealistic.

Without the project, it was expected that traffic would not grow beyond fourteen million
passengers p.a. (traffic handled by CAI in FY2007/2008 before the opening of TB3).

Tariffs

Departure fees were increased to US$15 per international passenger, and US$3 per domestic
passenger in 2007. Tariff increases were substantial, but remained market-based. Because of the
increased commercial spaces, commercial income per passenger increased to US$4.8 in the first
half of 2009. This trend remained unchanged over the evaluation period (vs. US$2.9 in the PAD
for the year 2008). Revenue from other sources will be based on the same rates.

Expenses

Additional working expenses would be incurred as a result of TB3 operations.

Benefits for Cairo TB3 (Table 5)

As in the PAD, it is assumed that benefits would accrue as a result of:

          Existing traffic. With the project, the 14 million passengers received in Cairo, would
          benefit from an improved level of service once TB3 is opened. Since the expenditure in
          Egypt by each foreign visitor did not increase substantially from 2004 estimates, the same
          as the US$3 rate for each passenger in the PAD.

          Additional traffic. Traffic that would not come to Cairo because of capacity bottlenecks
          would generate benefit based on the tariff that would apply to them (close to US$11 per
          passenger vs. US$10 in the PAD, excluding incremental revenue from commercial
          functions).

          Incremental commercial revenue base. The revenue base expanded, as a result of more
          space and more commercially oriented management, brought in under the management
          contract. The economic analysis assumes that the commercial and rental revenue earned
          by CAC would raise to US$4.8 equivalent per in-and-out international passenger, from an

                                                 28
       estimated revenue of US$1.8 under conditions at appraisal and based on the CAC
       Statement of Income for FY2008.

       Revenue netted by Egypt from tourism. Without the project, it is assumed that not all
       tourists lost to Cairo would be lost to Egypt. As in the PAD the evaluation retains a net
       benefit to Egypt of tourist (namely US$22) and applies it to half of in-and-out tourist
       traffic.

                                 Table 5: Economic Evaluation TB3
Year   Investment    O/M costs   Existing   Added         Tourism     Commerce       Net
       costs (US$   (US$ mios)   Traffic    traffic       benefits    (US$ mios)   benefits
          mios)                   (mio)      (mio)       (US$ mios)
2003
2004   8.4                                                                         -8.4
2005   67.1                                                                        -67.1
2006   58.4                                                                        -58.4
2007   167.6                                                                       -167.6
2008   218.5                                                                       -218.5
2009   78.7         21.5         35.6                                 33.9         -32.4
2010   0.2          21.1         35.6       7.4          3.2          35.8         60.7
2011                20.7         35.6       15.8         7.4          37.7         75.8
2012                20.7         35.6       24.8         11.7         39.7         91.1
2013                20.7         35.6       34.2         16.2         41.9         107.2
2014                20.7         35.6       44.2         20.9         44.1         124.1
2015                20.8         35.6       50.6         24.3         45.6         135.2
2016                20.8         35.6       57.2         27.3         47.1         146.3
2017                20.8         35.6       64.0         30.3         48.6         157.7
2018                20.8         35.6       71.1         33.4         50.2         169.5
2019                20.8         35.6       78.3         36.7         51.9         181.7
2020                20.8         35.6       85.9         40.0         53.6         194.3
2021                20.8         35.6       93.6         43.4         55.4         207.2
2022                20.8         35.6       101.7        46.9         57.2         220.6
2023                20.8         35.6       110.0        50.5         59.1         234.4
2024                20.8         35.6       118.6        54.2         61.1         248.6
2025                20.8         35.6       127.4        58.1         63.1         263.3
2026                20.8         35.6       136.6        62.0         65.1         278.5
2027                20.8         35.6       146.0        66.0         67.3         294.1
2028                20.8         35.6       155.8        70.2         69.5         310.3
2029   -299.5       20.8         35.6       165.9        74.5         71.8         626.4
                                            ERR                                        17.2%
                                            NPV                              US$422 million




                                                    29
                               B. Economic Analysis for Sharm el Sheikh Airport

Traffic at Sharm El Sheikh

With the project, the international passenger traffic would grow annually by 5.5 percent from
2009/2010, which takes into account the impact of the economic downturn after the rapid growth
during 2002/2003 ­ 2008/2009 and refers to estimates by the ACI1; domestic traffic would grow
by two percent. Based on these assumptions for long­term growth and the actual traffic in 2008,
the airport's overall capacity of around 8 million passengers would be saturated by 2015. Once
the new capacity is saturated, international traffic could not increase further, which would be
consistent with an overall capacity constraint.

Without the project, existing capacities would have saturated further from early 2006 and overall
traffic would have stagnated even more. Domestic traffic is still assumed to grow by around
0.5% until 2015, consistent with the PAD.

Expenses

Investment costs are expressed in constant dollars.Working expenses, which are limited to
operation and maintenance of the new terminal building, are estimated at US$8.5 million in 2006.
They will grow at the same pace as traffic.

Benefits

             Additional traffic. Benefits are based on an average revenue of US$9 per passenger,
             excluding incremental commercial revenue, as originally estimated in 2004.

             Expansion of the commercial revenue base. The "with project" international traffic would
             spend an incremental US$2.5 per passenger, using the data prepared by the PMU for the
             monitoring indices.

             Revenue netted by Egypt from tourism. Average spending by tourist is taken as the one
             calculated for CAI, or some US$850 net of taxes. Accordingly, it is estimated that on
             average, about US$2.2 per international passenger would be lost. This is consistent with
             the revenue of the PAD, updated with traffic volume of 2008.

             Time savings. Most passengers come to vacation, and time lost in transit has no impact on
             economic production.




1
    Airport Council International


                                                     30
                         Table 6: Economic Evaluation - Sharm El Sheikh
                                                                      Benefits
       International   Initial          O&M
                                                         Additional   from        Commerce        Net
Year   passengers      Investment      Costs (US$
                                                         traffic      tourism     (US$ million)   Benefits
       (million)       (US$ million)   million)
                                                                      traffic
2003          2.841
2004          4.014                                                                                          0
2005           4.13            19.6                                                                     -19.6
2006          4.439            78.5             8.5                                                     -87.0
2007             5.9                           11.9                         3.2           14.8
2008             7.1                           12.5                         5.9           17.8
2009             7.5                           13.2                         6.7           18.7
2010             7.9                           13.8                         7.7           19.8
2011             8.4                           14.5                         8.6           20.9
2012             8.8                           15.2                         9.7           22.1
2013             9.3                           16.0                      10.7             23.3
2014             9.8                           16.8                      11.9             24.6
2015           10.1                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2016           10.4                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2017           10.8                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2018           11.1                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2019           11.4                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2020           11.8                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2021           12.1                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2022           12.5                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2023           12.8                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2024           13.2                            16.8                      12.5             24.6
2025           13.6            -39.2           16.8                      12.5             24.6


                               98.1                                   ERR                   0.1        37.8%
                                                                                                      US$278
                                                                      NPV                   0.1        million




                                                    31
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                            Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Archi Ben Achour           Lead Social Development Specialist AFTCS
Elena Gagieva-Petrova      Program Assistant                   FPDVP
Hany Shalaby               E T Consultant                            Environment
Hisham Waly                Sr. Financial Management Specialist MNAC
                                                                  S
Hocine Chalal              Regional Safeguards Advisor         MNAC
                                                                  S
James A. Reichert          Sr. Infrastructure Specialist       EASCS
Klaas Peel                 Aviation Specialist
Michel Loir                                                          TTL
Michel Bellier             Lead Transport Specialist           MNSS
                                                                     TTL
                                                                 D
Panneer Selvam             Regional Safeguards Advisor          EAPC
                                                                 O
Sherif Arif                Consultant
Hovsep M. Melkonian        Consultant                          AFTRL
James A. Reichert          Sr. Infrastructure Specialist       EASCS

Supervision/ICR
Abduljabbar Hasan Al Qathab Senior Procurement Specialist     MNAPR
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein Sr. Financial Management
                                                              MNAFM
El-Shorbagi                 Specialist
Badr Kamel                  Sr. Procurement Specialist        MNAPR
Elisabeth Sherwood          Financial Analyst                 AFTU1
Hassine Hedda               Finance Analyst                   LOADM
Hocine Chalal               Regional Safeguards Adviser       MNACS
James A. Reichert           Sr. Infrastructure Specialist     EASCS
Maged Mahmoud Hamed         Sr. Environmental Spec.           MNSSD
Maiada Mahmoud Abdel Fatt Consultant Financial Management
Kassem
Michel Bellier              Lead Transport Specialist         MNSSD TTL
Mikael Sehul Mengesha       Sr. Procurement Specialist        MNAPR
Mohamed Yehia El Karim      Financial Management Specialist   MNACS
Fatiha Amar                 Program Assistant                 MNSSD




                                           32
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                       Table 7: Allocation of Staff Time and Costs
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                         14                         52.83
  FY04                                         59                        342.14
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                          Total:               73                        394.97
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                     0.00
  FY04                                         11                         70.32
  FY05                                         40                        198.05
  FY06                                         38                        159.81
  FY07                                         29                        197.24
  FY08                                         18                        132.16
  FY09                                          7                          0.00
                          Total:             143                         757.58




                                            33
                                                 Annex 5. Monitoring Indicators

                                                    Table 8: Outcome indicators
                Monitoring Indicators                                 Baseline                                           Target Values

                   Outcome Indicators                                  20032               2004             2005                2006           2007           2008
      Traffic Development at CAI - million pass.                      8.7 .mil           9.0 mil.         9.3 mil.            9.6 mil.       10.0 mil.     10.3 mil.
         (domestic and international) Actual                          8.4 mil            9.5 mil.         10.2 mil            10.8 mil       12.6 mil      14.3 mil
               Traffic Development at SSH                             3.2 mil.           3.5 mil.         3.8 mil.            3.9 mil.        4.2 mil.      4.3 mil.
          (domestic and international) Actual                         3.4 mil.           4.6 mil.         4.8 mil.            5.1 mil.        6.4 mil.      7.8 mil.
        Occupancy Rate at Peak Hour at TB3 ­                          6.8 / 5.3          7.1 / 5.5        7.3 / 5.7           7.5 / 6.3      1.0 / 1.0      1.0 / 1.0
    domestic / international Actual arrival (actual                                                                            0.9/2.1       0.4/1.26       0.48/1.0
           traffic/rated capacity) departure                                                                                                 0.96/1.03     0.89/1.25
        Occupancy Rate at Peak Hour at SSH ­                          1.2 / 2.3          1.2 / 1.4         1.2 / 1.5          .35 / .75      .37 / .80      .38 / .80
      domestic / international        Actual (actual                                                                             1.4            1.94       0.72-0.83
                   traffic/rated capacity)
    Processing Times for Arriving Passengers at CAI                    34 / 41            36 / 46          38 / 51            40 / 56         25 / 35       25 / 35
                (minutes)               Actual                                                                                  30              29            30

     Processing Times for Departing Passengers at                      35 / 65            37 / 70          39 / 75            41 / 80         20 / 45       20 / 45
            CAI (minutes)            Actual                                                                                     45              45            45
Processing Times for Arriving Passengers at SSH                        30 / 45            30 / 45          20 / 40            20 / 35         20 / 35       20 / 35
      ­ domestic / international (minutes)3                                                                  74                 54                            19
                     Actual
     Processing Times for Departing Passengers at                      60 / 75            36 / 45          36 / 45            30 / 40         30 / 40       30 / 40
       SSH ­ domestic / international (minutes)4
                       Actual                                                                                 54                 33                           13

                                                     Table 9: Results Indicators
                       Results Indicators for                                                2003        2004          2005           2006          2007      2008
                        Each Component
                        Component One :                                                  n.a.          0%           25%           50%             75%        100%.
Percentage of project completed (TB3 and new runway)                      Actual                       0%           14.1%         26.5%         60%        87.7%



                        Component Two :                                                      0%        5%           50%           80%           100%       n.a.
Percentage of project completed (new terminal)                 Actual                                  23.2%        23.2%         70%           100%

                              Component Three:                                                                                          x
                1) Airport Master Plan adopted by MCA.                                                              x
    2) CAI opened to foreign charters, private domestic air services.
            3) Feasibility study CAI Cargo Village approved.
        4) - consultant hired to implement EMPS (CAI & SSH).                             x

                     - Equipment installed                                                                                              x       x
5) Training completed, systems installed at EHCAAN and affiliates.




2
  Expected where indicated otherwise, figures are for 2003.
3
  Processing times for arriving international passengers at SSH exceed those at CAI because many tourists arrive without visas, which must be processed
on the spot.
4
  Processing times for departing international passengers at SSH exceed those at CAI because of the many charter flights at SSH, all of which have
similar departure times and create bunching effect.
                                                                         33
          Baseline                                             Target Values
    Outcome Indicators         2003        2004             2005          2006         2007         2008
Commercial Revenue per          2.1         2.2              2.4           2.5          2.7          2.9
Passenger at CAI              2.0-2.3     2.4-2.7          3.8-4.1       3.4-3.7      3.5-3.8      4.0-4.4
 (in US$)
Actual
Commercial Revenue per         2.4         5.4              5.2            5.4         5.5           5.6
Passenger at SSH                                                                       4.8           4.5
 (in US$)
Actual
Passenger per Staff Ratio      2260        2350             2470          2600         2750         2900
at CAI                         2135        2441             2850          2812         3290         3512
 (total CAI pass. / total
CAC staff) Actual
Passenger per Staff Ratio     30769       31250            31932         30232        30215        28666
at SSH                        28292       37971            39261         35520        25030        23317
  (total SSH pass. / total
SSH staff) Actual
MCA Certification, Based       n.a.        n.a.             SSH            n.a.        n.a.         CAI
on ICAO Standards,
Obtained for CAI/SSH
Actual                                                                                SSH
Foreign Exchange              1,260       1,289            1,333          1,380       1,424        1,481
Earnings from Tourism at      1080        1590             1789           1963        2316         2564
CAI (in US$ million)
Actual
Foreign Exchange              1,001       1,095            1,189          1,220       1,314        1,360
Earnings from Tourism at       815        1318             1515           1738        2334         2844
SSH (in US$ million)
Actual
Exports at CAI (in tons)     124,894     127,392        129,940         132,539      135,190      137,893
Actual                                   148,000        146,500         158,700      171,300       172483
Imports at CAI (in tons)      75,369      76,877         78,414          79,982       81,582       83,213
Actual                                    70,600         82,500          91,600      101,100       107778
Private Sector Airport       12,700 /    12,700 /       12,700 /        12,700 /     12,700 /     12,700 /
Service Delivery Jobs at      6,275       6,275          6,275           6,275         6,275        8,275
CAI (Egypt Air / other                                17,307/2641     16,985/2786   13911/6551   13473/7925
firms)
Actual
Private Sector Airport       286 / 256   308 / 286        332 / 321     358 / 369    386 / 424    416 / 488
Service Delivery Jobs at                                  365/628                    1015/733
SSH (Egypt Air / other
firms)
Actual
Cumulative Private           $50 mil.                                                              >$80
Investment in Airport                                                                             million.
Infrastructure
Customer Satisfaction at     3.5 / 3.5     n.a.             n.a.        3.8 / 3.8      n.a.       4.4 / 4.4
CAI4                                                                    40-53%       46-89%       49-86%
 (arrivals / departures)
Actual
Customer Satisfaction at     3.0 / 3.3     n.a.             n.a.        4.0 / 4.0      n.a.       4.5 / 4.5
SSH                                                                       53%        33-45%          ??
(arrivals / departures)
Actual
Debt Service Coverage          5.3         n.a.             n.a.           n.a.        1.3           1.3
Ratio for CAC                  4.1         4.5              7.0            6.1         4.7           4.9
Actual
Current Ratio for CAC          3.0         n.a.             n.a.          n.a.         1.0          1.0
Actual                         0.08        0.26             0.61          0.76         0.75         0.72
D      S       C

                                                     34
R     EAC
A




            Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  35
                            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR


Project Rationale

During the late nineties and the early years of 2000s the airport sector had experienced different
approaches in Public-Private financing on a limited scale, given that local airport investments
were overdue, but development plans were hindered by a deteriorating business climate for
infrastructure concessions worldwide. Private financing for airport development in Egypt was
therefore unlikely, and public financing for the proposed new terminals was the most valid
alternative.

The Airports Development Project was first presented to the Bank in January 2003. The World
Bank's involvement was to assist the Egyptian civil aviation sector in overcoming the traffic
bottlenecks, improving the level of service and promoting the direction towards removing
obstacles to private participation in airport infrastructure.

The Egyptian civil aviation management used growth scenarios forecasts before project inception
to predict capacity bottlenecks in main international airports. Actual traffic statistics largely
surpassed growth estimates especially in 2008 (in CAI 40 percent higher than PAD's estimation,
and in SSH 80 percent higher than PAD's estimation).

The following are actual traffic statistics in 2008:
   ¾ 80.7% of total traffic in Egyptian airports are international passengers (in CAI 80.5%
        while in SSH 86.6%, Hurghada 92.5%, Burg El-Arab 99.6%).
   ¾ 40.1% of Egypt's passenger traffic is handled at CAI compared to 50% in 2004 (PAD)
        marking significant growth in Egypt other international airports (SSH, Hurghada, Luxor,
        Aswan had the largest passenger traffic, respectively).
   ¾ Egypt's other International Airports experienced growth rates exceeding international
        norms.
   ¾ Annual passengers' growth in 2008 reached 14.2% in CAI, 20.8% in SSH, 13.4% in
        Hurghada, 147% in Luxor, and 9.7% in Aswan. The growth was in correlation with the
        completion of major development plans in these airports and the augmented tourism
        movements witnessed during 2007 and 2008, until the beginning of the global economic
        downturn which has deeply affected the aviation industry worldwide.
   ¾ Maximum rated capacity in CAI was 9 million passengers in 2004; traffic reached 10.7
        million in 2006. By the time TB3 was opened for operation in April 2009, annual traffic
        reached 14.4 million passengers. Current rated capacity of the airport is 21 million
        passengers p.a. (but will go down to 17.5 million p.a. when TB2 is closed for renovations
        and expansion plans).
   ¾ Sharm El-Sheikh Airport (SSH) still handles the second largest tourist traffic in Egypt
        since project appraisal. In the last ten years, SSH passengers' traffic grew five times.

Traffic congestion has put quality of service at risk and damaged Egypt's image, and hence
affected tourism inflows and foreign exchange revenues since tourism industry is the country's
biggest source of foreign currency. Egypt attracted a total of 12.8 million visitors in FY2008 and
earned $11 billion from tourism. In the second quarter of 2009, tourism revenue amounted to
about $2.6 billion, similar to the earlier year and signaling a recovery from a slump caused by the
global financial crisis.

The Bank rating of PDOs during project implementation has consistently been either
"satisfactory" or "highly satisfactory" and EHCAAN has thoroughly delivered reports content.


                                                36
Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Design

Project Objectives were to support the Borrower's efforts to eliminate capacity bottlenecks to
growth in airport traffic, raise the quality of services to international best practice standards at
Cairo International and Sharm El Sheikh Airports, and promote private sector participation in
airport management and service delivery.

Project outcomes and Key Performance Indicators reflected in this document confirm the viability
of the PDOs and highlight the project positive impact on the civil aviation sector. Results
achieved throughout implementation and the way the Government, stakeholders and the Bank
responded to substantial challenges faced during the five years of implementation until project
completion, reveal the serious commitment to improve the image of Egyptian airports and
associated services. This was also reflected in the level of profitability perceived by the sector, as
reflected in the income statements of the Owners.

Project Development Objectives Results Framework-Outcome Indicators

    ·   Eliminate capacity bottlenecks to growth in airport traffic

        a) Traffic growth at CAI and SSH: higher than expected passenger growth since the
           project's original forecasts at appraisal. It was higher than PAD estimate by 5% in
           2004 and by nearly 40% in 2008. The highest passenger traffic growth in CAI was
           recorded in Jan-08 with + 45.3% on a month-on-month comparison. In SSH, the
           highest was by 32% in Nov-08 on a month-on-month basis.

        b) Growth in tourism: foreign earnings from tourism in 2008 increased from an
           expected US$1,481 million to US$2,564 million in CAI (revenues has grown 2.4
           times since 2003); and from an expected US$1,360 million to US$2,844 million in
           SSH.

        c) Growth in cargo exports through CAI: after stagnating at around 200,000 tons p.a.
           from 1999 until project inception, cargo traffic has increased to 287,000 tons
           compared to the anticipated 221,000 tons. The Cairo Cargo City project, currently
           under implementation will add an additional capacity of 200,000 tons.

    ·   Raise the quality of services to international best practice standards at CAI and
        SSH

        a) Processing time in CAI and SSH:
        (i) passenger processing time in CAI for international arrival passengers reached an
             average of 33 min (PAD plan was up-to 35 min) compared to 41 min in 2003; and
             processing time for departure was on average 45 min (as planned) down from 65 min
             in the base-year.
        (ii) passenger processing time in SSH for international arrival passenger reached an
             average of 20 min (PAD plan was up-to 35 min) compared to 45 min in 2003; and
             processing time for departure reached 12 min on average down from 75 min in 2003.

        b) Certification for SSH from ICAO was issued on 13 Apr-08; the certification from
           ICAO for TB3 in CAI is in progress.



                                                 37
    ·   Promote private sector participation in airport management and service delivery

        a) Boosted airport commercial revenues.

        b) Developed private sector jobs.

        c) Increased private sector role in the aviation industry.

        d) Private firms are more involved in providing airport services. These firms comprise
           7.3% of all CAI staff within the airport area. In 2009, airlines staff increased by
           7.8%; the number of retail companies was up by 6% to reach 36 companies; 14 cargo
           companies increased staff by 64%; while Egypt Air staff increased by 6.8%.

        e) Support to gradual liberalization of the sector and promote operational efficiency and
           cost-effective delivery of airport services. MCA's commitment to liberalize the sector
           began to materialize immediately in December 2004 when it signed contracts with
           international operators to assist in managing CAI and five regional airports in Egypt,
           including SSH. The liberalization of air transport study implications are detailed in
           "Project Components" section in Annex 2.

Project Cost

Following the signing of the Additional Loan Agreement (EGY-7415) on June 27, 2008, and its
effectiveness on March 8, 2009, the Government of Egypt received a total of US$375 million of
IBRD financing for: (i) the construction of the third Terminal at Cairo International Airport with
investments of US$328.30 million; (ii) the new terminal at Sharm El Sheikh Airport, with
investments of US$42.70 million; and (iii) consultancy services for both airports at about
US$4.00 million. It is worth noting that, until June 2006, this project was the largest WB Loan to
Egypt in 30 years.

Following is a brief of the project expenditures financed by the Bank (table 10):

                      Table 10: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$)
                                            Original Loan                       Revised
                                              Agreement
Component A: Construction of TB3            262,700,000.00                   288,366,617.89
Component B: Construction of SSH              39,300,000.00                   42,670,430.00
Component C: Goods                             3,500,000.00                     2,265,848.04
Component C: Consultants Services              3,600,000.00                     1,697,104.07
Un-allocated Funds                            25,900,000.00
Additional Loan for Component A                                               40,000,000.00
Total                                       335,000,000.00                   375,000,000.00

Civil Aviation Investment Plan (2007-2012)

The Civil Aviation Ministry has proceeded with its mission to expand and improve Egypt's
airports and the national carrier, Egypt Air, at a time when many other countries and carriers have
temporarily reduced, and in some cases suspended, activities as a consequence of the worldwide
economic downturn. This shows the importance of fully utilizing the findings of the studies to
anticipate future problems and bottlenecks and securing the funding for projects aimed at
equipping the borrower with efficient means to eliminate them. The following table displays

                                                38
EHCAAN and affiliates projects in the 2007-2012. The investment plan over 2002­2012 is
estimated at EGP 15,500 million broken down as shown in table 11:
                         Table 11: Breakdown of investment Plan

Airport Project Name               Cost (million EGP)       Total Cost
Cairo International Airport
Cairo Cargo City                   384
TB2 Rehabilitation                 2000
Automated People Movers            568
TB1 Façade Cladding                42
Construction of New Power          250
Station and Renovation of TB2
Current Station
Airport New Road                   100
Long-term Parking Multi-           226                      3570
storey Garage (capacity 3000
cars)
Sharm El-Sheikh International
Airport (SSH)
Extending and maintaining the      120
current Runway
Construction of New Terminal       2300                     2420
Building and New Runway
Hurghada International
Airport
Rehabilitation of Current          152
Terminal (phase II)
Construction of New Terminal       2000
Building and New Runway
Additional Infrastructure          100                      2252
works and Service Buildings        100                      100
Nozha Airport Extending and
maintaining Current Runway
Burg El-Arab New Terminal          547                      547
Building, Taxi ways, Cargo
Facility, and Infrastructure
Works
Abu Simbel Rehabilitation of
Current Terminal
Airport Building, Tarmacs, Taxi    85                       85
ways
Assiut Airport Construction of     100                      100
New Terminal Building
Taba Airport Rehabilitation and
expanding current
Terminal from 2700 m2 to 6100 m2
NANSC New Control Tower in         66                        66
Hurghada                           100
  New Control Tower in CAI         196
  Rehabilitate ILS-VOR/DME         114
  Navigation aids
  Rehabilitate VHF radio           58
  equipment
  Development of Air Control,      150                      618
  Simulation, Back-up Systems in
  Cairo Navigation Center
ITS                                181                      181
  ITS Development at EAC
  International Airports                     39
Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Part I - Major delays in Project Schedule and Justifications

COMPONENT 1: TB3 Construction Contract

1. Main contract of TB3 (TAV)

· Delay during prequalification phase:            N/A
· Delay during Tendering phase:                   N/A
· Delay during contract implementation phase
as follow:
Main duration of contract implementation          900 days
phase:
Extension of time:                                679 days
Final and revised contract implementation         1579 days
duration:
Clarifications are provided in table 12 below:

             Table 12: Clarifications and justifications regarding major delays
                               Explanation                                  Delay (days)
        Application of new seismic code caused redesigning more than 120        75
        shop drawing, in addition to electrical and mechanical boards.
        Design changes to comply with ICAO and A380 requirements.
        Changes required by CAC Private Operator.

        The extended period required to award the ITS Contract. Although        102
        not a major delay, there were interface issues which do affect
        contract coordination.
        Upgrading of Passenger Boarding Bridges to incorporate glazing.
        Expansion/redesign of toll station on all airport approach roads.

        Five New Toll station and related facilities design and shop-           184
        drawings approval.
        Implementation of changes arising out of Fire Strategy.
        Changes to Steel and Aluminum Rolling Shutter Doors.

        Generator fuel tanks supply and installation.                           92
        Skyway connection and interface with TB2.
        Master Key system.
        Fuel hydrant System based on revised hydrostatic testing and fuel
        flushing.

        Egypt Air Storm water Drainage Pond.                                    125
        New Toll Station Site 5.Core and Shell Areas.
        Concessionaire's Technical Requirements.
        Outdoor WLAN Access Point.

        Egypt Air Storm water Drainage Pond.                                    103
        BAS connections to Oil Separators.



                                                 40
2. Information Technology Systems contract of TB3 (ARINC)

Table 13: Clarifications and justifications regarding major delays

                              Explanation                                       Contract
                                                                             Duration/Delays
                                                                                 (days)
        During prequalification phase: SITA's complain was impacted on             109
       the time schedule of tendering phase by shifting the time.
       Main duration of contract implementation phase.                             547
       Main Contractor's revised program of Works BAS5. In respect of a            196
       delay to Biometric Immigration Gate.
       Main Contractor's revised program of Works BAS6, and the main               170
       contractor's subsequent failure to work in accordance with the
       program.
       Main Contractor's revised program of Works BAS7. Delay in                   127
       respect of intermittent power supplies to equipment rooms and a
       lack of continuous air-conditioning supply.

COMPONENT 2: SSH Construction Contract (Saudi Bin Laden Group)

The contractual duration of the contract was 550 days at signature. During implementation,
extensions of time detailed in table 14 below have lengthened the contract by 281 days.

            Table 14: Clarifications and justifications regarding major delays
                              Explanation                                  Delay (days)
       Security suspensions (VIP stoppages) and ADP changes                    178

       Security suspensions(VIP stoppages)                                             22

       Delays in the customs clearance process between June and Mid-                   92
       September 2006.
       Continuing Security reason beyond the control of the contractor
       New requirement by the airports operator to amend layout and fit
       out details at several locations.
       The impact of the Bairam and Christmas holidays

Part II: Modifications and changes of Components 3

The following changes were made to the schedule of component 3 activities (table 15)

                                Table 15: Changes in contracts
Tender description            Revised Action              Revised Description
PMU Support                   Cancelled
Auditor (phase I& II)         Transfer & amended
Environmental Equipment       Transfer to consultant      Noise measurement for CAI &
                              services                    SSH
Environment                   Divided into:                 Environmental Consultant
                              * Consultancy Services        Environmental Training and
                              * Training                    Advanced Environmental
                                                            Training


                                              41
Private Sector Delivery Jobs at CAI

Volume of private sector permanent jobs in Egypt Air is compared with that of other Private
Firms working in CAI. Airport services included in the survey covered all activities of the airport
such as airline companies, retail, cargo, or tourism. The following table compares actual volumes
of permanent jobs in Egypt Air and other firms with that of planned figures in the PAD.

              Table 16: Private Sector Delivery Jobs in CAI compared with PAD
                  2003      2004      2005       2006     2007     2008                 2009
Egypt Air
 · PAD      12,700 12,700            12,700      12,700    12,700     12,700        12,700
 · Actual   17,307 16,989            16,884      13,911    13,473     See below     See below
Other Firms
   · PAD     6,275  6,275             6,275       6,275      6,275    6,275
   · Actual  2,641  2,786             3,638       6,551      7,925    See below See below

Further analysis shows that by including temporary staff working in the airport area, in different
airport related activities, the total number of staff in CAI reaches 45,138.

The following table provides detailed data on the total of staff (permanent and temporary)
working in the airport area, divided by activity showing private, government, and Egypt Air Staff
Distribution:
                 Table 17: Employment Analysis/Private/Egypt Air/Activity
                                        2007               2008                 2009
Airlines                               14,878             16,346               17,622
less Egypt Air Express                    0                 33                   201
less Egypt Air Holding Company          2,744             3,895                 4,903
less Egypt Air Airlines                 6,709             6,244                 6,468
less Egypt Air Maintenance              3,922             3,785                 3,969
Airlines -Private                       1,503             2,389                 2,081
Airport                                12,637             13,264               16,019
less Egypt Air Ground Services          3,899             4,418                 4,673
Airport                                 8,738             8,846                11,346
Retail                                  5,064             5,181                 5,500
less Egypt Air Tourism and Tax          1,429             1,475                1,636
Free
less Egypt Air In-flight Services       2,089              2,103                2,156
Retail -Private                         1,546              1,603                1,708
Tourism                                  574                566                  310
Cargo                                   1,559              1,637                2,699
less Egypt Air Cargo                    1,054              1,090                1,205
Cargo ­Private                           505                547                 1,494
Government                               648                671                  848
Other                                   1,945              2,020                2,140
less Egypt Air Hospital                 1,085              1,112                1,151
less Egypt Air Supplementary             657                702                  763
Industries
Other -Private                          203                206                  226
TOTAL PRIVATE                          12,495             13,591               16,855
GRAND TOTAL                            37,305             39,685               45,138




                                                42
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     43
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


·   Project Appraisal Document

·   Aide Memoires

·   Monthly, quarterly, and annual progress reports

·   Mid-Term report

·   EHCAAN, CAC and EAC financial statements

·   Borrower's Implementation Completion Report




                                          44
MAP




45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 37418


                                                                                                             ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                                                                        AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                           TERMINAL FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                           MAIN AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                           SECONDARY AIRPORTS
                ARAB REPUBLIC
                    OF EGYPT                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                           GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                           MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                        25°E                                                                 30°E
                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST BANK
                                                               Mediterranean Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                    AND GAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                    To
         To                                                                                                                                                                              0                     50         100   150    200 Kilometers
       Darnah                                                                                                                                                                     Tel Aviv

                               Salûm          Marsa
                                              Matruh                                                                            Damietta                             El                         0                     50         100         150 Miles
                                                                                                           Kafr El
                                                                                Alexandria                 Sheikh                      Port Said                     Arish

                                              Khalda                                    Damanhur
                                                                                                                          El Mansura
                                                                                                                                                                    El Gora
                                                                                                                                                                                      ISRAEL
                                              Meleiha
                                                                                             Shibin El Kom
                                                                                                                  Tanta
                                                                                                                           Zagizig                                                                                          JORDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                       Ismailia                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                         Benha
                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                        Badr El Din                                        Giza                             Suez
                                                                      Abu El                                           CAIRO                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                      Ghradieq
                                       Qâra                                                                                                                                           Taba
                          Sîwa                                                                  El Fayoum




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Aqaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                            35°E


                                                                                                                                             Gu
                                                                                                                     Beni Suef                             Abu

                                                                                                                                              lf o
                                                                                                                                                           Rudeis




                                                                                                                                                                                            Gulf of
                                                                                                                                                   fS
                                                                                                                                                   uez
                                                                                                                                         Râs Ghârib
                                                                                                                                                                              St. Catherine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAUDI
                                                                                                                                                                     El Tor
                                                                                                Al Minya
                                                                                                                                          Ras Shu Keir                                                                            ARABIA
                                                                                                                                                        Zeit Bay                    Sharm El

       LIBYA                                                                                                 Ni
                                                                                                               le
                                                                                                                                                                                    Sheikh

                                                                                                                      Assiut                                             Al Ghurdaqah
                                                                                                                           Ri




                                                                                                                                                                              Bîr Seiyâla
                                                                                                                            ve
                                                                                                                               r




                                                                                                                      Sohag
                                                                                                                                                  Qena                               Quseir
                                                                                                                                                                                        .


                                                                                                                                              Luxor
                                                                      Mût
                                                                        .                    El Kharga

25°N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Marsa 'Alam                                25°N




                                                                                                                                                         Kom Ombo


                                                                                                                                          Aswan                                                                                        Red

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea

                                                                                                                                                         Lake
                                                                                                                                                         Nasser


                                                                            Shark El
                                                                            Oweinat
                                                                                                                  Abu Simbel                                                                                                                 Halaib




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                      To                                        To                                                                                       Port Sudan
                                                  SUDAN                                             Dongola                                   Berber

20°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20°N




                 25°E                                                                    30°E                                                                                                                      35°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DECEMBER 2009
47
