Report No. PID9793
Project Name                     Venezuela-Caracas Metropolitan Health...
Services Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
Project ID                       VEPE50495
Borrower                         Government of Venezuela
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Social
Development (MSDS)
Address
Proyecto Salud, Ministerio de Salud y
Desarrollo Social (MSDS)
Centro Sim6n Bolivar, Edificio Sur Piso 8,
Caracas, Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela
Contact Person: Dr. Waldo Revello, Project
Coordinating Unit UCP
Tel: 582-481-1969
Fax: 582-483-4209
Email: pscoordinaciongral@Msds.Gov.Ve
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                July 3, 2001
Project Appraisal Date           April 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Indicators of the health status of Venezuelans suggest that it lags behind
that of the populations of countries with similar per capita income. This
situation is due in part to Venezuela's relatively low level of expenditures
on health, to unusually high fluctuations in public expenditures on health,
and to numerous inefficiencies and inequities in the health system.
Venezuela's health system suffers from significant gaps in the area of public
health interventions, has an unusual level of fragmentation and duplication
of medical care services, suffers from an incomplete and imperfect
decentralization, is often poorly managed, and makes insufficient efforts to
reach the poor.
The main sector issues are: a) Lagging health status indicators; b) the
need for a new health law to implement the framework set forth in Venezuela's
Constitution to begin to unify the public health system and, to consolidate
decentralization and public participation;    c) low and fluctuating public
expenditures on health; d) weaknesses in public health measures; e)
duplication of clinical care services; f) poor management of health care
facilities;   and g) inequity in health care.
2. Project Objectives
The development objectives of the proposed project are:
- To expand the access to and improve the quality and efficiency of



ambulatory care services, pre-medical emergency medical services
(ambulance system, communication system, and para-medic teams), and
outpatient services of hospitals, for 2.4 million vulnerable persons
living in selected municipalities and parishes of the Metropolitan
District of Caracas (MDC);
- To improve the management of the health care system and support the
decentralization process in the health system of the MDC; and,
- The development of HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies and
activities in the MDC.
The proposed project is expected to contribute in the medium-term to the
improvement of the health status of the most vulnerable population in the
MDC.
The proposed project would build upon and complement two World-Bank (WB)
financed projects: the ongoing Health Services Reform Project (3823-VE) and
the recently completed Endemic Diseases Control Project (3538-VE).
3. Project Description
Component #1: Strengthening Health Care Networks--US$ 44.07 million.
Under this component, the project would support: (i) the delivery of a
comprehensive health care program targeted at the vulnerable population of
the MDC by supporting the development of a new health care model, emphasizing
the organization in networks of existing ambulatory centers, pre-hospital
emergency medical care services (ambulance system, communication system, and
para-medic teams), and outpatient departments of hospitals, in each of the
selected districts and municipalities of MDC; and (ii) the improvement of the
diagnostic, treatment, and medical waste management capacity of network
facilities to provide appropriate and timely quality health care on an
ambulatory and inpatient basis.
The project will finance subprojects for the rehabilitation and/or
construction of physical infrastructure, equipment, communication systems and
ambulances for patient referral and emergency care, training of health
personnel, education and communication activities, and technical assistance
for the improvement of supply systems, and development of maintenance systems
for physical infrastructure and equipment.
Component #2: Institutional Development--US$ 6.84 million.
To ensure the virtual integration of health facilities into networks and
efficient and effective delivery of the comprehensive health care program,
the project would support under this component the institutional
modernization of health networks.
The project would finance under institutional development subprojects
technical assistance, training and systems development to modernize health
care organization and management structures and practices, including
management information, health care financing and quality assurance systems,
and human resources development.
Component #3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control in the MDC--US$ 2.74 million.
The project would finance technical assistance, equipment, training and
workshops to support the formulation and implementation of prevention and
control strategies and activities for HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted
Infections (STIs) including information, education, and communication
campaigns to raise awareness and change behavior to reduce HIV/AIDS and STIs
transmission, particularly among high-risk groups; development of a second
generation HIV surveillance system in the MSDS; development of an information
-2 -



system for the control and follow up of HIV/AIDS patients; development of
action plans; training of health personnel; and equipping of two HIV/AIDS
diagnostic centers.
Component #4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models
in the MDC US$0.800.
The project would finance technical assistance and activities to support
health sector reform efforts at the MDC. Assistance would cover issues that
might affect the health services network modernization objectives in the MDC,
and those that could facilitate the definition of new institutional roles at
the different levels of the health system in accordance with the policy
guidelines set by the MSDS.
Component #5: Project Administration and Evaluation--US$ 5.54 million
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision and
impact evaluation at the different levels of the system.
4. Financing
The total cost of the proposed project is US$60.3 million
5. Project Implementation
The project would benefit from structures and procedures established in the
MSDS for executing the WB-financed Endemic Disease Control Project (Ln.3538-
VE) and Health Services Reform Project (Ln. 3823-VE). Project implementation
will be under the responsibility of the MSDS'Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
which was established in January 1993 for managing the implementation of all
projects financed by international agencies, including the WB and the
International Development Bank (IDB).
Each health directorate at the MDC would appoint a project team with a
coordinator and other staff required to coordinate with the PCU the
implementation of project activities in their respective localities. The
project team would be responsible for: (i) preparing annual implementation
plans, including proposals for requesting state and municipal funds; (ii)
monitoring implementation of all local-level activities included in the
annual plans; and (iii) reporting semi-annually to the PCU.
6. Project Sustainability
The project would be sustainable because it enjoys support at the highest
political levels; major sectoral stakeholders have been involved in project
preparation and would participate in project implementation assuring country
ownership; the fiscal impact of the investments is expected to be modest; and
project implementation would be managed by a strong technical group at the
PCU, with vast experience in managing projects financed by the WB and the
IDB, with support from MDC teams. In addition, strong commitment of
Government for counterpart financing has been obtained.
Project sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government to cover the
operating costs of project investments. The following project elements will
ensure the long-term sustainability of the project: (i) ambulatory services,
including outpatient services in referral hospitals, will be favored over
inpatient services, further decreasing the incremental recurrent costs; (ii)
it will refrain from creating new staff positions; and (iii) pharmaceuticals,
medical supplies and the salaries of PCU staff and the operating expenditures
of the PCU will be financed 100% by the Government.
- 3 -



7. Lessons from Past Operations
The design and content of the proposed Caracas Metropolitan Health Services
Project builds on the experience with the two WB-financed projects: the
ongoing Health Services Reform Project and the recently completed Endemic
Diseases Control Project. The Health Services Reform Project supported a
comprehensive health care strategy developed in Aragua State and other
experiences in the Zulia, Falcon, and Trujillo States. The lessons from
these projects are: successful implementation is closely associated with:
(i) linking the definition of project objectives and scope to a clear policy
framework; (ii) obtaining strong and sustained government commitment; (iii)
designing simple projects with focused and modest objectives; (iv) linking
financing of critical investments to the implementation of policy and/or
institutional reform; (v) community participation ensures ownership of
project activities; (vi) periodic evaluation of the project is essential to
allow adjustments to be made to the project design and its implementation
arrangements; and (vii) conducting intensive technical supervision by the WB.
8. Government Commitment
- A letter from the MSDS to Country Unit Management of the WB dated April
30, 1999, requesting a mission for the identification of the proposed
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project; and
- agreements reached by officials from the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Ministry of Planning, and the MSDS on project's objectives and
scope, as detailed in preparation mission's Aide Memoire documentation.
Ministry of Planning has included the proposed project in the Ley
Paraguas for 2000-2001 that authorizes the contracting of loans from
international organizations.
9. Environmental Aspects
Category B. See Annex on environmental aspects.
10. Program Objective Category
The category for this project is Poverty Reduction and Human Resource.
11. Contact Point
Task Manager:     Patricio Marquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-0163
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



Annex
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Management of Medical Waste Produced in Health Facilities in the Caracas Metropolitan
Area
The medical waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous,
infectious, contagious, or toxic. This annex assesses medical waste handling
and disposal procedures, and proposes a number of measures to improve the
management of medical waste produced in health facilities in the MDC.
A. Risks of Inadequate Management of Potentially Hazardous Waste Produced by
Health Facilities
About 10-20% of the waste produced in health facilities is potentially
hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic, posing health risks to staff who
handle waste in health facilities and to urban waste collection operators and
scavengers in landfills. Such waste also causes environmental pollution and
a high risk to national public health. Among the infectious diseases that may
be spread by medical waste are hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, cholera,
cellulites, staphylococcemia, meningitis, amoebiasis, and others. Other
diseases may be caused by radiation and toxicity due to metals such as
mercury, lead and cadmium.
In light of the above, it is important to know the amount of total waste, in
particular potentially hazardous waste, produced in health facilities. In
Central America, for example, 14 million kg of waste are produced each year
in the region's hospitals. In Honduras, each hospital bed generates 4.21 kg
of waste each day, of which 1.43 kg are hazardous.    In Central America, 40%
of this waste is hazardous, much higher than the rate in the United States
that is only 15%.   The "Waste Management Plan in Health Facilities of the
Caracas Metropolitan Area," prepared by the MSDS and Pan-American Health
Organization (PAHO)/WHO in 1997, estimates that for each hospital bed in the
area, 5.95 kg of waste are generated per day, 1.19 kg of which is potentially
hazardous.
Hospitalized patients also run the risk of contracting intra-hospital illness
due to poor sanitation practices in hospitals; between 10% and 15% of
patients contract other infections during their stays. However, hospital
staff is the ones at highest risk of infection by handling medical waste,
especially if done improperly. According to available data, in the United
States each year 64 health workers contract HIV and 12,000 contract different
types of hepatitis from contact with medical waste, especially contaminated
needles and surgical equipment. Of these, 250 die.
A report by the Sao Paulo Association of Studies on the Control of Intra-
Hospital Infections in Brazil indicates the alarming figure of 70,000 cases
of work-related accidents per year in that country, due to improper handling
of hazardous hospital waste.   Other data show that 18% of hospital workers
become ill from sharp/pointed objects, 18% contract illnesses from handling
trash containers, and 14% from needle pricks.   Of these, 27% are nursing
staff and 209 are janitorial staff.   A study carried out in Mexico estimated
the risk of injuries caused by hazardous waste among different occupational
categories: janitorial staff 35%, nursing staff 27%, medical students 20%,
medical residents 7%, surgeons 4%, laboratory technicians 3%,
anesthesiologists 2%, and gardeners 2%.
B. Regulations Governing the Management of Medical Waste in Venezuela
The following legal framework regulates the management of medical waste in
the health facilities of the MDC.
- 5-



The Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Art. 83: ... "All persons have the right to health protection, as well as the
duty to participate actively in health promotion and defense, and to comply
with health and sanitation measures stipulated by law, in accordance with
international treaties and agreements signed and ratified by the Republic".
Art 84:... "The public health system shall give priority to health promotion
and disease prevention..."
Organic Law of the National Health System
Art. 22: "The Environmental Sanitation Subsystem shall consist of a set of
functions and activities aimed at improving the human environment by means of
eliminating or controlling disease-causing agents in order to make it
healthier and more pleasant and adequate so that it does not affect health,
in coordination with the Ministry of Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources and other public or private entities dealing with the environment,
safeguarding stipulations of the Organic Law of Prevention, Conditions and
Work Environment."
Presidential Decree 2.218 published in official Gazette 4418 dated April 27,
1994: "Regulations for Waste Classification and Management in Health
Facilities".
Art. 1: "The objective of the present Decree is to establish the conditions
under which waste generated in facilities related to the human or animal
health sector should be managed, for the purpose of preventing microbial
contamination and infection in users, workers and the public, as well as
environmental contamination".
Art 5: "Waste generated in health facilities, for purposes of the present
decree, is classified as":
Common Waste (Type A): Common waste is considered to be that whose
basic components are: paper, cardboard, plastic, food residue, glass,
trash components generated in administrative areas, general cleaning,
food preparation, warehouses and workshops, provided they have not been
in contact with waste classified as B, C, D and E.
Potentially hazardous waste (Type B): Potentially hazardous waste is
considered to be those materials, which although not hazardous by
nature, due to their location, contact or any other circumstance may be
contaminated, including waste from inpatient and outpatient care.
Infectious waste (Type C): This is all waste which, by nature,
location, exposure, contact or any other circumstance, may potentially
contain infectious agents, from water, areas of seclusion and/or
treatment of infected-contagious patients, from biological activities,
from operating rooms, delivery rooms, obstetric wards or the rooms of
corresponding patients, emergency care departments, hemodialysis
services, blood banks, laboratories, research institutes, morgues,
pathology departments, autopsy rooms, and any area that may generate
infectious waste.
Organic and/or biological waste (Type D): This includes all parts or
portions extracted and/or originating from human beings and animals,
living and/or dead, as well as the containers that hold them.
Special waste (Type E): These are pharmaceutical or chemical products
and residues, radioactive materials, flammable liquids, as well as any
others catalogued as hazardous but not included in the previous groups.
Such waste will be managed separately and be regulated by provisions in
the Regulations for the Control of Hazardous Waste Generation and
Management.
Art. 33: "All public or private health establishments whose size and type so
require, in the judgment of the relevant health authority, should have an
- 6 -



Office of Sanitation and Maintenance, under the responsibility of a
specialized professional with the necessary authority to fully comply with
these Regulations."
Art. 34: "The Office of Sanitation and Maintenance should implement
directed, controlled training programs for waste management, including:
a) In-service training for all staff in health establishment, so that they
may acquire information and criteria to ensure the safe, rational
management of waste;
b) sanitation, maintenance, cleaning and disinfection programs to ensure
asepsis conditions in equipment, installations, auxiliary elements and
places used in waste management; and
c) programs for operation and maintenance of installations and equipment such
as incinerators, refrigeration systems, sterilizers, steam systems,
boilers, auxiliary electrical plants, and others."
Other Legal Provisions That Regulate Solid Waste
Other legal provisions that regulate the management of solid waste produced
in health institutions include the following:
- Penal Law on the Environment;
- Organic Law of Decentralization, delimitation and transfer of
duties of public authority;
- Partial reform of the Organic Law of the Municipal Regime;
- Decree 638: Regulations on water quality and air pollution
control;
- Regulations for the establishment of requirements for
infrastructure and medical equipment;
- Regulations for hospitals, health posts, sanatoriums,
infirmaries, and similar places; and
- Venezuelan regulation COVENIN 2339: clinics, polyclinics,
institutes or private hospitals classification.
C. The Current Management of Medical Waste in Health Facilities in the
Metropolitan District of Caracas
In the MDC, no reliable technical procedures are currently used in the
management of medical waste in health facilities for the following reasons:
- Regulations governing waste handling are unknown by medical,
nursing, and maintenance staff and by other staff who handle waste;
- health institutions' infrastructure is inadequate with regard to
internal means of transferring waste such as: elevators, freight
elevators, and specific elevators for potentially hazardous waste.
Likewise, there is a lack of appropriate internal transfer vehicles, and
waste is transferred in plastic bags to open-air containers without any
protection;
- there is a lack of proper, isolated, and protected places for
disposal of potentially hazardous waste until collected by urban waste
collection operators;
- most incineration units are obsolete or not working;
- there is a lack of classification and separation of different
types of waste, which leads to their being mixed with waste that may be
considered potentially hazardous;
- there is a lack of training of staff in places where waste is
produced and of staff who handle it internally, until its final disposal
within the health facility, prior to collection by the city waste
collection operator; and
- waste is improperly handled by urban waste collection operators,
with final disposal in the open or in common dumps where potentially
hazardous or toxic waste is mixed with common waste, causing risks to
-7 -



trash scavengers, public health in general and the environment.
The current situation in the hospitals of the MDC is documented in the
"Diagnosis of Waste Management in Public Hospitals of the Capital Region,"
prepared by the Sanitation Engineering Service of the X Environmental
Sanitation Region of the MSDS. This study evaluated 23 public sector
hospitals and showed the following:
- Classification and separation of waste--not done in any center;
- primary storage of waste--9t done well, 659 fairly, and 26t
poorly;
- internal transportation of waste--96t done fairly, and 4; done
well; and
- final storage--4t done well, 61- fairly, and 35t poorly.
D. Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusions
- Improper waste management leads to the production of work-related
illnesses among health workers, urban waste collection operators and
scavengers in landfills. It also causes environmental pollution and risks
to public health in general;
- lack of knowledge about the legal regulation that governs the
management and final disposal of medical waste;
- equipment are insufficient and obsolete and the infrastructure is
lacking for proper internal management of medical waste;
- there is improper management by operators of urban waste
collection;
- the final disposal of potentially hazardous waste is highly risky
to public health; and
- a National Plan for the Comprehensive Management of the Handling
of Medical Waste generated in health facilities is lacking.
Recommendations
The proposed project would support:    (i) an assessment of medical care waste
handling and disposal in ambulatory facilities of MDC; (ii) the revision and
updating of the existing manuals for the handling and disposal of medical
waste in health facilities; and (iii) the training of health personnel
associated with programs and activities under the project in the application
of these manuals to protect high-risk human groups such as patients as well
as health staff in the participating facilities.
- 8 -



