Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22185-VE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.3 MILLION
TO THE
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A
CARACAS METROPOLITAN HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
May 31, 2001
Colombia, Mexico and Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 200 1)
Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivares (VEB)
US$1 = 716 VEB
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DALE         Disability-Adjusted Life Expectancy
FD           Federal District
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ICB          International Competitive Bidding Procedures
IDB/IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication
IMCI         Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IVSS         Venezuelan Institute of Social Security (Instituto Venezolano de Seguridad Social)
MDC          Metropolitan District of Caracas
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MSDS         Venezuelan Ministry of Health and Social Development (Ministerio de Saludy
Desarrollo Social)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding Procedures
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO         Pan-American Health Organization
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
PMR          Project Management Reports
QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA           Special Account
RPA          Regional Procurement Advisor
SBD          Standard Bidding Documents
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
STI          Sexually Transmitted Infections
UNAIDS       United Nations AIDS Program
WB           World Bank
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President                    David de Ferranti
Country Director                  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director                  Xavier Coll
Sector Manager                    Charles Griffin
Sector Leader                     Eduardo Velez
Team Leader                       Patricio Marquez



Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................................2
1.  Project development objective   ........................................................................                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators.                                                                                                                                     2
B. Strategic Context ........................................................................                                                                      2
1 .  Sector-related  Country  Assistance  Strategy  (CAS) goal supported  by the  project .........                                                 ..........     2
2.  Sector progress, issues, and  Government strategy  .....................................................................                                       3
3. Strategic sector issues addressed by the project ..................................................................    6
C. Project Description Summary .                                   ........................................................................                        8
1.  Project components ........................................................................                                                                    8
2.  Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project .                                          .................................................  10
3. Benefits and target population .                                  ........................................................................    0
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements  ........................................................................                                     11
D.  Project Rationale  ........................................................................                                                                   16
1 . Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection  ..................................                                  .........................   l 6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........                                                          ...........   17
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  proposed  project design  ..............................                                  ............................   17
4.  Indications of Borrower commitment and  ownership  .................................................. ..............                                          18
5.  Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project ........................................................................                                      18
E.  Summary  Project Analysis  ........................................................................                                                           18
1 . Economic  ........................................................................                                                                            18
2.  Financial ........................................................................                                                                            19
3.  Technical ........................................................................                                                                            19
4.  Institutional ........................................................................                                                                       20
5. Social ........................................................................                                                                               20
6.  Environmental assessment ........................................................................                                                            20
7. Participatory approach .........................................................................   1
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks  ........................................................................                                                         21
1.  Sustainability  ........................................................................                                                                     21
2.  Critical risks ........................................................................                                                                      22
3.  Possible  controversial aspects ........................................................................                                                     22
G.  Main  Loan  Conditions ..................................................................... ..                                                              22
1. Effectiveness conditions .........................                                                                                                             22
2. Other .........................                                                                                                                                23
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................  23
I.  Compliance  with  Bank  Policies .......................................................................    23



Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ..............    .................................... .............. 24
Annex 2-A: Detailed Project Description .................................................................  33
Annex 2-B: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Activities .......................................................... 39
Annex 2-C: Legal Framework ................................................................. 41
Annex 2-D: Management of Medical Waste Produced in Health Facilities in the Caracas
Metropolitan Area ................................................................. 50
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .54
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .55
Annex 5: Financial Summary .61
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .62
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .75
Map IBRD 31496 .......... 77



Venezuela
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Country Management Unit (LCC 1C)
Human Development Sector Management Unit (LCSHD)
Date: May 31, 2001                             Team Leader: Patricio Marquez
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade           Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID:  2:       pPo s  l 4q              Sector: Health, Nutrition, Pop
Lending Instrument: SIL                        Program of Targeted Intervention:    [X] Yes  [ ] |No
Project Financing Data            [X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [  Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank Financing: US$30.3 million
Proposed terms:             US$ Fixed spread loan, with
bullet repayment
Grace period:               10 years
Commitment fee:             1%                           Service charge: 0.85%, first 4 years, 0.75%
thereafter.
Financing plan (US$m): Source                             Local            Foreign         Total
Borrower                                                  30.0                              30.0
IBRD                                                                         30.3           30.3
Other (specify)
Total                                                                                       60.3
Borrower: Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health and Social Development (MSDS)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2002      2003     2004      2005    2006
Annual   2.67      10.94    9.038     5.17     2.49
Cumulative    2.67     13.61    22.64    27.81    30.30
Project implementation period: 2001 - 2006 Expected effectiveness date: Oct./Nov. 2001.Expected closing date: Dec. 31, 2006



2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Obiective (See Annex 1)
The development objectives of the proposed project are:
*  Expand the access to and improve the quality and efficiency of ambulatory care services, pre-medical
emergency medical services (ambulance system, communication system, and para-medic teams), and
outpatient services of hospitals, for 2.4 million vulnerable persons living in selected municipalities and
parishes of the Metropolitan District of Caracas (MDC);
*  Improve the management of the health care system and support the decentralization process in the health
system of the MDC; and,
*  Development of HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies and activities in the MDC.
The proposed project is expected to contribute in the medium-term to the improvement of the health status of
the most vulnerable population in the MDC.
The proposed project would build upon and complement two World-Bank (WB) financed projects: the
ongoing Health Services Reform Project (3823-VE) and the recently completed Endemic Diseases Control
Project (3538-VE).
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators for Component #1: Strengthening Health Care Networks, and Component #2:
Institutional Development, would be the measurable indicators in five categories: coverage, quality, efficiency
in the provision of health care services, management, and civil society participation. Baseline data on selected
indicators have been collected in each participating municipality, and the indicators will be incorporated in the
participation agreements between the Ministry of Health and Social Development (Ministerio de Salud y
Desarrollo Social, or MSDS), the MDC, the State of Miranda, and all participating Municipalities. For
Component #3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control, and
Component #4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models, the indicators would be
related to the preparation and implementation of strategies, activities, instruments and models for the MDC's
health system as a whole. The indicators are shown in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: Report No. 16471-VE       Date of latest CAS discussion: April 1997
The proposed Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project is consistent with the CAS, which states that WB
assistance is to be provided to Venezuela for improving access to and quality of health care services for the
poor. The CAS for Venezuela focused on improving the performance and quality of the WB's project
portfolio and identified three goals:
*  Enhancing sustainable growth with stability;
* promoting social development; and
* modernizing the public sector.



3
The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project would support all three of these goals, to varying degrees.
It would promote economic growth and social development in the long term by improving health status of the
poor via the provision of more accessible, equitable, and good quality health services. Furthermore, it would
contribute to the modernization of the public sector by supporting the decentralization process in the MDC's
health system, and the enhancement of the institutional capacity for efficiently managing health services
within a decentralized arrangement.
A poverty report on Venezuela issued by the WB in March 2001, Investing in Human Capitalfor Growth,
Prosperity, and Poverty Reduction, called for several measures to address two problems: (i) great inequity in
access to health services and the distribution of resources, and (ii) inefficiency and a lack of coordination
among institutions providing health services. The measures called for were the following:
*  Improved equity in access to health services-for example, targeting health programs to poor people
with the greatest unmet needs;
*  improving efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of health services-i.e., enhancing the
efficiency and effectiveness of health service delivery (e.g., by developing institutional capacity at the
central and State levels, particularly in policy-making, strategic planning, resource allocation, and
monitoring and evaluation of resource use and results); and
*  improving health services financing-i.e., improving allocation and efficiency of health services
financing (e.g., by assigning priority to high-impact programs such as maternal and child health and
control of endemic diseases, and emphasizing cost-effective interventions).
The proposed project would address the unsatisfied health care needs of the poor in the marginal urban areas
of Caracas by supporting the development of new organizational, managerial, and financial arrangements that
lead to the more rational and efficient use of public resources. Promoting decentralization and integration of
public services is also part of the strategy supported by the project.
2. Sector progress, issues, and Government strategy
Overview of Health Sector Issues. Indicators of the health status of Venezuelans suggest that it lags behind
that of the populations of countries with similar per capita income. This situation is due in part to Venezuela's
relatively low level of expenditures on health, to unusually high fluctuations in public expenditures on health,
and to numerous inefficiencies and inequities in the health system. As discussed below, Venezuela's health
system suffers from significant gaps in the area of public health interventions, has an unusual level of
fragmentation and duplication of medical care services, suffers from an incomplete and imperfect
decentralization, is often poorly managed, and makes insufficient efforts to reach the poor.
Lagging Health Status Indicators. Venezuela's health indicators, notwithstanding progress made in the past
20 years, remain low for a country at its per capita income level. Although the infant mortality rate of
Venezuela fell from 36 per 1,000 in 1980 to 21 in 1998, it is still double the infant mortality rates of Costa
Rica and Jamaica-countries with per capita incomes of only about half the per capita income of Venezuela.
Most of the causes of child mortality, such as prenatal complications, gastrointestinal infections, and
malnutrition are preventable. Venezuela's maternal mortality rate also remains at a relatively high 65 per
100,000 live births in 1998-well above the maternal mortality rate in countries such as Chile, Mexico, and
Argentina.
Significant variations in health status are found from one geographic region to the next and among different
socio-economic groups. The country's disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE)-a new measure proposed
by the World Health Organization (WHO) to judge how well the objective of good health is achieved-is
estimated to be 65 years, putting Venezuela 54h" among 191 countries using the measure. In Latin America



4
and the Caribbean, Venezuela's DALE of 65 places it below Colombia, Chile, Cuba, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, and Jamaica.
Like many other middle-income countries, Venezuela is undergoing an epidemiological transition. This is
particularly evident among the 4.5 million people of the MDC. While childhood diseases such as diarrhea,
respiratory diseases and malnutrition continue to be significant causes of illness and death, cardiovascular
diseases, cancer and injuries due to accidents and violence have become the leading causes of death among
adults. Vector-bome diseases, such as malaria, dengue, Chagas disease, and leishmaniasis still pose a public
health threat in the country, and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/ Acqu:-ed Immunodeficiency
Syndrome (AIDS) has experienced a jump in recent years, doubling the number of cases in the 1990s. The
adult HIV prevalence is about 1% in Venezuela, and the number of people currently infected is about 300,000.
Legal Framework for Decentralization and Public Participation. The Constitution of the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela was enacted in 1999 following its approval by national referendum (see Annex 2-C).
Although the new Constitution sets forth the requirements for a unified, publicly financed, democratic,
decentralized, and participatory health care system, the specifics of implementation are yet to be legislated. A
new health law to implement the framework set forth in Venezuela's Constitution is urgently needed to begin
to unify the public health system and, more relevant to this project, to consolidate decentralization and public
participation.  Pending the enactment of a new health law in accordance with the new Constitution,
Venezuela's health sector is operating under the Organic Law of Health of 1998. The 1998 law repealed
Health Sector Laws of 1934 and 1987, but it has not been fully implemented and has been challenged as
inconsistent with the new Constitution. A national commission has been set up to prepare a new draft health
law that would reaffirm decentralization and community participation as required by the Constitution.
The Special Law for the Regime of the MDC was enacted by the Constitutional Assembly in January 2000
(see Annex 2-C). This law created the MDC as a political and territorial unit with juridical personality and
autonomy comprising the city of Caracas but also including the Municipality of Libertador in the MDC, and
the Municipalities of Sucre, Baruta, Chacao, and El Hatillo of District 7 in the State of Miranda. The health-
related powers of the MDC vis-a-vis the powers of the Municipalities and the State of Miranda have not yet
been well defined. Clarification in this realm is needed.
In addition, the legal and institutional framework for the functional decentralization of public health services
to semi-autonomous or autonomous agencies and community participation needs to be developed for the
MDC and Municipalities within the MDC. Precedents for functional decentralization exist in the State of
Aragua and other States. The degree of autonomy can vary greatly among existing agencies/entities that can
be formed for the purpose of promoting decentralization to service providers and will be considered under the
project by the MDC, Municipalities and the State of Miranda.
Until all the respective powers of the MDC, the State of Miranda and the five Municipalities within MDC are
set forth in a new law, the parties are undergoing discussions for the formation of an association of the parties
through an administrative arrangement whereby the services would be integrated into health care networks.
For purposes of implementation of the project the MDC, the State of Miranda, the five municipalities within
MDC and the Ministry of Health and Social Development will sign an umbrella agreement setting forth their
commitment to participate in the proposed project as designed and in accordance with the operational manual
requirements. Such agreement would be signed as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project.
Low and Fluctuating Public Expenditures on Health. Venezuela's per capita public sector spending on
health was about US$1 11 in 1999-equivalent to about 2.5% of grow domestic product (GDP), as compared
to 9.3% in Colombia and 5.6% in Mexico. Venezuela's recent history suggests that fluctuations in the price of
oil are strongly transmitted into large fluctuations in public expenditures in health. Per capita expenditures
fell from US$178 in 1979 to US$46 in 1989 and then took a decade to surpass the level of US$100. During
the last three decades, any period of five years has seen fluctuations of 30% to 40% in public spending in
health.



5
Weaknesses in Public Health Measures. The responsibility for public health interventions has not been
sufficiently defined, and there are many gaps in the provision of public health. Although responsibility for
some of the provision of public health interventions (e.g., endemic disease control) has been decentralized to
States and Municipalities, the responsibility remains largely with the central the Ministry of Health and Social
Development (MSDS). The MSDS assigns only a small fraction of its budget to public interventions against
endemic diseases and environmental problems. The funds it allocates are provided mostly through vertical
programs. These programs absorb less than 10% of the public sector budget. The MSDS provides
population-based health services (e.g., vaccinations) directly in some States and Municipalities.
Duplication of Clinical Care Services. There is considerable overlap in the provision of clinical health
services for the employees of branches of the Venezuelan Government. The Ministry of Education runs health
care facilities for teachers and each branch of the Armed Forces own and runs health care facilities for its
staff. Several central government agencies (including the MSDS) contract services for their employees from
private providers. The Venezuelan Institute of Social Security (Instituto Venezolano de Seguridad Social, or
IVSS) also runs its own network of hospitals for formal sector workers, financing about half of its costs with
large chunks of the pension contributions that are managed in a single account with the health contributions of
IVSS.
Poor Management of Health Care Facilities. The organization and functioning of health care facilities in
Venezuela is plagued by weaknesses, including: (i) a deteriorated infrastructure, lack of basic equipment, and
frequent shortages of medical supplies and drugs; (ii) poor management; and (iii) poor information systems
and lack of coordination for patient referral.
Public sector hospitals in Venezuela are classified as Type I, II, II, IV, based on a scale of increasing
complexity. Type I and II hospitals are general facilities, and Type III and IV hospitals are secondary and
tertiary care facilities that also carry out university and postgraduate training.
The average occupancy rate of hospitals is 58%, indicating underutilization of beds in less complex hospitals
and ambulatory facilities. Hospital emergency rooms in Venezuela are overburdened because ambulatory
facilities have poor quality of care and few daily hours of service. This situation is of great concern, because
the cost of treating a patient may be five times or more as high in an emergency room as in an ambulatory
facility.
Very little funding is provided for the maintenance and or replacement of equipment in Venezuela's hospitals.
Eighty-five percent of Venezuela's annual hospital budget is allocated for salaries and 15% for drugs and
materials, leaving little or nothing for hospital equipment.
Inequity in Health Care. Inequity in Venezuelan health care is rooted in several factors. First, poor people
are excluded from all health systems designed to serve specific groups of public employees or formal sector
workers, except for the MSDS system. Second, MSDS per capita transfers to some States are as much as four
times higher as per capita transfers to other States. Finally, experience has shown that poor people make less
use of public outpatient clinics as such clinics have been neglected in Venezuela, and demand services as a
last resort in the emergency wards of hospitals.
Government Strategy. The challenge for the new Venezuelan Government under President Hugo Chavez, in
office since early 1999, is to restore economic stability and growth to the country by correcting fiscal
imbalances, modernizing public sector institutions, implementing structural and social reforms, and
diversifying the economic structure. The MSDS has been entrusted with the constitutional mandate of making
possible the universal right to health for all.
In the wake of the enactment of Venezuela's new Constitution (see Annex 2C), the Venezuelan Government
is in the early process of debating an ambitious new health law. The new health law would unify all public
health care systems in a decentralized framework that clarifies the competencies of the National, State, and



6
Municipal governments and encourages citizen participation. If approved as drafted, Venezuela's new health
law would do the following:
*  Strengthen public health interventions;
*  integrate the providers of the MSDS with those of IVSS;
*  integrate several sources of funding for health care and assign their management to a new central
independent agency which would manage all transfers for health to States and Municipalities;
*  regulate the pharmaceutical industry; and
*  provide standards for the training of health professionals.
3. Strategic sector issues addressed by the project
The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project will address the needs for investment and institutional
strengthening in the MDC's health sector.
Health Care in the MDC. A significant proportion of the health resources of Venezuela are concentrated in
the capital city of Caracas, yet the MDC suffers, perhaps more than other regions, many problems of
inefficiency and inequity. Health care in the MDC is generally provider oriented, curative rather than
preventive in nature, impersonal, fragmented, and of low quality.
The 17 hospitals in the MDC work without coordination with approximately 150 health centers called
"ambulatorios urbanos type I, II, III", scattered in the marginal urban areas. The ambulatory centers are small
facilities, most of which are in poor physical condition and have insufficient and outdated medical and support
equipment. The majority of the ambulatory centers provide general medical consultations and pediatric and
basic trauma care; some offer gynecology and obstetrics services, and some dental care services. Type II and
III ambulatory centers have a small laboratory for basic diagnostic tests, but personnel and medical supplies
are limited. Physicians and nurses have little knowledge of community health problems, including risk factors
associated with common illnesses and with emerging public health problems such as domestic violence,
HIV/AIDS and drug addiction. Home care visits or health teams organized for community health care are
nonexistent. One of the key constraints for optimal utilization of services in the MDC is the limited diagnostic
and treatment capacity of existing ambulatory facilities. This discredits the ambulatory facilities and shifts
primary health care users to hospital emergency facilities. Furthermore, long waiting lines and inconvenient
clinic hours for the poor working population is the common pattern in the MDC health care network.
The fragmentation among providers-hospitals, ambulatory facilities, and public health programs-has
negative consequences for both the efficiency and the equity of the referral system. In terms of allocative
efficiency, care for conditions that could have been treated effectively at lower levels of care in a community
setting is most frequently provided in the emergency wards of hospitals. The financing gap experienced by
many facilities also tends to widen, particularly among those located in marginal urban settings. The internal
structural problems of hospitals, clinics, and public health facilities- including administrative, managerial,
and financial weaknesses-compound this problem.
The Caracas Metropolitan Health Care Delivery System could greatly benefit from a modernization effort
including better-trained health managers, information systems and management, coupled with quality
assurance instruments.
The proposed Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project would refurbish facilities to address the structural
element of quality of care, replace old and acquire new equipment, ensure provision of pharmaceutical and
medical supplies, provide ambulances and communications for patient referrals and emergency care. It would



7
include the development and implementation of new governance and managerial models, and efficient and
transparent resource allocation mechanisms with incentives to ensure proposed results. The project would
foster efficiency and competitiveness of the MDC health care network by optimizing the adaptation of
management, clinical, and epidemiological information systems already developed by the MSDS.
The project will also deal with sector-wide issues, including the development of strategies and activities for
HIV/AIDS prevention and control, and the development of new legal and organizational instruments and
models for supporting the decentralization of health services in the MDC.
Strategic Choices. The project will support the development of integrated health care delivery networks
based on new health care organization, financing, and managerial arrangements. It would be implemented
following a phased approach to take into account the great variability in the metropolitan area of Caracas,
which includes different municipalities, with common deficits in health services infrastructure and quality of
care but each with different degree of progress in terms of health status of the population, level of
decentralization, and health care organization.
This strategy is consistent with the new government's decision to adapt and implement nationally the
integrated health care model developed in the Aragua State with the support of the WB-financed Health
Services Reform Project. The Government also wants to develop a participatory governance structure to
foster community involvement, and new managerial models, instruments and processes to improve the
operation of the network in the MDC.
The action plan for project preparation and implementation in each participating municipality involves the
following:
•  Epidemiological assessment to estimate the burden of disease in the selected pilot areas and define
priorities;
-  evaluation of cost-effectiveness of proposed set of health care interventions; and
-  assessment of the health service network, with particular attention to organizational and managerial
structure, availability of public and private facilities, geographical location of facilities, personnel/staffing
ratios, type of utilization of services by level of care, population served and other factors.
On the basis of the above analyses and findings, policy options and alternative health care organization
models will be designed for implementation in the participating areas.



8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex I and 2-A).
Indicative             Bank-        % of
Project Component           Sector      Costs       % of   financing       Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)    financing
Component #1: Strengthening of                    44.07     73.3      22.0         50.0
Health Care Networks
Component #2: Institutional                        6.84     11.3        3.4        50.0
Development
Component #3: Development of
Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS             2.74      4.5       2.7        100.0
Prevention and Control in the MDC
Component #4: Development of Legal                  .800     1.3        .400       50.0
and Organizational Instruments and
Models in the MDC
Component #5: Project Administration               5.54      9.1        1.4        25.4
and Evaluation
Total
Total Project Costs                               60.0     100.0      30.0         50.0
Front-end fee                                      .3                   .3
Total Financing Required                          60.3                30.3
Intervention Area:
Metropolitan District of Caracas. Municipality: Libertador; Parishes: Altagracia, Antimano, Candelaria,
Catedral, El Recreo, La Pastora, San Jose, San Bernardino, Sucre, 23 de Enero, El Junquito, Caricuao, La
Vega, Macarao, San Juan, Santa Teresa, El Paraiso, El Valle, Coche, San Agustin, Santa Rosalia, San Pedro,
and in the Miranda State, Municipalities: Baruta, Chacao, El Hatillo, and Sucre; Parishes: Baruta y El
Cafetal, Chacao, El Hatillo, Petare, Caucaguita, Fila de Mariches, La Dolorita y Leoncio Martinez.
Component #1: Strengthening Health Care Networks-US$ 44.07 million.
Under this component, the project would support: (i) the delivery of a comprehensive health care program
targeted at the vulnerable population of the MDC by supporting the development of a new health care model,
emphasizing the organization in networks of existing ambulatory centers, pre-hospital emergency medical
care services (ambulance system, communication system, and para-medic teams), and outpatient departments
of hospitals, in each of the selected districts and municipalities of MDC; and (ii) the improvement of the
diagnostic, treatment, and medical waste management capacity of network facilities to provide appropriate
and timely quality health care on an ambulatory and inpatient basis.
The project will finance subprojects for the rehabilitation and/or construction of physical infrastructure,
equipment, communication systems and ambulances for patient referral and emergency care, training of health
personnel, education and communication activities, and technical assistance for the improvement of supply
systems, and development of maintenance systems for physical infrastructure and equipment.



9
Component #2: Institutional Development-US$ 6.84 million.
To ensure the virtual integration of health facilities into networks and efficient and effective delivery of the
comprehensive health care program, the project would support under this component the institutional
modernization of health networks by: (i) implementing new resource allocation mechanisms developed under
the ongoing Health Services Reform Project to promote allocative and technical efficiency; (ii) developing
accounting, budgeting, contracting, billing and collection systems, including cost recovery from financial
intermediaries; (iii) developing managerial protocols for strategic planning, human resources development and
management, supplies and installations; clinical protocols to support performance improvement, quality
assurance; the revision and updating of the existing norms and guidelines for the handling and disposal of
medical waste in health care facilities; and measurement of outcomes and user satisfaction, and management
and continued education programs; and (iv) reengineering processes, including the development of minimum
accreditation standards, procedures and services in ambulatory and type II hospital networks; staff
certification, qualification requirements, competencies and productivity benchmarks; requirements and
specifications for physical infrastructure, equipment, and supplies to guide project investments.
The project would finance under institutional development subprojects technical assistance, training and
systems development to modernize health care organization and management structures and practices,
including management information, health care financing and quality assurance systems, and human resources
development.
Component #3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control in the
MDC-US$ 2.74 million.
The project would finance technical assistance, equipment, training and workshops to support the formulation
and implementation of prevention and control strategies and activities for HIV/AIDS and Sexually
Transmitted Infections (STIs) including information, education, and communication campaigns to raise
awareness and change behavior to reduce HIV/AIDS and STIs transmission, particularly among high-risk
groups; development of a second generation HIV surveillance system in the MSDS; development of an
information system for the control and follow up of H1V/AIDS patients; development of action plans; training
of health personnel; and equipping of two HIV/AIDS diagnostic centers.
Component #4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models in the MDC
US$0.800.
The project would finance technical assistance and activities to support health sector reform efforts at the
MDC. Assistance would cover issues that might affect the health services network modernization objectives
in the MDC, and those that could facilitate the definition of new institutional roles at the different levels of the
health system in accordance with the policy guidelines set by the MSDS. More specifically, it would: (i)
develop a legal framework to support greater autonomy of district and municipal health directorates and
service providers, including the redefinition of the relationship between the MSDS, the VSSI, local
governments, and services providers, with respect to key decisions e.g., capital investments, procurement of
goods and services, budgetary control, and personnel management; (ii) develop new governance models such
as Foundations, allowing local authorities and communities to share greater responsibility for the management
of the ambulatory care and hospital networks; adjustment of existing norms and regulations governing health
organization and managerial arrangements; (iii) develop and processing the approval of legal instruments for
establishing decentralized and unitary health care organizational arrangements; (iv) design of new policies and
mechanisms for managing human resources, and reforms to existing labor laws; (v) assessments and
development of proposals for reforming the supply of drugs and other medical supplies; and (vi) design of
instruments to help operationalize new health reform legislation, including the social security reform law.



10
Component #5: Project Administration and Evaluation-US$ 5.54 million
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision and impact evaluation at the
different levels of the system.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The proposed project would help to consolidate political and administrative decentralization of the health
system in the MDC. To this end, the project would assist the MSDS and the MDC and State of Miranda
health care directorates in:
*  Establishing health services networks for delivery of comprehensive health services;
*  improving resource allocation and financial management;
*  implementing total quality management protocols; and
*  institutional modemization and increased autonomy of State participating agencies, through the
reengineering of organizational arrangements, structures and processes, as well as the development of the
managerial capacity of the staff.
Additionally, the project would assist in developing HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies and activities
and in reviewing and reforming the legal organizational framework of the health system in the MDC.
3. Benefits and tareet population
The universe of potential beneficiaries is estimated to be 2.4 million persons, representing 70% of the total
population of the MDC and 11% of the population of Venezuela.
The proposed project would adapt and experiment with lessons generated elsewhere to change the organizational
incentive regime of health services as part of decentralization processes, as follows:
-  Degree of autonomy (decision rights) that the local organizations and networks have over control of
input mix and level, outputs and scope of activities, financial management, clinical and non-clinical
administration, strategic management and market strategy;
*  degree of accountability, when autonomy increases accountability must be secured by shifting from
hierarchical supervision to reliance on monitoring, regulations, and the economic incentives embedded in
results agreements;
*  degree of market exposure to mobilize additional revenues to complement budgetary allocations; and
*  degree of financial responsibility at the facility level.
The proposed project would develop an effective virtually integrated system of ambulatory and hospital care
services capable of resolving most clinical and surgical problems either at the ambulatory facilities, or by
referral, at hospital facilities, particularly Type II hospitals. The virtually integrated health care networks will
assure a continuum of care emphasizing community health, preventive, family medical and surgical care, and
including endemic and environmental control through community participation and inter-institutional
coordination. All health facilities would be networked by specific agreements and on-line medical records-
and clinical protocols regardless of the point of service.



I 
4. Institutional and implementation arrangiements (see Annex 2C)
Implementation Period: 5 years
Executing Agencies. The project would benefit from structures and procedures established in the MSDS for
executing the WB-financed Endemic Disease Control Project (Ln.3538-VE) and Health Services Reform
Project (Ln. 3823-VE). Project implementation will be under the responsibility of the MSDS'Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), which was established in January 1993 for managing the implementation of all
projects financed by international agencies, including the WB and the International Development Bank (IDB).
Project Coordination Unit (PCU).  The PCU, comprised of three units responsible for technical
coordination, monitoring and impact evaluation, and administrative and financial management, will be
responsible for: (i) leading, coordinating and monitoring project implementation as set forth in the Operations
Manual for the project; (ii) coordinating technical assistance for the design and implementation of project
activities under each component; and (iii) promoting and coordinating inter-institutional and inter-sectoral
arrangements for project implementation, including the coordination with participating health agencies and
civil society organizations at the MDC. The PCU will also be in charge of administrative and financial
support for all project activities, including the maintenance of accounting records, processing disbursements,
maintaining administrative records, contracts, and the carrying out of related activities. The PCU will review
all contracts and make payments for activities related to the project.
Coordination Teams at the MDC. Each health directorate at the MDC would appoint a project team with a
coordinator and other staff required to coordinate with the PCU the implementation of project activities in
their respective localities. The project team would be responsible for: (i) preparing annual implementation
plans, including proposals for requesting state and municipal funds; (ii) monitoring implementation of all
local-level activities included in the annual plans; and (iii) reporting semi-annually to the PCU.
Operations Manual. A draft Operations Manual has been prepared by the PCU and sent for WB review. It
would be a condition of effectiveness of the project that the Government adopts the Operations Manual
satisfactory to the WB. It would include the conditions for project implementation, such as guidelines for
preparing and implementing project activities, subproject eligibility and selection criteria, as well as technical
norms and administrative, budgetary, disbursements and procurement procedures to be followed during
project implementation according to WB guidelines and a model subproject implementation agreement.
Implementation Arrangements for the Establishing Health Care Networks at the MDC. Although
implementation of the health care networks will remain centralized in the MSDS, the Municipality of
Libertador in the MDC, and the Municipalities of Sucre, Baruta, Chacao y El Hatillo of the Sanitary District
#7 in the State of Miranda, following the terms of decentralization agreements entered into for the delivery of
health services prior to the establishment of MDC (based on the still in force 1990 Decentralization Law) will
continue to take an active role in the setting up of the health networks and in the establishment and operation
of the autonomous or semi-autonomous agencies that will operate the networks.
The MDC, the Miranda State and the concerned Municipalities will develop a legal or administrative
arrangement to agree to the implementation requirements of the networks and other health sector matters, and
all the parties to the arrangement and the MSDS will sign an agreement setting forth the implementation
arrangements for the project under the terms of subproject implementation agreements. The MSDS will
retain, (at least during the years of legal reforms required to clarify/ strengthen the health delivery functions of
the MDC, and to modify the role and structure for the MSDS) the overall implementation and the procurement
and financial management functions of the project. The Municipalities will have responsibilities for planning
and preparation of proposed investments, and the MDC and the State of Miranda for its coordination and
supervision. The MDC/State of Miranda and the Municipalities will have responsibilities for maintenance and
operation of the facilities, as the case may be, depending on the type of facilities (national, state, municipal)
where the investments are made. (Annex 2-C provides further details on the implementation agreements). The



12
signing of an implementation agreement is condition of disbursement of each strengthening and/or
institutional subproject.
Upon establishment of autonomous or semiautonomous health agencies acceptable to the WB, implementation
agreements for the transfer of the responsibilities to the decentralized agencies by those creating them will
also be required. The monitoring indicators call for the establishment of at least two decentralized agencies
during project implementation.
The changes in the legal and institutional framework will be closely monitored under the project so as to
adjust the project design and institutional arrangements as allowed by the enactment of a new health law or
other legal reforms, aiming to decentralize to the extent possible the project management functions retained by
the MSDS, to the MDC and/or Municipalities or decentralized agencies concerned. Any such legal or
institutional changes will also be assessed at the mid-term review of project implementation.
Annual Implementation and Investment Plans. The above agreements would establish the overall
framework for the activities to be carried out in the participating municipalities as part of annual
implementation and investment plans set forth in such agreement. Such annual implementation plans would
be prepared, evaluated and executed in accordance with the Operations Manual for the project. The MSDS's
PCU would act as a liaison agency with the WB and would be responsible for the procurement and
disbursement process pursuant to the WB's applicable rules. In case of non-compliance by any participating
institution of any of its obligations MSDS's PCU may with the agreement of the WB suspend or cancel the
financing of any of the activities originally assigned to such institution, and reallocate the respective resources
to other institutions.
Subproject Preparation. Technical issues to be addressed in the preparation of subprojects in participating
localities would include:
•  Definition of project area and beneficiary population. Identification and mapping of project areas.
*  Epidemiological and health services assessment. Assessment of: (i) estimation of the burden of disease
in project areas by age, sex, and causes, as well as for major risk factors; (ii) definition of the interventions
to address the health problems; and (iii) use results of these assessments, supplemented with studies
conducted elsewhere, to adjust the health program to be delivered.
*  Assessment of health services in project area. Assessment of: (i) organizational and managerial
structure, geographical location of facilities, personnel/staffing ratios, utilization by level of care, and
population served; (ii) available data on the cost and utilization of facilities; (iii) accounting and medical
record systems, quality assurance systems, and experience of health care managers; and (iv) constraints to
flexibility of health care reforms that could be found in: regulatory environment, legal and financial
systems, payment systems, relationship of hospital to primary care centers and physicians, managerial
discretion over financial and investment decisions, management of cost recovery funds, contractual
autonomy of procuring supplies for health facilities (e.g., pharmaceuticals, food services), autonomy over
managerial structure including organizational structure, personnel decision and salary schedules, and
interaction of facilities with local governments in the bidding and contracting processes.
*  Development options and models. Policy options and alternative health care organization models would
be designed based upon the previous reviews of demand and supply. Each policy option/model would
include: overall objective; proposed method of organization, financing and delivery; data requirements
for facilities and local governments; government role; strengths and weaknesses of proposal focusing on
total health care spending, spending by level of care, public sector spending, access to care, quality of
care, patient satisfaction, relationship and complementarities with other health care providers.



13
Procurement. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Official Gazette of December 12 has published Decree
1121 that modifies the existing Procurement Law (#296) "Ley de Licitaciones". The crucial change is the
introduction of a new article that excludes from the application of the law contracts financed with loans from
multilateral financial institutions. In these cases, the national entities are considered to be bound by the
agreements with these institutions. This puts an end to the uncertainty that was generated by the previous law
and ensures the applicability of the WB procurement rules. Because there is not a regulation to select
consultants, WB's Guidelines applies without any restriction. However, in order to improve the transparency
and competition for NCB and be acceptable to the WB, special provisions should be included in the Loan
Agreement on the following aspects: (i) registration as a condition of submission of bids; (ii) the use of two
envelopes; (iii) minimum period for submission of bids; (iv) requests by bidders for confidentiality of parts of
bids; (v) publication of cost estimates; (vi) use of cost estimates for disqualification of bids; (vii) declaring bid
null because two or more bids were not received; and (viii) fragmentation of subjects of procurement.
Procurement of works and goods financed by the WB under the project shall carried out in accordance with
World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). To the extent practicable contracts for goods
and works shall be grouping in bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000 and US$5,000,000 equivalent or
more each. Works procured under this project could include construction or rehabilitation of primary health
care units in order to adapt them to the new functions totaling about US$23.5 million equivalent. Major
contracts for these works will be procured following International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB),
using Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$5,000,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$15.0 million equivalent, may be procured using
National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) and agreed Standard Bidding Documents. Small works,
estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$2.0 million
equivalent may be procured through price comparison received in response to a written invitation to at least
three contractors.
Goods include medical and no-medical equipment, hardware and premise structure wiring totaling US$14.86
million equivalent. Major contracts for these goods will be procured following ICB procedures using SBDs.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of
US$1.5 million equivalent, may be procured using NCB procedures and agreed Standard Bidding Documents.
Contracts for goods that cannot be grouped into large bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$0.5 million equivalent, may be
procured using shopping (National or Intemational) procedures.
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by the WB
Borrowers and the WB as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Consultant services will be contracted in the following areas of expertise: training, design, construction
supervision, audits, and institutional development. These services are estimated to cost US$13.48 million
equivalent and would be procured using WB Standard Request of Proposals. All contracts for consultant
firms would be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Specialized advisory
services would be provided by individuals consultants selected by comparison of qualifications of at least
three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines, up to an aggregated amount of US$1,000,000.
Other consultant services should be awarded to the bidder whose bid has determined to be substantially
responsive to the bidding documents and who has offered the lowest evaluated price, provide that such bidder
is eligible and qualified. These services will be contracted under this project in the following areas: training
and workshops and the design of education, information and communication campaigns. These services are
estimated to cost US$8.26 million equivalent.
The specific area that will manage procurement activities in the PCU is called "Procura", this office has
experience in WB operation because they satisfactory executed previous World Bank's projects. Three of the



14
Procura's staff has attended WB's Procurement Seminars. To ensure PCU's and municipals' staff knowledge
of WB procurement guidelines and procedures, a Project Launch Seminar that includes procurement should be
scheduled early in September 2001, as well as procurement audits would be conducted during project
implementation. The loan will not finance operational costs.
Review by the World Bank. The proposed threshold (Annex 6-Table B) for prior review by the WB is based
on the procurement assessment of the project executive agency. The proposed thresholds will allow to prior
review 90% of the total project cost. In addition to this review of individual procurement actions, the annual
procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank, as well as procurement audits to be carried out
during the life of the project.
Financial Management.  A WB Financial Management Specialist carried out the required financial
management assessment in February 2001 in accordance with OD/BP 10.02.
The PCU, fully staffed with qualified professionals, with clear delineation of responsibilities within an
organization structure agreed with the World Bank, vouches for an efficient and effective management of all
areas of project implementation, including its financial management. An independent firm will audit the
PCtJ. The terms of reference for the independent audit as well as the short list firms to be invited to bid for
these services will be sent to the WB prior to loan effectiveness, and the firm selected for performing the
project audit will be hired within 90 days after loan effectiveness.
All financial management issues of the project will be the responsibility of the PCU. For that purpose, an
Administrative and Financial Unit has been established within the PCU. This Unit consists of a Coordinator,
a Disbursement Assistant, a Procurement Officer and an Officer for Budget Planning and Monitoring.
Responsibilities of each of them are detailed in the Operational Manual of the project.
Main responsibilities of the Administrative and Financial Unit include:
e  Manage, control and supervise the efficient use of financial resources, as well as transparency and
compliance with World Bank procedures and sound financial practices;
* supervise that procurement of goods and services complies with all WB guidelines and procedures along
with the operating plans of the project;
*  prepare all financial information on the project including sources and uses of funds, budget execution,
transfer, etc;
* control and efficiently manage the budget, keep records, reports and files of the financial management of
the project:
* coordinate the preparation of funds' cash flows every three month, as well on an annual basis;
*  supervise the update of procedures and controls for disbursement, accounting and budget;
* supervise the development and implementation of a system of financial management to administer the
Project, as well as all required procedures and controls for disbursement and budget, making sure that the
Investment Project is adequately monitored;
* coordinate and control the flow of funds, reporting to authorities about disbursements and any other
relevant financial information required for the adequate execution of the project;
* prepare and provide all the financial information required by external auditors; and



15
* train all PCU staff to ensure compliance with the World Bank guidelines on financial managemenr,
including requests of funds, reports of expenditures, establishment of internal controls and reports on the
disbursements of the Special Account funds.
Responsibility for managing the accounts and consolidating accounts will rest on the Accountant of the
Financial and Administrative Unit of the PCU. The project will disburse based on reported expenditures until
December 315', 2001 and in parallel will prepare Project management Reports (PMR) in order to move the
project to produce disbursement and financial information only through PMR after January Ist 2002 on a
regular and timely basis. The PCU will prepare and forward to the WB quarterly PMR (respectively by
January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year). By December 31 of each year beginning in 2001,
the PCU would prepare and forward to the WB an annual implementation plan detailing project activities
contemplated for the subsequent calendar year. Hence loan disbursements will be made on the basis of PMR.
Details of the flow of funds, as well as guidelines for each of the procedures must be contained in the project's
Operational Manual.
Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept by the PCU for at
least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement takes place. For all contracts requiring the
WB's prior review, full documentation will accompany disbursement request until disbursement is based on
PMR's.
Detailed documentation will be retained by the PCU for inspection during supervision missions and for review
by external auditors acceptable to the WB. These auditors will audit the Special Account and the other
financial statements annually. The audit report will be submitted to the WB no more than four months after
the end of each fiscal year. Detailed terms of reference for the auditors will be prepared following guidelines
included in the WB's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook.
Monitoring and evaluation. The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation, with
support from the MDC health agencies. A well designed and functioning monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system would be critical for the implementation of the project to provide coordinated feedback to the
developers, implementators, and policy decision-makers at different levels of the system.
There would be two types of M&E activities in the project:
a) Monitoring of project implementation. Progress reports regarding project implementation results and
expenditure for the preceding six months and a related review of achievements and shortfalls based on
established plans and objectives would be sent by the PCU to the WB every six months. The two reports
covering the immediate prior calendar year shall be consolidated into an annual review held by the WB
and the PCU in the third quarter of each calendar year during project implementation. A mid-term review
would be carried out at the beginning of the third year of project implementation to conduct a
comprehensive review of the project components. It would include, in addition: (i) an evaluation of the
effectiveness of provision of project inputs in achieving key targets for improving program performance
using Annex I details as the basis, and (ii) a review of the progress made in the legislative reforms of the
health sector, including any as shall be required to consolidate the decentralization and public
participation processes, and any changes that might be warranted in the project implementation
arrangements. The project design would be adjusted, if needed, including realigning budgets among
components and activities, on the basis of the mid-term evaluation. Specific surveys can be conducted to
obtain data for this purpose. Annual expenditure reviews would be conducted to assess government
commitment to the project as measured by budgetary allocations and their distribution by activity.
b) Impact evaluation. The aim of evaluation is to find out whether the interventions are effective or the
program is having the desired impact. The evaluation will include both quantitative and qualitative
aspects and be conducted on a yearly basis. The quantitative aspects will rely on new information systems



16
and surveys implemented as part of the various components of the project, currently existing data sources,
and primary evaluative data collection efforts. The goal of the qualitative aspect of the evaluation will be
to document perceptions of program managers, staff, patients, and MDC and national leaders. Qualitative
information will be collected using site-visit interviews, focus groups, and respondent surveys. A baseline
survey to collect information on MDC's epidemiological and health services delivery aspects were
conducted during project preparation. The ex-post evaluation of the overall project will assess if project
activities achieved intended results. The PCU will complete an Implementation Completion Report with
inputs from the WB, other donors, and the regional agencies. Project evaluation would be conducted by
an outside agency.
Supervision.  The project is anticipated to require intensive supervision especially in the initial
implementation phase because of its interinstitutional and decentralized nature.
D. Project Rationale
1. Proiect alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Two alternatives to the proposed project were considered and rejected:
A project with a national scope. This alternative was rejected because it would limit potential to have a
positive impact on poor people living in the densely populated marginal urban areas of Caracas with limited
access to health services. Selection of areas other than the metropolitan area of Caracas, where 40% of the
country's population is concentrated, would create multiple demands and dissipate the efforts and resources
that could otherwise be allocated in the MDC. In addition, this alternative is fully consistent with one of the
main priorities of the current Government.
A top-down, fully detailed blueprint approaches. This alternative was rejected because, in the context of
this project, a blueprint project for each district and municipality in the MDC would have been too rigid given
its social and economic, as well as the institutional heterogeneity of the project. Instead, the project is
designed as a broad common fund to finance in a gradual and incremental manner organizational and
institutional changes according to an agreed set of criteria and procedures. This allows for participatory
approaches to engage different sectoral actors at the different levels of the health system, including
community organizations, test out a wider option of reform instruments to learn and incorporate lessons of
experience, and build implementation capacity through human resources development.



17
2. Maior related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, on2oinz
and planned)
Sector issue       Project                                Objectives
World Bank-                     Latest Supervision (Form 590)
financed projects:              Ra ings for Bank-Financed Projects
Implementation             Development Objective
Progress
Health Reform   Health Services     Satisfactory (S)   1. Redefine health policies related to the
Reform Project                          organization and financing of services;
(3823-VE)                           2. Promote decentralization by building the
capacity of four States and their respective
health facilities to plan and manage health
care in a decentralized framework; and
3. Enhance the quality and efficiency of
government services by rehabilitating plant
and replacing equipment in ambulatory
facilities and hospitals.
Endemic         Endemic Disease     Satisfactory (S)   I . Reduce the incidence and impact of
Disease         Control Project                         endemic diseases; and
Control         (3538-VE)                            2. Strengthen the institutions responsible for
endemic disease control.
Project closed on June 2000; ICR was
prepared.
Projects of other
development
agencies:
Health Reform  IDB-Financed                          Similar objectives as the World Bank-financed
Health Project     Satisfactory (S)    project. Project being implemented in areas not
cover by World Bank-financed operation.
KEY: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory); HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned reflected in proposed proaect design
The design and content of the proposed Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project builds on the experience
with the two WB-financed projects: the ongoing Health Services Reform Project and the recently completed
Endemic Diseases Control Project. The Health Services Reform Project supported a comprehensive health
care strategy developed in Aragua State and other experiences in the Zulia, Falcon, and Trujillo States. The
lessons from these projects are: successful implementation is closely associated with: (i) linking the definition
of project objectives and scope to a clear policy framework; (ii) obtaining strong and sustained government
commitment; (iii) designing simple projects with focused and modest objectives; (iv) linking financing of
critical investments to the implementation of policy and/or institutional reform; (v) community participation
ensures ownership of project activities; (vi) periodic evaluation of the project is essential to allow adjustments
to be made to the project design and its implementation arrangements; and (vii) conducting intensive technical
supervision by the WB.



18
Given the limited institutional capacity of MDC health agencies, their lack of familiarity with WB procedures,
and the complexity of required policy and institutional reforms, the design of the project is simple but
relevant, particularly in terms of advancing the decentralization strategy in the health sector and the
integration of service providers. Project preparation has given particular attention to sharpening the focus of
project objectives, specifying the scope of the components, and refining the contents and timetable of
implementation arrangements. Effectively reaching targeted populations such as poor people is a common
problem. The proposed project would address this problem by targeting the delivery of a cost-effective
comprehensive health care plan to the most disadvantaged people living in project districts and municipalities
in the MDC.
The Venezuelan Government is committed to promote community participation-both to stretch available
resources and to create user's ownership and greater development impact. The Caracas Metropolitan Health
Services project would benefit from positive results with the Social Development Project. That project
supported multi-household preschool centers, jointly constructed with the community, based on the idea that if
communities consider these facilities to be "theirs," they will be more likely to supervise and maintain them
over time. It will also benefit from the positive experiences of the Endemic Diseases Control Project in
involving families with materials and labor in the construction of latrines and rehabilitation of homes. Social
funds in Latin America and the Caribbean are demonstrating that, with appropriate technical support,
community groups can both contribute labor and monitor implementation of small works such as the
rehabilitation of ambulatory health care facilities.
Projects often suffer from the lack of explicit indicators to measure progress and end-results. The proposed
project would ensure adequate financial and technical support for developing appropriate indicators for
monitoring and evaluating project processes, results and impact. During project preparation, baseline data has
been collected and an ex-ante economic and financial evaluation of the project has been conducted on the basis of
this information.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
. A letter from the MSDS to Country Unit Management of the WB dated April 30, 1999, requesting a
mission for the identification of the proposed Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project; and
* agreements reached by officials from the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Planning,
and the MSDS on project's objectives and scope, as detailed in preparation mission's Aide Memoire
documentation. Ministry of Planning has included the proposed project in the Ley Paraguas for 2000-
2001 that authorizes the contracting of loans from international organizations.
5. Value added of World Bank support in this proiect
WB's involvement has been a conduit for exchange of international experience and exposure to best practices,
and will continue to provide the country counterpart team with access to relevant international experience in
health sector development. The WB has already helped transfer the experience from similar projects
worldwide, both in the technical design of the project and in the development of implementation arrangements
that ensure a successful operation. In addition, during project implementation, WB's participation would: (i)
provide stronger oversight on the use of funds, consistent with WB procurement and disbursement guidelines;
(ii) permit on-going evaluation of the project during project implementation and adjustments, if necessary; and
(iii) facilitate coordination with other health and poverty reduction programs.
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
[X] Cost benefit          [X] Cost effectiveness [ ] Other [specify]



19
This project is expected to directly benefit the population of five municipalities in Greater Caracas.
Approximately 85 percent of this population, of 1.7 million today and expected to reach 2.5 million by 2020,
is potential users of public health services. Of them 1.5 million are expected to become users of ambulatory
care facilities to be supported by this project. A comparison of the demand and supply of services suggests a
large unsatisfied gap, equivalent to 85% of the potential demand.
The project will generate direct and indirect project benefits. The former was estimated using expected years
of life, valued by the contribution of the active labor force to GDP. Indirect benefits were valued in terms of
the expected effect of the project by reducing the congestion of emergency rooms in existing hospitals of
Greater Caracas. To this end, indirect benefits estimate the savings estimated by the differential cost between
ambulatory care and similar care in hospital emergency care facilities.
The cost benefit analysis suggests a high return to the proposed investment. The cost per day, estimated over
ten years, was between US$0.88 and US$14. Net present value, estimated with a discount rate of 12% was
estimated as US$491.60,90. The estimated internal rate of return is over 66%, when the indirect benefits are
included. If only direct benefits are included (as is usually the case in comparable economic analysis of
projects), the internal rate of return is 15.8%. The distributive impact of the project was also estimated, by
measuring the share of benefits that would accrue to the poor - over 50% of benefits are expected to reach this
group. Simulations indicate that the expected positive results of the project are robust to conservative
assumptions of project impact.
2. Financial
Project financial sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government to cover the operating costs of
project investments. The following project elements will ensure the long-term sustainability of the project: (i)
it will refrain from financing health personnel salaries as these expenditures would be cover by the
participating entities with regular budgetary resources; and (ii) other operating costs, such as pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies, will be financed by local counterpart funds. In addition, financing from participating
localities outside project's financing plan as laid out in the project participation agreements would help ensure
local level ownership and the long-term sustainability of the project activities.
3. Technical
The project is technically justified on the basis of the importance of the problems it addresses, the cost-
effectiveness of the interventions to be delivered in project areas, their affordability, and the political
consensus on the need for institutional reforms and decentralized health care organization and delivery
arrangements.
To help reduce high infant and child mortality and morbidity, the project would support the development of
integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI), as part of the comprehensive health services program.
The implementation of IMCI worldwide is supported by different international cooperation agencies as one of
the most cost-effective public health strategies. Indeed, the WB's 1993 World Development Report,
confirmed that IMCI is the most efficient health intervention in terms of its impact on the burden of disease
and death in the population, and is the most cost-effective health intervention. The approach in this strategy is
to treat the child as a whole instead of directing attention to parts of the problem. IMCI teaches health
workers how to evaluate major problems and diseases that affect the health of the children, to detect and treat
specific diseases or sign of danger, and also include educating parents on how to care for children in the home,
to prevent diseases and improve their general health conditions. The delivery of the comprehensive health care
program would also be geared to address the poor health of women and to curb maternal mortality through
services such as prenatal care, referral of high risk pregnancies, family planning, IUV/AIDS and STIs
prevention and control, and cervical cancer screening. In addition, the capacity of district and municipal
health care networks to manage appropriately complications of delivery would be improved by upgrading
physical infrastructure and equipment, training personnel, and strengthening the referral network.



20
As shown elsewhere, the proposed set of prevention interventions would be effective in reducing the spread of
HIV infection. The challenge would be to bring these interventions to scale and sustain them over time.
Furthermore, the project, in accordance with some general lessons that have been learned elsewhere, would
raise efficiency in MDC facilities through improvements in policymaking, governance, management,
incentives, and accountability (encouraging decentralization and health services integration), and raise the
quality of care through the establishment of quality assurance systems and training of personnel. The project
would foster in the medium and long term a more balance participation by local communities, secure adequate
levels of financing, improve budgeting practices and allocate resources according to priorities. Worldwide
evidence indicates that improved integration of patient care enhances overall performance of the healthcare
organization. Evidence also exists indicating that coordination and integration of information flows across
stages in the patient care process, lowers total system costs, or enhances overall performance in other ways.
4. Institutional
Institutional feasibility of the proposed project will be a major concern during implementation. The project
should deepen the ongoing decentralization process in the MDC's health system, particularly through
organizational and institutional adjustments required by Health Directorates in the DMC, State of Miranda,
and participating Municipalities. However, decentralization, widely perceived in Venezuela as a means to
foster greater local participation, is constrained by the lack of a clearly defined legal framework and weak
institutional capacity at the district, municipal and health services delivery levels in the MDC. These factors
would limit the scope and rapidity of the proposed reforms. In response to these challenges, project
implementation would emphasize incremental changes, and be linked to decentralization and public sector
reform and modernization strategies and programs for the country as a whole.
5. Social
The principal social issue relates to the ability to target the needy population. Eligibility criteria and cost-
effective health delivery strategies were developed during project preparation to ensure that project
intervention activities go to the poorest people-especially poor people who are currently excluded from
access to quality basic health care in marginal urban areas in the MDC. Participatory activities initiated
during project preparation would continue for expanding local governments' and community involvement.
The strategy for project preparation has been participatory and emphasized broad consultation.  The
effectiveness and viability of project activities in the MDC will require strong political support from higher
levels of district and municipal governments and broad stakeholder consultation and participation, in close
coordination with.
6. Environmental assessment
Environmental category: [ ]A  [X]B  [ ]C
Given the deficient medical waste management procedures in the public health facilities of the MDC, as
documented in an assessment prepared during the preparation of the project (see Annex 2-D), under
Component 1, the following specific activities will be supported:
*  Handling and disposal of medical waste. (i) revision and updating of the existing norms and guidelines
for the handling and disposal of medical waste in health care facilities; and (ii) training of health
personnel in the application of these standards to protect high-risk human groups such as patients as well
as health staff in the participating facilities.
*  Upgrades of equipment. Second, the project would replace outdated, inefficient, or unsafe equipment
with safer, more efficient designs. The project would rehabilitate malfunctioning or inoperative basic
systems for water, electricity, and air conditioning, thus making a healthier environment.



21
* Procedures outlined in the project's Operations Manual. Third, environmental construction norms,
internal waste management in health facilities, personnel health and safety provisions for the handling and
disposal of bio-medical waste, and equipment operation will be part of the Operations Manual for the
project.
7. Participatory approach
Project preparation has supported multiple participatory approaches for engaging primary beneficiaries, local,
district, State and central level stakeholders. MDC government authorities and organized community
members were consulted during project preparation, regarding both the pertinence of the project and the
willingness to participate during all the stages of the project with positive responses. The MSDS has been
entrusted with promoting social networks as part of the Venezuelan Government's strategy to comply with the
new constitutional mandate that the community be involved in the formulation and implementation of national
development activities.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project would be sustainable because it enjoys support at the highest political levels; major sectoral
stakeholders have been involved in project preparation and would participate in project implementation
assuring country ownership; the fiscal impact of the investments is expected to be modest; and project
implementation would be managed by a strong technical group at the PCU, with vast experience in managing
projects financed by the WB and the IDB, with support from MDC teams. In addition, strong commitment of
Government for counterpart financing has been obtained.
Project sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government to cover the operating costs of project
investments. The following project elements will ensure the long-term sustainability of the project: (i)
ambulatory services, including outpatient services in referral hospitals, will be favored over inpatient services,
further decreasing the incremental recurrent costs; (ii) it will refrain from creating new staff positions; and (iii)
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and the salaries of PCU staff and the operating expenditures of the PCU
will be financed 100% by the Government.



22
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective":           Continued involvement of major stakeholders (e.g. district
Lack of sufficient project ownership by       M      and municipal authorities, MSDS, health personnel,
district and municipal governments in the            beneficiaries) was begun during project preparation and is
MDC may affect project ownership and delay           planned during project implementation
its implementation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to            M        Project would build upon institutional and social
Outputs":                                             arrangements for ongoing WB-supported operation in the
Number and variety of actors involved                 health sector. Clear project management and
(central level, MDC, districts, municipalities,      implementation responsibilities would be assigned to
health personnel, community groups).                  participating entities. Project design will be flexible.
Weak institutional capacity at MDC and        S      Project implementation would follow a gradual and
facility levels.                                     incremental approach to allow for institutional building;
and would proceed separately in each district and
municipality, diminishing the risk of administrative or
financial bottlenecks affectinig the project as a whole;
technical assistance would support the preparation and
implementation of activities at the local levels.
Limited funds to finance recurrent costs.    M       Project would build up on financial arrangements adopted
under ongoing WB-financed projects to engage State and
Municipal governments in co financing project activities.
Financing of recurrent costs such as salaries of PCU staff
and pharmaceuticals would be financed 100% by
Government.
Approval of poor-quality annual               M      There would be use of transparent eligibility and evaluation
implementation plans on the basis of political       criteria for subprojects and for assessing annual
patronage.                                            implementation plans, and independent monitoring and
financial audits.
Overall Risk Rating  Moderate I
Risk), S (Substantial Risk Rating - H (High Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
*  Adoption by the MSDS of an Operations Manual satisfactory to the World Bank;
*  development at PCU of adequate project financial management system, including assets and inventory
management and intemal control; and
*  signing of the Umbrella Agreement between MSDS, the MDC, the State of Miranda and participating
Municipalities under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank whereby the parties will agree
to the implementation of the project as designed and following the requirements of the operations manual.



23
2. Other
Condition of Disbursement for goods, works and services related to each Subproject:
Signing of the respective Subproject Implementation Agreement between MSDS, the MDC, the State of
Miranda and the Municipalities where the network is established setting forth their respective
responsibilities and the applicable performance and delivery indicators.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Patricio Marquez, Team Leader -Olivier LafOLircide, CMU Director
4avier Coll, Sector Director



24
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-Related CAS      Sector Indicators:          Sector/Country Reports:    (From Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                                           Mission)
*  Reduced infant, under  National socio-economic    * Other macroeconomic
Poverty alleviation          5 child and maternal    data, MSDS health statistics,   and social variables
measured in terms of         mortality              and project monitoring and   within and beyond the
accelerated social                                  evaluation reports           control of the
development                                                                      Venezuelan
Government are
favorable or neutral
Project Development                                 Project Reports:           (From Objective to
Objectives:                                                                     Goal)
MSDS and MDC health
* Increased coverage of         .      . .             * A substantial number
Expansion of the access    health services for 2.4    services statistics        of the MDC
to and improvement of      million poor in the      Information systems of       population with
the quality and efficiency  MDC, by locality        network facilities in project  unmet basic needs
of ambulatory facilities,                           areas                        have limited access to
including    outpatient                             Project monitoring and       integrated health
departments of hospitals, * District/Municipal Health  impact evaluation         services due to
forple   mivion  poor      Directorates legally     Special studies and surveys  geographic,
people living in selected  established in project                                economic, cultural,
Pmuicles        f  t       areas with authority to                               and security barriers
metroipolitans Dr   of     manage with autonomy                                * Improved quality,
Metropotan DCstrct of     health care organization                              access, and coverage
Caracas (MDC);            and delivery of services                              would increase the
Institutional development                                                        utilization of health
that will improve  the * Adoption of policies and                                services in the MDC
management   of  the       strategies for preventing                           * Availability and
health care system  and    and controlling                                       efficient allocation of
consolidate        the     HIV/AIDS                                              resources would
decentralization  process                                                        contribute to improve
in the health sector of the                                                      the effected   of
MDC;                                                                             the integrated health
services delivery
Development         of                                                           network
HIV/AIDS   prevention                                                            MSDS and Alcaldia
and control strategies and                                                       Mayor have the
activities in the MDC.                                                           political will to
support project
implementation
* Health personnel and
community
organizations support
institutional reforms
and improvements.



25
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
.__________________ _    .      .Indicators
Output from Each        Output Indicators:          Project Reports:            (From Outputs to Objective)
Project Component:
Component #1:           Coverage
Strengthening of        o Percentage of women in    MSDS and MDC health
Health Care Networks   oPretg  fwmni                  SSadMChat
&                          reproductive ages (12-49   services statistics       * MSDS, Alcaldia Mayor,
Component #2:              years) who use           Information systems of         district and municipal
Institutional              contraceptive methods;    network facilities in project  authorities, community
Development             o Percentage of children    areas                          organizations and health
(under 1 year)           Project monitoring and        workers are committed to
1                          imuie against            imac evlutinhealth care organization and
measles;                 ipcevlaonservice delivery reforms
o Percentage of school-age   Special studies and surveys
children (7-14 years)                               * Districts and municipalities
with dental health                                     at the MDC have the capacity
controls;                                              to implement project
o Number of general                                       activities
medical consultations;
o Number of pediatric                                  * Counterpart funding is
consultations;                                         available
o Percentage of fertile age
women assessed for                                   *  Institutional reengineering
cervix cancer; and                                      takes place without
o Percentage of                                             resistance from interest
tuberculosis patients                                    groups
treated and followed up.
Quality                                                 *  Health care organization
and institutional reforms
o Percentage of pregnant                                    are maintained
women with at least four                                 unconstrained by political
prenatal consultations;                                  changes
o Percentage mothers with
postnatal controls;
Efficiency in the provision
of health care services
o Productivity index for
general       medical
services;
o Productivity index for
pediatric care;
o Productivity index for
gyneco-obstetric  care;
and
o Productivity index for
dental care.



26
oHierarchy ;Ot bje          Key PerforwaRae       M oitoring aud Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Component #1:              Output Indicators:     Project Reports:          (From Outputs to Objective)
Strengthening of
Health Care Networks    Management
&                                                 MSDS and MDC health       * MSDS, Alcaldia Mayor,
Component #2:           a Monthly production of    services statistics         district and municipal
Institutional              health care statistics;
Development (cont.)     o Decentralization in the    Information systems of    authorities, community
management of human   network facilities in project  organizations and health
resources;            areas                         workers are committed to
o Decentralization in the  Project monitoring and     health care organization and
management of financial  impact evaluation          service delivery reforms
resources;             Special studies and surveys   * Districts and municipalities
management of physical                              at the MDC have the capacity
resources;                                         to implement project
o Adoption of an                                      activities
intersectoral strategy for
managing health risks at                         * Counterpart funding is
the community level;                                available
o Implantation of
management                                       .  Institutional reengineering
information system for                              takes place without
budgetary preparation                                resistance from interest
and control;                                         groups
o Implantation of
management                                       .  Health care organization
information system for                               and institutional reforms
human resources                                      are maintained
management;                                          unconstrained by political
o Implantation of                                       changes
management
information system for
program administration;
o Implantation of the health
information system for
integrated health care
delivery (SISMAI); and
o Development and
implantation of a
financial incentives
scheme for health
workers.
Civil society participation
o Number of civil society
organizations  working
with the health care
delivery system; and
o Number of operational
plans developed with the
community.



27
Hierarchy of Objectives     Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators        ___
Component #3:           Output Indicators:         Project Reports:           (From Outputs to Objective)
Development of
Strategies and                 HIV/AIDS            MSDS reports               *  Government, MSDS, State
Activities for                  Prevention and     Project monitoring and         and Municipal authorities,
HIV/AIDS Prevention             Control formulated  impact evaluation             and civil society
and Control in the              MD   P     Y       Special studies and surveys    organizations committed to
MDC                             anDC adpeystrengthening HI V/AIDS
HIV/AIDS behavior             prevention and control
*  HIV/AIDS            surveillance cross-sectional   policies, strategies and
Prevention and     surveys in the general         programs
Control Plans      population and defined high-
developed in the   risk groups, along with    *  Interest groups do not exert
MDC and in the     sentinel zero-surveillance in  opposition to new policies
rest of Sates in the   high risk groups           and strategies
country and the
Capital District;
* Development of.
Second Generation
HIV/AIDS
Surveillance as part
of MSDS' Disease
Surveillance
System



28
Hierarchy of Objectives     Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Component #4:
Development of Legal    Formulation, approval,     MSDS reports               * Health laws that are
and Organizational      enactment and dissemination  Project monitoring and      consistent with the 1999
Instruments and         of new legal and           impact evaluation             Venezuelan Constitution are
Models in the MDC       organizational models                                    approved by Congress and
enacted by the President
Amendments to existing
laws and formulation of                               * Congress favors passage of
policy proposals on                                      laws to modernize the health
alternatives for human                                  sector
resources management,
including: decentralization,                          * Interest groups do not exert
flexible contracting,                                    opposition to new laws and
performance/salary                                       regulations
incentives
Information, communication
and education plan
developed for dissemination
of new laws and regulations
National and regional
seminars conducted for
dissemination of new laws
and regulations



29
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
_______ _______ _______Indicators         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Component #5: Project  Output Indicators:         Project Reports:          (From Outputs to Objective)
Administration and
Evaluation             PCU properly staffed with                            Human and financial resources
experienced technical,    Project implementation     available in a timely fashion
financial and administrative   monitoring and evaluation
professionals.            reports                    Sustained commitment by
MSDS and MDC for project
National, district and                               implementation
municipal stakeholders and
civil society organizations                          Low turnover of key staff
participating in project
implementation
Project Components &   Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:          (From Components to
Subcomponents:         component                                            Outputs)
Component #1:          Subtotal: US$44.07
Strengthening of       million
Health Care Networks
Component #2:
Institutional
Development            Subtotal: US$6.84 million
Component #3:
Development of
Strategies and
Activities for         Subtotal: US$2.74 million
HIV/AIDS Prevention
and Control in the
MDC                                    _         _
Component #4:
Development of Legal
and Organizational     Subtotal: US$.800 million
Instruments and
Models in the MDC
Component #5: Project
Administration and     Subtotal: US$5.54 million
Evaluation
Total: US$60.3



30
Definition of Indicators
Coverage Indicators
1. Percent of women (12-49 years old) using family planning = N0 of women (12-49 years old) usintt
family planning /total women 12-49 years old in catchment area x 100.
2. Percent of one year old children vaccinated against measles = N0 of one year old children vaccinated
against measles per year / total one year old children in catchment's area x 100.
3. Percent of school age children (7-12 years old) with oral health checkups = N0 of school age children
(7-12 years old) with oral health checkups per year/total school age children (7-12 years old) in catchmenit
area x 100.
4. Percent of total population with health consultations = N0 of general medicine and pediatric
consultations per year/N° of expected medical and pediatric consultations per year in population of the
catchment area x 100.
5. Percent of women 15 years and older with Pap smear = N0 of Pap smears in women 15 years and older
per year/total No of women 15 years and older in catchment area xl 00.
6. Percent of preschoolers (2-6 years old) attending school hygiene consultations = N0 of preschoolers
(2-6 years old) attending school hygiene consultations per year/total preschoolers (2-6 years old) in
catchment area x 100.
7. Percent of TB suspected symptomatic with BK sputum test = N0 TB suspected symptomatic with BK
sputum test per year/total N0 of expected TB suspected symptomatic (5% of total consultations) in1 5
years old and older, per year x 100.
Efficiency/quality Indicators
1. Prenatal visits per pregnant woman = N0 of prenatal visits /N0 of attending pregnant women.
2. Percent of pregnant women attending prenatal care within first trimester of pregnancy = N° of first
trimester pregnant women attended/N0 of pregnant women attending prenatal care x 100.
3. Percent of pregnant women first time attending prenatal care after first trimester of pregnancy =
N0 of pregnant women first time attended after first trimester of pregnancy/N0 of pregnant women
attending prenatal care x 100
4. Percent of mothers with postnatal consultation = N0 of mothers attended with postnatal consultation/N0
of deliveries attended x 100.
5. Early prenatal care index = N0 of first trimester attended pregnant women/= N0 of pregnant women first
time attended, after first trimester of pregnancy.
6. Percent of pregnant women with HIV/AIDS screening = N0 of pregnant women HIV/AIDS tested per
year /N° of pregnant women attended in prenatal care per year x 100
7. Percent of pregnant women with first anti-tetanus vaccine doses = N0 of pregnant women with first
anti-tetanus vaccine doses per year/ N0 of pregnant women attending prenatal care per year x 100.



31
8. Percent of TB patients abandoning treatment = N° of TB patients abandoning treatment per year /
Total N0 of TB patients under treatment.
9. Percent of suspected measles cases investigated = N0 of suspected measles cases investigated per
year/N° of suspected measles cases reported per year x 100.
10. Monthly general medicine Index of productivity = N0 of monthly general medicine consultations/N° of
contracted general medicine hours per month.
11. Monthly pediatric Index of productivity = N° of monthly pediatric consultations/N0 of contracted
pediatric hours per month.
12. Monthly gyneco/obstetric Index of productivity = N° of monthly gyneco-obstetric consultations/N0 of
contracted gyneco-obstetric hours per month.
13. Monthly productivity Index of Dentistry = N° of monthly dental consultations/N0 of contracted
odontology hours per month
Management Indicators
1. Monthly timely and reliable service production statistics. As a means to follow up and evaluate the
process. Data collected in EPI forms will be transfonned into SISMAI data.
2. Decentralization of financial resource management:  First, to districts and then, to ambulatory
facilities.
3. Decentralization of human resource management: To the districts.
4. Decentralization of goods (facilities, equipment, etc) administration: To the districts
5. Intersectoral health processes: Celebration of cooperation agreements with other ministries, such as,
education, environment for joint execution.
6. Establishment of budget management information system: System functioning.
7. Establishment of human resources management information system. System functioning.
8. Establishment of management information system: System functioning.
9. Establishment of Maintenance management information system: System functioning.
10. Percent of district ambulatory facilities preparing operations plan and budget.
11. Establishment (by the District) of a model of comprehensive care information system (SISMAI):
System functioning.
12. Establishment of economic incentives for workers: Incentives different from moral and psychological
rewards established to reward effort and merits.
Social Participation Indicators
1. N° community participation organizations actively operating: Those organizations performing 12 or
more meetings per year.



32
2. N° of operative plans jointly developed with the socio sanitary board: Plans prepared and under
implementation.



33
Annex 2-A: Detailed Project Description
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project will help address the needs for investment and institutional
strengthening in the MDC's health system, and will also help develop strategies and activities for the
prevention and control of HIV/AIDS.
Project Area
Geographically, the project would cover the following localities:
Caracas Metropolitan District. Municipality: Libertador; and Parishes: Altagracia, Antimano, Candelaria,
Catedral, El Recreo, La Pastora, San Jose, San Bernardino, Sucre, 23 de Enero, El Junquito, Caricuao, La
Vega, Macarao, San Juan, Santa Teresa, El Paraiso, El Valle, Coche, San Agustin, Santa Rosalia, San Pedro;
and in the Miranda State: Municipalities: Baruta, Chacao, El Hatillo, and Sucre; and Parishes: Baruta y El
Cafetal, Chacao, El Hatillo, Petare, Caucaguita, Fila de Mariches, La Dolorita y Leoncio Martinez.
The project would be implemented in a succession of stages in order gradually to include, during the length of
the project, all the institutions involved in providing health care in the MDC: the outpatient network of the
Health Directorate of the Metropolitan District and the Miranda State Health Directorate (both of which belong
to Health District No. 7), the VSSI, and the Mayors' offices in the municipalities of Baruta, Hatillo, Chacao, and
Sucre, along with the outpatient centers of the respective referral hospitals.
Population Coverage
The universe of potential beneficiaries is estimated to be 2.4 million persons, representing 70% of the total
population of the MDC and 11% of the population of Venezuela, and the project is expected to contribute in
the medium term to the improvement of the health status of the beneficiary population.
Project Components
The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project would have five components, each of which is discussed
below:
*   Component # 1: Strengthening of Health Care Networks;
*   Component #2: Institutional Development;
*   Component #3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control in the
MDC;
* Component #4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models in the MDC; and
* Component #5: Project Administration and Evaluation.
Component #1: Strengthening of Health Care Networks-US$44.07 million
Under this component, the project would support the strengthening of health care networks in the MDC to
facilitate access, expand coverage, and improve the quality of health services in selected Parishes and
Municipalities.



34
Current Situation. Primary health care, delivered basically through ambulatory facilities, is a core aspect of
the desired health care model. Nevertheless, it has not proved possible so far to achieve the coverage and
quality of care that both the health authorities and the population want. Much of that is due to low diagnostic
and treatment capacity in ambulatory facilities, which have driven users to seek care at hospital emergency
care units or other public or private specialized centers. This, in turn, has led to congestion and a severe
deterioration in the quality of services in the emergency units of hospitals. One outcome of this situation is
the low public satisfaction with the MDC's health facilities, and the negative impact on the poor of diseases
that could have been prevented, or diagnosed and treated at an early stage.
The network's installed capacity is currently 30-40% below what is required to satisfy current demand, while
existing facilities, particularly ambulatory centers, are operating at 45%-60% of capacity due to serious
structural, managerial and operational deficiencies.
Although health care levels are currently defined, in practice, the services network has developed in an
anarchic, uncoordinated fashion, with several institutions in charge (MSDS, Governors' offices, Mayors'
offices, and the VSSI) but incapable of complementing each other in practice.
Development of a New Health Care Model. The project will support the delivery of a comprehensive health
care program targeted at the poor through the development of a new health care model, emphasizing the
organization in networks of existing ambulatory centers, pre-hospital emergency medical care services
(ambulance system, communication system, and para-medic teams), and outpatient services of referral
hospitals, in each of the selected municipalities and parishes of MDC.
Comprehensive Health Care Program. The delivery of the services included in the comprehensive health
care program detailed in Box I below would be organized into six subprograms, which would be coordinated at
the facility, regional and national levels:
* Comprehensive child care;
*  comprehensive care for adolescents;
*  comprehensive care for adults;
*  comprehensive care for the elderly (age 65 and over);
*  environmental health; and
*  family health.
The comprehensive health care program has been defined following a biological, psychological, and social
approach in order to attend continuously to the health needs and problems of the target population, including
health promotion and prevention, injury control, diagnosis and treatment of diseases, rehabilitation services,
epidemiological surveillance, and control of environmental risks.



35
Box 1: Comprehensive Health Services Program
I. Health promotion.
2. Pre-natal and post-natal care.
3. Childbirth and miscarriage care.
4. Neo-natal care.
5. Check-ups and stimulation of child growth and development.
6. Vaccination.
7. Early detection of cancer of the cervix, breast, prostate gland, and colon.
8. Contraception and protection against STDs and WV/AIDS.
9. Nutrition and malnutrition.
10. Outpatients care.
11. Emergency services and referral to hospitals.
12. Oral hygiene services.
13. Rehabilitation of patients and assistance in helping them to return to a normal life.
14. Epidemiological and entomological surveillance and surveillance of zoonotic diseases.
15. Identification and classification of environmental risks.
16. Vaccination of domestic animals.
17. Control and/or elimination of insects and rodents.
18. Monitoring and control of water and food quality and of dangerous substances.
19. Monitoring and control of solid waste disposal.
20. Intra- and inter-sectoral coordination.
21. Evaluation and safeguarding of quality.
22. Record-keeping.
23. Strategic local planning.
24. Health research.
Integrated network of health care facilities and services. An integrated network of facilities and services
would allow wider coverage and increased diagnosis and treatment capability, with a referral and counter-
referral system to ensure that individuals receive more complex medical care, if needed, to address their health
problems. To this end, the project would support:
*  Expansion of diagnosis and treatment capacity in ambulatory facilities offering services 12 hours a day.
*  Integration of the VSSI Type III ambulatory facilities with the rest of the area network, taking into account
that they already have the physical infrastructure, equipment, geographical location and specialized medical
services that the public network lacks. Such integration would make it possible to increase specialized
medical care coverage through an appropriate system of referrals and counter-referrals and to expand
emergency outpatient services to 24 hours a day, with specialists on duty.
*  Establishment of mechanisms for linking ambulatory facilities and hospitals through an effective referral
system.
*  Strengthening: (i) the METROEMERGENCIA Network, in order to guarantee efficient transportation of
patients in ambulances from one hospital to another, while at the same time extending its services to the
ambulatory facilities and to attend emergency calls, thereby avoiding cases in which patients are shunted
around at random; (ii) the INTERHOSPITAL RADIO Network, to enable it to expand coverage to
ambulatory facilities, hospitals' outpatient care facilities, and other hospitals on the outskirts of the wider
area now covered by the MDC (the Tuy, Barlovento, and Altos Mirandinos valleys); (iii) the medical
supplies system, to ensure the timely delivery of medical and surgical supplies and specific medicines for
certain diseases, as the shortage and cost of such supplies affect the quality of care; and (iv) SUMED
Program, to guarantees the distribution low-cost generic medicines for the general public.



36
Investments under the Project. To the above ends, the project will finance under subprojects in each
participating locality rehabilitation and/or construction of physical infrastructure; medical and laboratory
equipment; communication systems and ambulances for patient referral and emergency care; training of health
personnel, including the proper handling and disposal of medical waste; information, education and
communication activities; and technical assistance for the improvement of supply systems, and development
of maintenance systems for physical infrastructure and equipment.
Component #2: Institutional Development-US$6.84 million
To ensure the virtual integration of health facilities into networks and efficient and effective delivery of the
comprehensive health care program, the project would support under this component the institutional
modernization of health networks by:
*  Implementing new resource allocation mechanisms developed under the ongoing Health Services
Reform Project to promote allocative and technical efficiency;
*  developing accounting, budgeting, contracting, billing and collection systems, including cost recovery
from financial intermediaries;
*  developing managerial protocols for strategic planning, human resources development and
management, supplies and installations; and clinical protocols to support performnance improvement,
quality assurance, revision and updating of the existing norms and guidelines for the handling and
disposal of medical waste in health care, and measurement of outcomes and user satisfaction, and
management and continued education programs;
*  developing management information systems to provide managers at different levels with online
information for program management, monitoring and evaluation; and
*  reengineering processes, including the development of minimum accreditation standards, procedures
and services in ambulatory and type II hospital networks; staff certification, qualification
requirements, competencies and productivity benchmarks; requirements and specifications for
physical infrastructure, equipment, and supplies to guide project investments.
The project would finance under subprojects in each participating locality technical assistance and systems
development to modernize health care organization and management structures and practices, including
management information, health care financing and quality assurance systems, and human resources
development.
Component #3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control in the
MDC-US$2.7 million
In Venezuela, according to recent estimates, the transmission of HIV/AIDS is increasing among young people
and women. The main mode is transmission is unprotected sexual contact between men and women. About
1% of the adult population is infected with HIV/AIDS. '
HIV/AIDS prevention requires coordinated actions with different sectors, including health, and civil society.
Under this component (see Annex 2-B), the project would finance technical assistance and other support for:
*  Formulation of a multi-sectoral regional strategic plan for HIV/AIDS prevention and control, and Actions
Plans in the MDC;
El VIH/SIDA en Venezuela. Analisis de situaci6n y recomendaciones. Centro de Investigaciones Econ6micas y Sociales (CIES).
ONUSIDA. Venezuela 1998



37
*  design of information, education, and communication (IEC) activities to reduce HIV transmission, with
emphasis on high-risk groups, by raising awareness and understanding about HIV/AIDS and STIs,
promote behavioral changes to avoid the spread of HIV; seeking voluntary testing and counseling; and
reducing stigmatization of HfV infected persons;
*  strengthening of the MSDS' surveillance system to increase the knowledge of the health situation in
general, and of the HIV/AIDS/STI situation in particular, to improve decision-making and resource
allocation. Priority would be given to the development and implementation of a second generation HIV
surveillance system according to UNAIDS and WHO recommendations. Specifically the project would
support: the development of standardized protocols for undertaking cross-sectional surveys of behavior,
including collection of data on site and population characteristics, focusing on high-risk groups and in the
general population; sentinel FHV sero-surveillance among pregnant women, urban and rural, focusing on
younger age groups; and surveillance of TB and other HIV/AIDS related illnesses;
e  development of an information system for the control and follow up of FHV/AIDS patients;
*  training of health personnel; and
*  equipping of two FJV/AIDS diagnostic centers.
The project would finance under this component technical assistance, equipment, training and workshops.
Component #4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models in the MDC--
US$.800
The project would finance technical assistance and activities to support health sector reform efforts at the
MDC. Assistance would cover issues that might affect the health services network modernization objectives
in the MDC, and those that could facilitate the definition of new institutional roles at the different levels of the
health system in accordance with the policy guidelines set by the MSDS. More specifically, it would cover:
(i) development of a legal framework to support greater autonomy of district and municipal health directorates
and service providers, including the redefinition of the relationship between the MSDS, the VSSI, local
governments, and services providers, with respect to key decisions (e.g., capital investments, procurement of
goods and services, budgetary control, and personnel management); (ii) development of new decentralized
governance models such as Corporations, allowing local authorities and communities to share greater
responsibility for the management of the ambulatory care and hospital networks; (iii) adjustment of existing
norms and regulations governing health organization and managerial arrangements; (iv) developing and
processing the approval of legal instruments for establishing decentralized and autonomous health care
organizational arrangements; (v) design of new policies and mechanisms for managing human resources, and
reforms to existing labor laws; (vi) assessments and development of proposals for reformning the supply of
drugs and other medical supplies; and (vii) design of instruments to help operationalize new health reform
legislation, including the general health and social security reforn laws.
Component #5: Project Administration and Evaluation-US$5.54 million
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision and impact evaluation at the
different levels of the system, including conducting baseline, mid-term, and impact evaluation, and assessment
of yearly budgetary allocations by Government to support and sustain the scaling up of programs at the MDC.
Project monitoring and evaluation will rely on three sources of data: (i) administrative data, from the
information systems used by health services providers to report on their production; (ii) annual household
survey data for the same variables in an effort to verify any trends observed through administrative data, and
to ensure that the benefits of the project are reaching the poor; and (iii) user satisfaction surveys.



38
Monitoring and evaluation will be a central activity of the project, and will be incorporated into project
planning through the use of Performance Contracts (Compromisos de Gestion) to be entered annually between
the MSDS and the MDC on one side and each of the participating Municipalities on the other. The
performance contracts will specify the yearly targets for each Municipality for each of the performance
indicators described in Annex 1.



39
Annex 2-B: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Activities
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Subcomponentes: Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n
Medios de
Actividades      Supuestos         Acciones            Indicadores          Verificaci6n    Observaciones
1. Diseflo y      Participaci6n    Contrataci6n    No. de regiones con Planes
elaboraci6n de    multisectorial a  asesoria nacional,  Operativos incluidos dentro Planes operativos
planes operativos nivel regional y  Talleres regionales de los planes de desarrollo  estandarizados
regionales      local           de formulaci6n del en el nivel de          sobre una matriz
Plan             gobemaciones, alcaldias y   (adecuaci6n)
municipios
Sustentabilidad   Talleres regionales  Mayor nuimero de acciones Plan estrategico
econ6mica del   de motivaci6n y    de prevenci6n que de   Regional
plan por el     formulaci6n del    asistencia, priorizacion de  Elaborado,Talleres
Estado          plan              las estrategias y acciones   realizados
ambulatorias
. En el marco del  Garantizar    Talleres de       No.de personas           Hojas de          Complementado
Modelo de       tratamiento.    capacitaci6n.     capacitadas,  No.        evaluaciones antes  al Plan Nacional
Atenci6n        Terapia         Reproduccion de   Materiales reproducidos,   y despues       de Capacitaci6n
Integral: Plan de  preempacada  materiales        No. establecimientos     capacitaci6n,     del MAI
capacitaci6n en   Condones      educativos        ambulatorios que
Manejo          Laboratorios de                   incorporan manejo
sindr6mico y    referencia                        sindr6mico. No. de
formaci6n       Servicios de                      sindromes identificados y
especifica en VIH  atenci6n ITS en                tratados.
- SIDA al equipo  ambulatorios,
de salud de los    personal para
centros         consejeria
ambulatorios del  Monitoreo y
area            evaluaci6n
metropolitana.  ...
Subcomponentes: Informaci6n, Educaci6n y Comunicaci6n (IEC)
Actividades      Supuestos         Acciones           Indicadores            Medios de
Verificacion    Observaciones
) Diseflo e      Contrataci6n de  Contrataci6n del   Publicaciones impresas.    Materiales
impresi6n de    Artes Finales    diseflo grAfico de   Aumento de conocimiento  impresos.
materiales                      las publicaciones.  sobre el tema por parte de
educativos en                   Reproducci6n de   la poblaci6n
VIH-SIDA                         materiales.
Distribuci6n de
materiales
) Programa Piloto  Participaci6n de  Ubicaci6n de   No. de locales o        Notas de entregas
de IEC de       los             dispensadores de   establecimientos con    de condones a
implementacion   establecimientos  condones en los    condones disponibles  establecimientos
de estrategia   trabajadoras    establecimientos
100% condones.  sexuales,
establecimientos
gay, en el area
metropolitana



40
Subcompornente: Vigilancia Epidemiol6gica
Actividades      Supuestos                                                   Medios de
Acciones           Indicadores           Verificaci6n    Observaciones
Estudio de       Voluntad de los  Asesoria para la    Farmacias distribuyendo el Registros de
Factibilidad para  entes         realizaci6n del   medicamento             salidas de
la creaci6n de   participantes   estudio de                                medicamentos
farmacias o      para la creaci6n  factibilidad
centros de       o consolidaci6n
recepci6n de los   de las farmacias
medicamentos,
que permitan
mayor acceso al
paciente con
VIH-SIDA
Creaci6n de Red   Registro de la    Adquisici6n de    Informaci6n 100%      Sistema de        Registro de la
automatizada     informaci6n     Hardware.         automatizada            informaci6n en    informaci6n
para el control de  adecuadamente   Adquisici6n de                          Funcionamiento    adecuadamente
los pacientes con                Software.
VIH-SIDA y la                    Capacitaci6n en el
distribuci6n de                  sistema
los medicamentos
Implementaci6n   Realizaci6n de   Contrataci6n     Determinaci6n deTasas de  Diagn6stico
de un proyecto de pruebas de     consultores.      prevalencia y tendencias   situacional.
vigilancia       detecci6n VIH    Talleres de      en Embarazadas y        Retroalimentaci6n
centinela de     en prenatal e   formaci6n lIderes,  pacientes ITS. No.y   de la informaci6n
segunda         implementaci6n  recolecci6n y      cantidad de boletines   al equipo de salud
generaci6n en    del programa de  analisis de     reproducidos,Estudios de   a traves de un
embarazadas y    manej o         informaci6n.     investigaci6n presentados.  boletin
pacientes con ITS  sincr6nico en    producci6n de                           epidemiol6gico y
en 3 centros     centros         boletines de                              el Website MSDS.
ambulatorios del  ambulatorios.   informaci6n                              ONG's y
area                                                                       poblaci6n general
metropolitana.
Equipamiento de  Disposici6n de   Adquisici6n de   Pruebas de Elisa realizadas Registros de
dos centros      establecimientos  dos citometros de                       pruebas realizadas
diagn6sticos de   para la       flujoI
VIH-SIDA         incorporaci6n de Capacitaci6n de
este servicio   los equipos.



41
Annex 2-C: Legal Framework
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
This annex contains an overview of the legal framework of the health system and for decentralization of
health services as required for implementation of the health care networks in the territorial jurisdiction of the
MDC in particular: (i) the new Constitutional provisions related to the health system; (ii) the Constitutional
provisions and relevant provisions of the health, municipalities and decentralization laws that provide the
framework for the assignment of responsibilities for health care to the National, State and Municipal
Governments and for communities' participation; and (iii) the law establishing the new MDC.
1. Constitutional Provisions Related to the Health System
The Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (the Constitution) was enacted in 1999 following its
approval by national referendum.
Health is, pursuant to the Constitution, a fundamental social right, and it is the obligation of the State to
guarantee such right as a part of the right to life. The State's obligation extends to the promotion and
development of policies to improve the quality of life and the access to services, while the obligations of the
citizens in relation to health are to participate in the promotion of health and to comply with the public health
laws and requirements.2
Pursuant to article 84 of the Constitution, the health system to be established by the State has the following
characteristics: public, intersectoral, decentralized and participatory, integrated into the social security system
and ruled by principles of gratuity, universality, equity, integrality, social integration and solidarity. Both the
assets and the services are to be owned by the State and cannot be privatized. Community participation in the
planning, execution and control of health policies of public institutions is both a right and an obligation3.
In order to apply the new principles of the Constitution substantial reforms of existing laws will be needed in
particular to set forth:
*  the public (as opposed to private) nature of the system, the position which prevailed over others presented
in the Constitutional Assembly in support of more space for privatization4;
*  the unitary nature of the provision of services, eliminating the current duality of the health services
provided by the social security system and that of the Ministry of Health, organized under their respective
organic laws;
*  the decentralized nature of the provision of services which even though contemplated and in process of
implementation under a decentralization law, had been implemented under the framework of a
"centralized" organic health law; and
*  the participatory nature of the service.
Other constitutional provisions relevant to health are those relating to: (i) the social security system, a non-
profit public service, which should guarantee the health of the population and provide security for
contingencies such as maternity, disease, disabilities, catastrophic illness, etc.5; (ii) the promotion of sports
2      Constitution, Art. 83
3      Ibid, Art. 84.
4      El derecho a la salud en el desarrollo politico de la Asamblea Nacional Constituyente de 1999 by Pasqualina
Curcio, draft submitted to the Bank mission on December 2000.
5      Constitution, Art. 86.



42
and recreation as part of public health;6 (iii) traditional medicine and complementary therapies of indigenous
peoples according with their cultures and practices subject to bioethics principles'; (iv) the obligations to
finance the health sector, through fiscal revenues and social security contributions, among others8; (v) the
State's obligation to allocate revenues from the exploitation of subsoil resources and minerals9 to finance the
health sector; and (vi) the powers and responsibilities of the State at the National and regional (State) level,
the municipalities and the communities in the policy making and delivery of health services further described
below.
2. Decentralization and Participation in Health Care Services
a) Constitutional Provisions Related to National, State and Municipal Powers
Pursuant to the Constitution, it is within the exclusive powers and responsibilities of: (i) the National Power
to set the national policies and legislation relating to public health and health services'1; (ii) the State Power,
the creation and organization of state public services' ; and (iii) the municipalities, the sanitation (salubridad)
and primary health care of its population'2.
The competencies concurrently assigned to the Federal and State Governments will be regulated by national
laws and State development laws. The principles applicable to such legislation are of interdependence,
coordination, cooperation and subsidiarity.13
b) Constitutional Provisions Related to Decentralization
The Constitution requires that the national decentralization policy be a "means to deepen democracy", setting
power "closer to the people" and creating better conditions for delivery of services.
Pursuant to the Constitution:  (i) a law  should define what and how to decentralize the concurring
competencies of the State and National Powers, (which are those competencies not specified as exclusive to
each of them); and (ii) the States are authorized to transfer (when warranted by the capacities of the
Municipalities concerned) services and competencies to the Municipalities as requested by them and in
accordance with State laws.14  Other references of decentralization in the Constitution provide for the
Republic as a federal decentralized  state'5 and the government as democratic, participatory and
decentralized.16
c) Constitutional Provisions Related to Community Participation
The Constitution requires that a law create open and flexible mechanisms for the State and Municipalities to
decentralize and transfer to the communities and organized groups of citizens (grupos vecinales) the services,
requested by them, as warranted by their capacities. Such law should:
* Promote the transfer of, among others, health services through decentralization agreements;
6      Ibid, Art. 111.
7      Ibid, Art. 122.
8      Ibid, Art. 85.
9      Ibid, Art. 311, [third] paragraph.
'°    Ibid, Art. 156 (23) and (24).
1     fIbid, Art. 164 (8).
12    Ibid, Art. 178 (5).
13    Ibid, Art. 165, first paragraph.
14    Ibid, Art. 165.
15    Ibid, Art. 4.
16    Ibid, Art. 6.



43
* the participation, through associations and NGOs, of the communities and citizens in the formulation of
investment proposals for consideration by the State and Municipalities as well as in their execution,
supervision and control;
* the creation of communal enterprises for. the delivery of services, the creation of new decentralization
entities at the "parroquia" level;
* the participation in the economic processes through cooperatives, savings and other organizations;
* the development of co-management or self-management schemes for such entities to provide public
services; and
* the creation of community organizations, cooperatives and enterprises for the delivery of services as
employment generation and social welfare schemes.
A new law, or a chapter of the health law, needs to be prepared to set forth the above referred participation
scheme for the delivery of health services.
d) Health and Decentralization Laws
The Organic Law of Health of 1998, (the Health Law)'7, the Organic Law for Decentralization, Delimitation
and Transfer of Competencies of the Public Power of 1999, (the Decentralization Law)18 and the Organic Law
of Municipalities of 198919 (the Municipalities Law) and their respective regulations are the main pieces of
legislation  relevant to  intergovernmental decentralization  under the  Projece0.   Other forms of
decentralizations are described at the end of this section.
Health Law. The 1998 Health Law entered into effect upon its publication in the Gazette on November 1998
but was not fully implemented by the Chavez's administration that took power shortly thereafter. Strong
opposition from trade unions and other health sector stakeholders stalled the implementation. The 1998 law
repealed the Health Organic Law of 1938 and the Health National System Organic Law of 1987 which were
of a rather centralized nature. The 1998 Law provides for decentralization of services to: (i) the States and
the Federal District21; and (ii) at a different level, the municipalities, leaving in the National Govemment
regulatory and planning functions.22
Prior to enactment of the Health Law the government had pursued decentralization of its services under the
Decentralization Law and its regulations. A National Commission has been set up to prepare a new draft
Health Law which would reaffirm decentralization and community participation as required by the
Constitution and address the reorganization of the Ministry of Health, as required to fulfill its new role.23 The
draft law is expected to be presented to the National Assembly in the forthcoming months.
Decentralization Law.  The 1990 Decentralization Law  deals with intergovernmental transfers of
competencies or responsibilities between autonomous levels of Governments such as the National
Government, the States and the Municipalities, and sets forth that the services, which are assigned
17    Published in the Gaceta Oficial on September 17, 1998.
18    Published in the Gaceta Oficial on January 1, 1990.
19    Published in the Gaceta Oficial (Extraordinary) on June 15, 1989.
20 The environmental laws are not part of this annex and are described in Section [] of the PAD.
21     Health Law, footnote 15, Article 14.
22    Ibid, Art. 16 (Municipalities) and Art. 11 (Ministry of Health).
23     Documento de Trabajo Sobre la Ley de Salud, December 6, 2000 Draft.



44
concurrently to the governments without distinction of level, but have been retained by the National
Government, are to be gradually transferred to the States and the Federal District24.
Public health and nutrition services are among the specific services to be gradually transferred, and the
applicable requirements for the transfer are that they comply with the technical direction, administrative
norms and coordination that the National Government may impose to ensure the delivery thereof25. The
intergovernmental, territorial and administrative decentralization of services can in turn be complemented by a
functional decentralization of services to an autonomous entity, as described in Other Forms of
Decentralization.
The decentralization of health services under the Decentralization Law consists of: (i) a transfer of assets and
personnel of the Ministry of Health and national autonomous entities to the States; and (ii) a transfer of the
financing required by the States for the delivery of the transferred services. It is implemented through an
agreement (convenio) at the request of the respective State or the National Government, and in both cases the
approval of the Legislature is required.26 The National Government is authorized to re-assume the services
with the Senate's approval, and the Governor is also authorized to "return" the services to the National
Government with the prior approval of the State Legislature.27 The conditions under which this right could be
exercised are not spelled out. Transfers could be both to the States and the Federal District.28
Municipalities Law. The Constitution and the Municipalities Law consider the municipalities as primary and
autonomous units of the National Government.29  The Municipal regime includes: (i) Municipalities; (ii)
Metropolitan districts; (iii) Parroquias, mancomunidades, and other municipal associative or decentralized
agencies with juridical personality.
The provision of health care services is not included in the exclusive competencies of the Municipalities but
the law requires the municipalities to cooperate "in preventive, curative or rehabilitating health care,
emergency care, public health information and education, family planning and epidemiological control,
following the policies set by the National Government"30 and in the control of the sanitary conditions of foods,
shops, etc.31
The Municipalities are required to engage citizens' participation in the design and execution of their functions.
Decentralization Convenios. Prior to the enactment of the new Constitution and the MDC Law, the Ministry
of Health signed decentralization agreements with: (i) the State of Miranda that has jurisdiction over the
health services provided in the municipalities of Chacao, Sucre, Hatillo, and Baruta now in MDC32 (the
Miranda Convenio); and (ii) the old Federal District, now municipality of Libertador and heir to the assets
thereof 33 (the FD Convenio). Each of the municipalities in their own capacity also has powers to cooperate in
the delivery and control of primary health care and sanitation.34
The FD Convenio and Miranda Convenio have similar provisions for the transfer of responsibilities based
substantially on the regulations to the Decentralization Law dealing with the transfer of public health
24     Decentralization Law, see footnote 16 Art. 4.
25    Ibid, Art. 4, paragraph 16.
26    Ibid, Articles 6 and 7.
27    Ibid, Art. 8.
28    Ibid, Art. 2.
29     Municipalities Law, see footnote 17, Art. 3.
30    Ibid, Art. 37 (2).
31    Ibid, Art. 37 (1).
32     Agreement entered into on October 25, 1995.
33     Agreement entered into on June 22, 1998.
34     Constitution, Art. 168 and Municipalities Law, Art. 37.



45
services.35  Such regulations call for the CONVENIOS to set forth: the respective responsibilities of the
National and State Governments, the personnel transfers, the budget allocations for implementation, the
required cooperatives with the municipalities involved. Under the FD and Miranda Convenios, the Ministry
of Health retains the normative, regulatory, supervisory functions, and consolidates the health budget at the
national level, while the States are to manage the health systems, including hospitals, the construction and
maintenance of infrastructure, human resource development, revenue capture and distribution for the
financing of the State system.36
The transfer of personnel and financing of the services to the State of Miranda and the Federal District has
already taken place.37 The assets, however, are in the process of being transferred, pending a legal assessment
on clear title to the facilities to be transferred and the land where they are located as well as other accounting
and valuation issues.
e) Decentralization of Services to Entities other than States or Municipalities
The establishment of autonomous agencies for the delivery of health services in the Metropolitan District of
Caracas and its municipalities will be supported by the Project. To that end the positive decentralization
experiences of CORPOARAGUA in the State of Aragua, INSALUD in the State of Carabobo and
PROSALUD in the State of Yaracuy will be disseminated to the concerned municipalities.
The specific competencies or functions of the National, State or Municipal Government (such as health care
services) can be decentralized to public agencies or entities autonomous or semi-autonomous from the
governmental authority with the power or duty to deliver them (National Govemment/States/Municipalities).
The Venezuelan legislative framework allows for the establishment, through legislative or administrative
mechanisms, of agencies and entities of varying degrees of autonomy. Box 1 contains an illustrative and not
exhaustive list of decentralized agencies that could be created ranging from the health services directorates as
the less autonomous, to health corporations as the most autonomous of the range.38
35     Partial Regulations No. 9 to the Organic Law of Decentralization, Delimitation and Transfer of Competencies
on the Transfer of Public Health Services, Decree No. 3324 of January 7, 1994 published in the Gaceta Oficial
in January 1994.
36    Ibid, Articles 4 and 5 and the FD Convenio.
37    Information drawn from a chart on Status of decentralization of health services provided by the Decentralization
Office of the Ministry of Health on December 6, 2000.
38    Information drawn from a Chart provided by the Ministry of Health on December 2000.



46
BOX I
Agency                      Leual Requirements                           Features
Regional            No separate juridical personality. Established by  Deconcentration of powers to
Directorate         a legal instrument of the National State or  Regional Office.
Municipal Government (resolution).
Autonomous          No separate juridical personality. Established by  Delegation of functions to a
Service             a legal instrument of the National State or  subordinate agency, all part of
Municipal Government (resolution).             the same administrative
structure.
Autonomous          A'With autonomous public juridical personality  It is part of the public
Institute           established by National State or Municipal Law.   administration, with its own
assets and management
structure set by the law of
creation.
State Foundations    - Functionally decentralized agency with private  Non-profit organization that
law juridical personality.                   functions according to the by-
laws of creation. 50%
-  Established by an administrative Act of the  participation ofthe Public,
National, State or Municipal Government.     State or Municipal
Government.
- Operates under the provisions of Decree Law
6777 of June 21, 1985: norms for the operation
of Foundations, Civil Associations, Civil
Societies and for the control of the financial
support to similar private institutions.
Civil  Associations  - Functionally decentralized agency with private  50% or more public
of the State          law juridical personality.                    participation.
- Established by an administrative Act of the
National, State or Municipal Government.
- Operates under the provisions of Decree Law
6777 of June 21, 1985: norms for the operation
of Foundations, Civil Associations, Civil
Societies and for the control of the financial
support to similar private institutions.
Corporations        Functionally decentralized agency with private  Association of persons as
law juridical personality.                      members of a group for the
exercise of the same activity,
Established: (i) in accordance with the respective profession, etc.
corporations laws (National, State or Municipal);
and (ii) through an Administrative Act of the  Non-profit.
National. State or Municipal Government.
To support a collective
interest.



47
As discussed in 3 and 4 below, the situation of the MDC as an entity different than the National, State or
Municipal Governments in the same jurisdiction poses an additional legal challenge for the consolidation of
the decentralization process and the project will support under Component 4 the development of the legal
and/ or administrative arrangements that might be required to set forth the delineation of responsibilities
agreed to between the parties until the new health law is enacted and brings more certainty to the situation.
3. Metropolitan District of Caracas (MDC)
The Constitution sets forth that, the city of Caracas is the Capital of the Republic and that, through a law, a
new political and territorial division of the State should be established with a two-level municipal Government
for the Municipalities of the Capital District and those of the State of Miranda. Such law is to set forth the
organization, Government, administration, competencies and resources required for the development of the
city of Caracas, in a democratic and participatory approach.
The Constitutional Assembly (in the exercise of legislative powers until the new Assembly was established)
enacted in January 2000, the Special Law for the Regime of the Caracas Metropolitan District39 (MDC Law).
This Law created the MDC as a political and territorial unit with juridical personality and autonomy
comprising the city of Caracas. The boundaries of the MDC are set as follows: by the Municipality of
Libertador in the Capital District (successor to the Federal District) and the Municipalities of Sucre, Baruta,
Chacao and El Hatillo of the State of Miranda.
The political and territorial structure of the MDC is, within the political/territorial organization of the State,
innovative and complex. It is organized as a two level municipality, and includes within its territorial
jurisdiction: (i) one municipality (Libertador) deemed in the Law a successor to the Federal District, which
had the rank (but not the political autonomy) of a State for purposes of the decentralization law; and (ii) four
municipalities of the State of Miranda, whose territorial integrity is specifically respected.40
The two-level municipal government is composed of: (i) an executive and legislative body each at the
Metropolitan and Municipal levels (the Metropolitan Mayor and the Metropolitan Council (cabildo
metropolitano) at the Metropolitan level and the respective mayors and councils (Consejo Municipal) of the
municipalities at the municipal level; and (ii) a governmental council (Consejo de Gobierno) of an advisory
and consultative nature and composed of the mayors of all the municipalities.41
Pursuant to the MDC Law, the competencies of MDC are those set forth for Municipalities in the Constitution
and in relation to health, the power "to promote and coordinate, jointly with the municipalities of the Capital
District, the development of actions to guarantee public health within the framework of national health
policies".42 The assets and rights of the Federal District (including on-going works) are transferred to MDC.43
There are no specific provisions relating to the delivery of public health services equivalent to those of a State.
The MDC Law sets forth also that the National Assembly was authorized to grant MDC with other
competencies aimed to support political and administrative decentralization.44 The revision of the powers and
competencies of MDC is on going and a proposal for its amendment is already in Congress. Likewise, the
Judicial Power is ruling on competencies and revenue sharing of MDC vis-a-vis States and Municipalities.45
39     Published in the Gaceta Oficial on March 8, 2000.
40    Ibid, Art. 2.
41    Ibid, Articles 8 through 11.
42    Ibid, Art. 19 (9). Other powers of MDC are related to police, urban transit, credit institutions, etc.
43    Ibid, Art. 20.
44     Ibid, Art. 32. Art. 157 of the Constitution has similar provisions for the Assembly to grant competencies to
Municipalities and States.
45     [On December 2000, the Supreme Court ruled that Police would be within the powers of the MDC.]



48
From the creation of the MDC, with overlapping jurisdiction with the State of Miranda, currently there is
uncertainty as to:
*  What are the specific health related powers that MDC has inherited from the Federal District which under
the terms of the FD Convenio is already providing services in a decentralized manner as if it were a State;
*  what are the specific health functions that MDC could have in relation to all the municipalities in general,
and most controversial the municipalities in overlapping jurisdiction of the MDC and the State of
Miranda, in particular; and
*  what are the powers, if any, that the State of Miranda will need to assign in view of the creation of the
MDC and the overall powers it has over the four municipalities of the MDC included in the State of
Miranda.
To address these uncertainties the parties involved are reviewing the legal and administrative arrangements
that they could agree to and pursue in order to set forth their respective powers and responsibilities until a new
law is enacted, and to jointly manage and deliver health services.
4. Institutional Arran2-ements for Proiect ImDlementation
Under the proposed project, pending the definition of the roles of the MHSD, the MDC, the State of Miranda
and the Municipalities of Libertador, Sucre, Chacao, Hatillo and Baruta, the legal requirements of the Project
include:
*  An umbrella participation agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Development, MDC, the
State of Miranda and the five Municipalities whereby, the parties will agree to participate in the carrying
out of the proposed project as designed and following the requirements of the operational manual for
management and operation of the health care networks; and
*  a subproject implementation agreement for each of the network strengthening and institutional
development subprojects that the loan would finance, between MDHC on the one hand and the MDC, the
State of Miranda (if applicable), and the concerned Municipalities on the other hands to set forth the
respective responsibilities in the implementation of the respective subproject, including inter alia: (i) that
the Ministry of Health and Social Development will manage all procurement and disbursements under the
Project; (ii) that the MDC/State of Miranda will cooperate in the procurement process, and coordinate and
supervise the subprojects as required in the operational manual, and (iii) the delivery and performance
indicators related to the network that may be applicable. Box 2 summarizes the content of such
agreement.
The umbrella participation agreement would be signed as a condition of effectiveness and each of the
subproject implementation agreements would be signed as a condition of disbursement of the loan proceeds
allocated for the financing of goods, works and services of the respective subproject.
* The legal and institutional changes will be yearly monitored and any necessary changes assessed at the
mid-term review.



49
BOX 2
Subproject Implementation Agreement
Ministry of Health and Social Development (MHSD)/
MDC/ concerned Municipalities / State of Miranda
- MHSD responsible for procurement,    - MDC/MIRANDA MUNICIPALITIES
financial management, and disbursement    obligation to establish a decentralized
for the Project.                       autonomous health service agency and a civil
participation scheme.
- MDC/Miranda/ Municipalities operate and
maintain the networks to deliver the
required health services under a specific
subproject and to comply with the related
performance indicators.
- MDC/Municipalities/ State of Miranda if
applicable to prepare feasibility studies,
TORs as required for specific subprojects.
- MDC/State of Miranda to coordinate,
evaluate and supervise the networks and
specific subprojects to be carried out by
the Municipalities.
- MHSD to transfer personnel, assets and
financing as required to operate selected
networks.



50
Annex 2-D: Management of Medical Waste Produced in Health Facilities in the Caracas Metropolitan
Area
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
The medical waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic. This
annex assesses medical waste handling and disposal procedures, and proposes a number of measures to
improve the management of medical waste produced in health facilities in the MDC.
A. Risks of Inadequate Management of Potentially Hazardous Waste Produced by Health Facilities
About 10-20% of the waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or
toxic, posing health risks to staff who handle waste in health facilities and to urban waste collection operators
and scavengers in landfills. Such waste also causes environmental pollution and a high risk to national public
health. Among the infectious diseases that may be spread by medical waste are hepatitis, HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis, cholera, cellulites, staphylococcemia, meningitis, amoebiasis, and others. Other diseases may be
caused by radiation and toxicity due to metals such as mercury, lead and cadmium.
In light of the above, it is important to know the amount of total waste, in particular potentially hazardous
waste, produced in health facilities. In Central America, for example, 14 million kg of waste are produced
each year in the region's hospitals. In Honduras, each hospital bed generates 4.21 kg of waste each day, of
which 1.43 kg are hazardous. In Central America, 40% of this waste is hazardous, much higher than the rate
in the United States that is only 15%. The "Waste Management Plan in Health Facilities of the Caracas
Metropolitan Area," prepared by the MSDS and Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO)/WHO in 1997,
estimates that for each hospital bed in the area, 5.95 kg of waste are generated per day, 1.19 kg of which is
potentially hazardous.
Hospitalized patients also run the risk of contracting intra-hospital illness due to poor sanitation practices in
hospitals; between 10% and 15% of patients contract other infections during their stays. However, hospital
staff is the ones at highest risk of infection by handling medical waste, especially if done improperly.
According to available data, in the United States each year 64 health workers contract HIV and 12,000
contract different types of hepatitis from contact with medical waste, especially contaminated needles and
surgical equipment. Of these, 250 die.
A report by the Sao Paulo Association of Studies on the Control of Intra-Hospital Infections in Brazil
indicates the alarming figure of 70,000 cases of work-related accidents per year in that country, due to
improper handling of hazardous hospital waste. Other data show that 18% of hospital workers become ill
from sharp/pointed objects, 18% contract illnesses from handling trash containers, and 14% from needle
pricks. Of these, 27% are nursing staff and 20% are janitorial staff. A study carried out in Mexico estimated
the risk of injuries caused by hazardous waste among different occupational categories: janitorial staff 35%,
nursing staff 27%, medical students 20%, medical residents 7%, surgeons 4%, laboratory technicians 3%,
anesthesiologists 2%, and gardeners 2%.
B. Regulations Governing the Management of Medical Waste in Venezuela
The following legal framework regulates the management of medical waste in the health facilities of the
MDC.



51
The Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Art. 83: ... "All persons have the right to health protection, as well as the duty to participate actively in health
promotion and defense, and to comply with health and sanitation measures stipulated by law, in accordance
with international treaties and agreements signed and ratified by the Republic".
Art 84:... "The public health system shall give priority to health promotion and disease prevention..."
Organic Law of the National Health System
Art. 22: "The Environmental Sanitation Subsystem shall consist of a set of functions and activities aimed at
improving the human environment by means of eliminating or controlling disease-causing agents... in order
to make it healthier and more pleasant and adequate so that it does not affect health, in coordination with the
Ministry of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources and other public or private entities dealing with
the environment, safeguarding stipulations of the Organic Law of Prevention, Conditions and Work
Environment."
Presidential Decree 2.218 published in official Gazette 4418 dated April 27, 1994: "Regulations for
Waste Classification and Management in Health Facilities".
Art. 1: "The objective of the present Decree is to establish the conditions under which waste generated in
facilities related to the human or animal health sector should be managed, for the purpose of preventing
microbial contamination and infection in users, workers and the public, as well as environmental
contamination".
Art 5: "Waste generated in health facilities, for purposes of the present decree, is classified as":
Common Waste (Type A): Common waste is considered to be that whose basic components are:
paper, cardboard, plastic, food residue, glass, trash components generated in administrative areas,
general cleaning, food preparation, warehouses and workshops, provided they have not been in
contact with waste classified as B, C, D and E.
Potentially hazardous waste (Type B): Potentially hazardous waste is considered to be those
materials, which although not hazardous by nature, due to their location, contact or any other
circumstance may be contaminated, including waste from inpatient and outpatient care.
Infectious waste (Type C): This is all waste which, by nature, location, exposure, contact or any
other circumstance, may potentially contain infectious agents, from water, areas of seclusion and/or
treatment of infected-contagious patients, from biological activities, from operating rooms, delivery
rooms, obstetric wards or the rooms of corresponding patients, emergency care departments,
hemodialysis services, blood banks, laboratories, research institutes, morgues, pathology departments,
autopsy rooms, and any area that may generate infectious waste.
Organic and/or biological waste (Type D): This includes all parts or portions extracted and/or
originating from human beings and animals, living and/or dead, as well as the containers that hold
them.
Special waste (Type E): These are pharnaceutical or chemical products and residues, radioactive
materials, flammable liquids, as well as any others catalogued as hazardous but not included in the
previous groups. Such waste will be managed separately and be regulated by provisions in the
Regulations for the Control of Hazardous Waste Generation and Management.



52
Art. 33: "All public or private health establishments whose size and type so require, in the judgment of the
relevant health authority, should have an Office of Sanitation and Maintenance, under the responsibility of a
specialized professional with the necessary authority to fully comply with these Regulations."
Art. 34: "The Office of Sanitation and Maintenance should implement directed, controlled training programs
for waste management, including:
a) In-service training for all staff in health establishment, so that they may acquire information and criteria to
ensure the safe, rational management of waste;
b) sanitation, maintenance, cleaning and disinfection programs to ensure asepsis conditions in equipment,
installations, auxiliary elements and places used in waste management; and
c) programs for operation and maintenance of installations and equipment such as incinerators, refrigeration
systems, sterilizers, steam systems, boilers, auxiliary electrical plants, and others."
Other Legal Provisions That Regulate Solid Waste
Other legal provisions that regulate the management of solid waste produced in health institutions include the
following:
* Penal Law on the Environment;
* Organic Law of Decentralization, delimitation and transfer of duties of public authority;
* Partial reform of the Organic Law of the Municipal Regime;
* Decree 638: Regulations on water quality and air pollution control;
• Regulations for the establishment of requirements for infrastructure and medical equipment;
* Regulations for hospitals, health posts, sanatoriums, infirmaries, and similar places; and
* Venezuelan regulation COVENIN 2339: clinics, polyclinics, institutes or private hospitals classification.
C. The Current Management of Medical Waste in Health Facilities in the Metropolitan District of
Caracas
In the MDC, no reliable technical procedures are currently used in the management of medical waste in health
facilities for the following reasons:
* Regulations governing waste handling are unknown by medical, nursing, and maintenance staff and by
other staff who handle waste;
* health institutions' infrastructure is inadequate with regard to internal means of transferring waste such as:
elevators, freight elevators, and specific elevators for potentially hazardous waste. Likewise, there is a
lack of appropriate internal transfer vehicles, and waste is transferred in plastic bags to open-air containers
without any protection;
* there is a lack of proper, isolated, and protected places for disposal of potentially hazardous waste until
collected by urban waste collection operators;
* most incineration units are obsolete or not working;



53
* there is a lack of classification and separation of different types of waste, which leads to their being mixed
with waste that may be considered potentially hazardous;
* there is a lack of training of staff in places where waste is produced and of staff who handle it internally,
until its final disposal within the health facility, prior to collection by the city waste collection operator;
and
*  waste is improperly handled by urban waste collection operators, with final disposal in the open or in
common dumps where potentially hazardous or toxic waste is mixed with common waste, causing risks to
trash scavengers, public health in general and the environment.
The current situation in the hospitals of the MDC is documented in the "Diagnosis of Waste Management in
Public Hospitals of the Capital Region," prepared by the Sanitation Engineering Service of the X
Environmental Sanitation Region of the MSDS. This study evaluated 23 public sector hospitals and showed
the following:
* Classification and separation of waste-not done in any center;
* primary storage of waste-9% done well, 65% fairly, and 26% poorly;
* internal transportation of waste-96% done fairly, and 4% done well; and
* final storage-4% done well, 61% fairly, and 35% poorly.
D. Conclusions and Recommendations
Conclusions
e Improper waste management leads to the production of work-related illnesses among health workers,
urban waste collection operators and scavengers in landfills. It also causes environmental pollution and
risks to public health in general;
• lack of knowledge about the legal regulation that governs the management and final disposal of medical
waste;
* equipment are insufficient and obsolete and the infrastructure is lacking for proper internal management
of medical waste;
* there is improper management by operators of urban waste collection;
* the final disposal of potentially hazardous waste is highly risky to public health; and
* a National Plan for the Comprehensive Management of the Handling of Medical Waste generated in
health facilities is lacking.
Recommendations
The proposed project would support: (i) an assessment of medical care waste handling and disposal in
ambulatory facilities of MIC; (ii) the revision and updating of the existing manuals for the handling and
disposal of medical waste in health facilities; and (iii) the training of health personnel associated with
programs and activities under the project in the application of these manuals to protect high-risk human
groups such as patients as well as health staff in the participating facilities.



54
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Estimated Project Costs (US$ million)
Project Cost by Component               Local        Foreign         Total
Component #1: Strengthening of Health Care        22.03         22.03          44.07
Networks
Component #2: Institutional Development            3.4           3.4            6.84
Component #3: Development of Strategies and        0.0           2.74           2.74
Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control in
the MDC
Component #4: Development of Legal and             .400          .400          .800
Organizational Instruments and Models in the MDC
Component #5: Project Administration and           4.14          1.40           5.54
Evaluation
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                30.0          30.0           60.0
Front-end fee                                                    .3             60.3
Financing Percentages                              50.0          50.0          100.0
Project Cost by Category                          Local        Foreign         Total
Works                                             10.14          10.1          20.28
Goods                                              9.96          9.96          19.92
Services                                           6.47          9.17          15.65
Operating Costs                                    3.42          .720           4.14
Front-end fee                                                   .300           .300
30.0          30.3           60.3



55
Annex 4: Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Executive Summary
This project is expected to directly benefit the population of five municipalities in Greater Caracas.
Approximately 85 percent of this population, of 1.7 million today and expected to reach 2.5 million by 2020,
is potential users of public health services. Of them 1.5 million are expected to become users of ambulatory
care facilities to be supported by this project. A comparison of the demand and supply of services suggests a
large unsatisfied gap, equivalent to 85% of the potential demand.
The project will generate direct and indirect project benefits. The former was estimated using expected years
of life, valued by the contribution of the active labor force to GDP. Indirect benefits were valued in terms of
the expected effect of the project by reducing the congestion of emergency rooms in existing hospitals of
Greater Caracas. To this end, indirect benefits estimate the savings estimated by the differential cost between
ambulatory care and similar care in hospital emergency care facilities.
The cost benefit analysis suggests a high return to the proposed investment. The cost per Daly, estimated over
ten years, was between US$0.88 and US$14. Net present value, estimated with a discount rate of 12% was
estimated as US$491.60,90. The estimated internal rate of return is over 66%, when the indirect benefits are
included. If only direct benefits are included (as is usually the case in comparable economic analysis of
projects), the internal rate of return is 15.8%. The distributive impact of the project was also estimated, by
measuring the share of benefits that would accrue to the poor --- over 50% of benefits are expected to reach
this group. Simulations indicate that the expected positive results of the project are robust to conservative
assumptions of project impact.
Detailed Description of Methodology and Results
Comparing demand and supply of ambulatory medical services
Comparing demand and supply of ambulatory medical services in the Caracas metropolitan district, reveals a
large disproportion in both, as a result of emphasis assigned to medicine focused on hospital care, in detriment
of ambulatory care, which provoked the over dimension of hospital emergencies and distortion of the model
for these facilities.
The disproportion between demand and supply of ambulatory medical services is so severe, that for the year
2000, the supply only covered 5% of demand of services generated by the population in the catchment area of
sanitary districts 3, 4, and 7. The following table shows these magnitudes:



56
ComParison between Demand and SnPPlY of ambucatory Care in SanitarY Districts Of Metropotitan Caracas. 2000 - 2020
XcNX 2                            005 (010                2E).5         2020
Demand                        1.197.60     1 .279.08    1 .365.277   1.456.345    1.552.403
s upply                         598.000      763.21       974.08      1.243.20     1.543.200
UnmetDemand                  599.600      515.866      391.197      213.145        9.203
Unmet Demand                 50,07       40,33        28,65         14,64         0,59
N    eOmand              _      1.740.701    1.944.97   2.173.092    2.428.025    2,713.178
Q  Supply                   702.000      895.950    1.143.484    1.459.408     1.826.616
Unmet Demand               1.038.701    1.049.023    1.029.608      968.617      850.562
% Unmet Demand                 47,26        39,76        31,19        21,40        10,23
Demand                     2.433.18A    2.764.478    3.137.074    3.555.471    4.024.647
supply                       355.500     453.71        579.074      739.05       943.247
nmetDemand                2.077.681    2.310.760    2.558.000    2.816.412    3.081.400
of ode Unmet Demand            85,39        83,59        81,54        79,21        76,56
. Demand                       1.300.596    1.377.989    1.457.794    1.539.911    1.624.146
t  Supply                       207.850      265.275      338.566      462.105      551.490
._  Unmet Demand               1.092.746    1.112.71     1.119.228    1.077.806    1.072.656
___ /O Unmet Demand                84,02       80,75        76,78         69,99        66,04
O   __Demand                    6.672.085    7.366.522    8.133.237    8.979.753    9.914.374
:Qi } Supply           1.322.600    1.688.009    2.154.380    2.779.591    3.465.781
t Demand              5.349.485    5.678.51     5.978.857    6.200.16     6.448.593
X    /o Unmet Demand             80,18        77,0q        73,51        69,05         65,04
_____Demand __________   3.429.623    3.903.454    4.390.176      4.881.670    5.367.187
.  __SUPPlY                  190.400      243.00(      310.14       395.830      505.190
.U nmet Demand                 3,239.223    3.660.45d    4.080.036    4.485.840    4.861.997
__ )/ Unmet Demand                 94,45       93,71        92,94         91,8'        90,59
Source: personal estimates
Cost Analysis
Project annual costs have been quantified and analyzed at market prices and economic prices: They were
classified in five categories and discriminated by sanitary district. The following is a summary of these costs
per category:
Investment Costs
Correspond to those expenditures incurred for installing the operative capacity of the project. They include:
civil works (rehabilitation), machinery and equipment. A summary of investment costs is presented according
to investment categories in bolivares (Bs) and US dollars (US$), both at market and economic prices. The rate
of exchange used was 708 Bs/US$ .oo



57
Summary of Required Project Investments
Amounts is Bs. at                   Amounts in US$ at
TOTAL INVESTMENTS    Market Prices    Etonomc ptices    Market p£ices    Economic Pries
Consultant services             9.037.350.25       8.543.007.021       12.764.619         12.066.394
Civil Works                    11.954.906.390     10.439.024.342       16.885.461         14.744.385
quipment                      8.190.103.644       7.365.360.132       11.567.943         10.403.051
ervices other than Consultants  5.195.347.188     4.491.897.316        7.338.061          6.344.488
OTAL                         34.377.707.474      30.839.288.811      48.556.04          43.558.318
Replacement Costs
These are the costs of investments needed to be replaced once consumed as a result of deterioration and
obsolescence during the project life. Twenty years are considered for estimated replacement costs of civil
works, and 10 years for equipment.
Operating Costs:
These are costs incurred for keeping the ambulatory services in operation   They are required to keep the
installed capacity that ensures service quality and effectiveness. They include staff expenditures (present and
new staff when required), consumables, medical supplies and public services.
Estimated operating costs are described below using bolivares at year 2000 market prices:
Staff Remuneration
Expenditures due to personnel remuneration include salaries and benefits estimated at 50% of the basic salary
of staff assigned to ambulatory services (professional and auxiliary). Also, expenditures of Municipio
Libertador and from other municipalities were included as described in the following table:
Total Personnel Expenditures by Sanitary Districts
District              Total             Professional               Auxiary
DISTRICT 1                    1.271.051.858         1.171.054.572                   99.997.286
DISTRICT 2                    1.631.836.934         1.469.184.141                  162.652.793
DISTRICT 3                    1.330.604.544           882.617.864                  447.986.680
DISTRICT 4                    1.349.641.788           774.928.004                  574.713.784
DISTRICT 7                    4.609.159.695         3.548.037.980                1.061.121.715
TOTAL                        10.192.294.819         7.845.822.561                2.346.472.25
Medical Supplies
Annual medical supplies expenditures were estimated based on information provided by the sanitary districts
and according to type of ambulatory facility. The results indicate that the annual cost of medical supplies is
about Bs. 854,269,200.oo.
Medicines
The estimated annual costs of medicines was Bs.2003,206,194.oo for all ambulatory facilities in districts from
I to 7, in municipalities of Libertador, Baruta, Chacao, el Hatillo and Sucre.



58
Office supplies and janitor services
Office supplies and janitor services annual costs were estimated at Bs. 55,891,440.oo for sanitary districts I to
7, that is, Municipio Libertador, Baruta, Chacao, el Hatillo and Sucre
Public Utilities
Annual costs of electricity, water, swage and waste disposal, were estimated at Bs. 733,720,000,oo for all
ambulatory facilities in sanitary districts I to 7, that is, Municipio Libertador, Baruta, Chacao, el Hatillo and
Sucre, as shown in the following table:
Annual Public Utilities Expenditures
Libertador             339.074.800       46,21
Sucre                  284.073.600       38,72
Baruta                 45.857.500         6,25
hacao                 36.025.650        4,91
atillo                28.688.450        3,91
otal                 733.720.000           100,
Source: Personal estimates
Maintenance Costs
These are expenditures incurred in keeping all ambulatory facilities in optimal operation. They are assumed to
be constant during a period of 10 years of project execution. The estimated maintenance costs were Bs.
593.200.000.oo
Annual Maintenance Cost by Type of Ambulatory Facility and Sanitary Districts
1          1.500.000        30.000.00C      20.400.00C       51.900.000
2          4.500.000         2.500.00C      20.400.00(       27.400.000
3                 0         45.000.00C      20.400.00C       65.400.00(
4                 0         25.000.00      153.000.00       178.000.00
7                 0        117.500.00      153.000.00       270.500.00
Total          6.000.000       220.000.00      367.200.00        593.200.00
Source: Personal estimates
Similarly, maintenance expenditures were distributed among ambulatory facilities in each municipality as
follows:



59
Annual Maintenance Expenditures
Munivipality       Amount (Bs.)   -____
Libertador             305.868.750      51,56
Sucre                  203.912.500      34,38
Baruta                  37.075.000       6,25
Chacao                  23.171.875       3,91
Hatillo                 23.171.875       3,91
Total                  593.200.000      100,00
Summary of Project Annual Operating Costs
n nual Amoust                             Annual Amount
market prices    market                                     Economic
Cat orv -Bso pices US $   RPC   economic sriCeS Bs. prices US $
Personnel   rofessional         7.845.822.561    11.208.318    0,735     5.766.679.582      8.238.114
expenditures  uxiliary          2.346.472.258    3.352.103    0,73        1.724.657.110     2.463.796
Medical supplies                 854.269.200     1.220.385   0,9391        802.244.206      1.146.063
Medicines                       2.003.206.194|    2.861.723   0,9391      1.881.210.936     2.687.444
ffice/janitor supplies           55.891.44(       79.845   0,9391          52.487.651        74.982
eneral Services                 733.720.00X   1.048.171   1,3756        1.009.305.23       1.441.865
OTAL                          13.839.381.65i   19.770.545              11.236.584.71X     16.052.26
Prices as of 12131/2000                     Exchange rate: 700.ooBs./Us$l
Project Benefits
Benefits are classified as direct and indirect. Direct benefits were estimated in terms of disability adjusted life
years (DALYs) valued at economic prices according to contributions to the GNP of the economically active
population. Indirect benefits were valued in terms of the project effects in decongesting hospital emergencies
in the Capital District. For this, the number of incremental patients attended because of the project were
multiplied by the differential cost between ambulatory and emergency services at economic prices. The table
bellow summarizes expected project benefits:



60
Total Benefits at discounted economic prices
(000 Bs.)
Discounted DALYs
Ye\jar t; t0 Indirect Benefits ____________\_ 0 L  Total Benefits
1         21.040.144       2.044.414        23.084.557
2         20.713.441        4.243.176        24.956.617
3         20.318.119        6.605.027        26.923.146
4          19.865.483       9.139.147        29.004.630
5         19.365.761       11.851.247        31.217.008
6         18.828.146       14.760.440        33.588.586
7         18.260.863       13.178.964        31.439.827
8         17.671.226       11.766.932        29.438.158
9         17.065.705       10.506.189        27.571.895
10         16.449.990       9.380.526        25.830.516
11         15.829.054       8.375.470        24.204.524
12         15.207.216       7.478.098        22.685.314
13         14.588.201       6.676.873        21.265.075
14         13.975.196       5.961.494        19.936.690
15         13.370.903       5.322.763        18.693.666
16         12.777.588       4.752.467        17.530.054
17         12.197.129       4.243.274        16.440.402
18         11.631.057       3.788.637        15.419.694
19         11.080.597       3.382.712        14.463.309
20         10.546.704       3.020.278        13.566.982
Source: Personal estimates
Project Evaluation
Project evaluation will be performed using a set of indicators as follows:
Equivalent Care Cost (CAE) resulted in Bs.358.85 or about US$0.50.
The cost effectiveness in terms of DALYs accrued in 10 years was between Bs.622.67/DALY
and 9,871.30/DALY or between US$0.88 and US$13.94
The Net Present Value (NPV) at a discount rate of 12% was estimated at Bs. 348,059.81 or US$ 491.61
The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) was estimated at 68.75% which indicates a project yield 5.73 times higher
than the social discount rate at economic prices.
The risk of the project estimated as the probability of its Present Net Value being less than cero was a
negligible 0.00006%.



61
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Financial Summary (US$ million)
IupIementation Period
____________________________   2002    2003    2004   2005   2006    2007    Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs            4.74    21.88   18.07   10.34   .820             55.85
Recurrent Costs            .370    .974    1.01    1.01    .771               4.14
Total Costs                 5.11    22.85   19.09   11.35    1.59             60.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                        2.67    10.94    9.03    5.17    2.40             30.3
Government                  2.74    11.91    9.00    5.18    1.18             30.0
Total Financing              5.11    22.85    18.3   10.35   3.58              60.3



62
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
General
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Official Newspaper of December 12 has published Decree 1121 that
modifies the existing Procurement Law (#296) "Ley de Licitaciones". The crucial change is the introduction
of a new article that excludes from the application of the law contracts financed with loans from multilateral
financial institutions. In these cases, the national entities are considered to be bound by the agreements with
these institutions. This puts an end to the uncertainty that was generated by the previous law and ensures the
prevalence of World Bank procurement rules. Because there is not a regulation to select consultants, World
Bank's Guidelines applies without any restriction. However, in order to improve the transparency and
competition for NCB and be acceptable to the World Bank, special provisions should be include in the Loan
Agreement on the following aspects: (i) registration as a condition of submission of bids; (ii) the use of two
envelopes; (iii) minimum period for submission of bids; (iv) requests by bidders for confidentiality of parts of
bids; (v) publication of cost estimates; (vi) use of cost estimates for disqualification of bids; (vii) declaring bid
null because two or more bids were not received; and (viii) fragmentation of subjects of procurement.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Procurement of works and goods financed by the WB under the project shall carried out in accordance with
WB's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the following provisions of Section I of this Annex.
Grouping of contracts: To the extent practicable contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost US$250,000 and US$5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Notification and advertising: The General Procurement Notice to be published in the Development Business
shall be updated annually for outstanding procurement. All invitation to bid shall be published in one
newspaper of national circulation and in the Official newspaper "Gazeta Oficial de la Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela". In addition, an invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or
more shall be advertised in the Development Business in accordance with the procedures applicable to large
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. To obtain expressions of interest for large consultant
assignments (contracts expected to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent) a specific procurement notice shall
be also published in Development Business.
Section I-Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement describe below, and the estimated amounts for each method, are
summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project could include construction or rehabilitation of primary health care units in
order to adapt them to the new functions totaling about US$23.5 million equivalent. Major contracts for these
works will be procured following ICB, using SBDs. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$5,000,000
million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$15.0 million equivalent, may be procured
using NCB and agreed Standard Bidding Documents. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$350,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$2.0 million equivalent, may be procured through
price comparison received in response to a written invitation to at least three contractors. The written



63
invitation will include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, and a basic contract form acceptable to the World Bank.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project will include medical and no-medical equipment, hardware and premise
structure wiring totaling US$14.86 million equivalent. Major contracts for these goods will be procured
following ICB, using SBDs. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregated amount of US$ 1.5 million equivalent, may be procured using NCB and agreed Standard
Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods that cannot be grouped into large bidding packages and estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$500,000 million
equivalent, may be procured using shopping (National or International) procedures based on a request form
for quotations acceptable to the World Bank.
Section II-Employment of Consultants
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by the WB
Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the following provisions of
Section II of this Annex. Consultant services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of
expertise: training, design, construction supervision, audits and institutional development. These services are
estimated to cost US$13.48 million equivalent and would be procured using WB Standard Request of
Proposals.
Firms: All contracts for consultant firms would be procured using QCBS procedures.
Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individuals consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregated amount of US$ 1,000,000.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraphs. The short list of consultants, estimated to cost
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Other consultant services shall be procured following provisions of a bidding document satisfactory to the WB
and contracts awarded to the bidder whose bid has determined to be substantially responsive to the bidding
documents and who has offered the lowest evaluated price, provide that such bidder is eligible and qualified.
These services will be contracted under this project in the following areas: training and workshops and the
design of education, information and communication campaigns. These services are estimated to cost
US$8.26 million equivalent.
Section HII-Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carried out by L. Braslavsky, Country Procurement
Specialist, LCOPR, and approved by Regional Procurement Advisor (RPA) on 5/11/2001. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), in the Ministry of Health and Social Development will be entrusted with overseeing
project implementation, including procurement activities under this project. The PCU has three areas: (i)
Technical, (ii) Financial that includes among others, procurement, and disbursement, and (iii) Evaluation and
Supervision.
The specific area that will manage procurement activities is called "Procura", this office has experience in
WB operation because they satisfactory executed previous World Bank's projects. Three of the Procura's
staff has attended WlB's Procurement Seminars. During the year 2000 the area carried out 23 contracts for



64
purchase of goods, 60 civil works contracts and 14 consultant services contracts. "Procura" will consolidate
the municipal procurement plans, review procurement documentation and send to the World Bank for
comments as needed.
Most of the procurement will be carried out by "Procura" as well as the procurement training to the
municipalities, with the exception of the procurement required to implement subprojects that will be carried
out by each municipal health directorate with the supervision from "Procura". The municipalities will be
responsible for: (i) preparing annual plans to be implemented as subprojects; (ii) recruiting and managing
consultant services; and (iii) reporting to "Procura".
To ensure Procura's and municipals' staff knowledge of WB procurement Guidelines and procedures, a
Project Launch Seminar that includes procurement should be scheduled at the beginning of project
implementation.
During project preparation, the Ministry of Health and Social Development and the Manager of the PCU have
confirmed their will for ethical behavior and have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive
selection and transparency in all activities and conduct procurement audits. Based on the above procurement
risk for the project is rated as "average".
Operating Costs. The loan will not finance operational costs.
Section IV: Procurement Monitoring.
1. Project Coordination Unit (PCU) through Procura will be responsible to monitor project implementation,
it has already prepared a Procurement Plan for the project (attached) and will prepare annually a
Procurement Plan satisfactory to the WB and establish procedures for monitoring project execution and
impact, procurement implementation, including monitoring of contracts execution. The "Procura" will
maintain detailed records of procurement activities.
Review by the Bank. The proposed threshold for prior review by the Bank is based on the procurement
assessment of the project executive agency and is summarized in Table B. The proposed thresholds will allow
to prior review 90% of the total project cost. In addition to this review of individual procurement actions, the
annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank, as well as procurement audits to be
carried out during the life of the project.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-review
mission for the project shall be completed every 12 months and shall cover not less than one in 20 contracts
signed.



65
TABLE Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Method
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB        Other (a)        Total
1. Works                 6.50        15.00        2.00           23.50
(3.25)      (7.87)       (1.00)        (12.12)
2. Goods                 12.86        1.50        0.50           14.86
(6.90)      (0.75)       (0.25)         (7.90)
3. Services
Consultants                                    13.48          13.48
(6.43)         (6.43)
Other  Consultants                             8.26            8.26
Services                                      (3.55)         (3.55)
4.Front-end-Fee                                   0.30           0.30
(0.30)        (0.30)
19.36       16.50       24.54           60.30
Total                   (10.15)      (8.62)      (11.53)        (30.30)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
ICB = International Competitive Bidding;
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
a.= Shopping, Services and Front-end-Fee



66
TABLE A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services         Total Cost (including contingencies)
Expenditure Category           :           :_______:
_______________    QCBS           Other           TOTAL
A. Firms                   12.48                         12.48
(5.90)                       (5.90)
B. Individuals                           1.00             1.00
(0.53)          (0.53)
C. Other consultant                      8.26            8.26
services                            (3.55)           (3.55)
Total               12.48        9.26            21.74
(5.9)        (4.08)          (9.98)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Other   Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), other consultant services.



67
TABLE B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$1,000 equivalent)
Category            Contract     Procurement      Contracts Subject to
Value         Method        Prior Reviews by Bank
(thresholds)
Works
>5,000        ICB             All
350-5,000     NCB             First two contracts each
year
<350          Shopping at     None
least 3
contractors
Goods
2250          ICB             All
50-250        NCB             First two contracts each
year/
<50           Shopping at     None
least 3 suppliers
Services
Consulting Services:
Firms                 Ž200           QCBS-Short    All
List
International
>100          QCBS            All
<100          QCBS            TORs
Other Services          2100           LCS             All
Other Services          <100           LCS             None
Individual            Ž50            Consultant     All
Qualifications
<50           Consultant      TORs
Qualifications
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB= National Competitive Bidding
QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection
LCS= Least Cost Selection



68
TABLE C
Allocation and Disbursement of Loan
Expenditure Category              Amount                      Financing
(US$ million)            Percentage (of total
.__________________________  .__________________________       project   costs)
Works                                 10.140                        50%
Goods- Medical and Non-               10.000                   100% of foreign
Medical Equipment                                         expenditures, 65% of local
expenditures
Services                               8.820                        55%
Unallocated                            1.037
Front-end-Fee                          0.33                        100%
Total                                  30.30
Financial Management
All financial management issues of the project will be the responsibility of the PCU. For that purpose, an
Administrative and Financial Unit has been established within the PCU. This Unit consists of a Coordinator,
a Disbursement Assistant, a Procurement Officer and an Officer for Budget Planning and Monitoring.
Responsibilities of each of them are detailed in the Operational Manual of the project.
Responsibility for managing the accounts and consolidating accounts will rest on the Accountant of the
Financial and Administrative Unit of the PCU. The project will start disbursing based on reporting of
expenditures until December 3 l, 2001. In parallel by request of the borrower, the PCU will prepare Project
Management Report (PMR) in order to move the project to produce information only through PMR's after
January 15 2002 on a regular and timely basis. If that will be the case, the PCU will prepare and forward to
the World Bank quarterly PMR's (respectively by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year).
By December 31 of each year beginning in 2001, the PCU would prepare and forward to the World Bank an
annual implementation plan detailing project activities contemplated for the subsequent calendar year. Hence,
by request of the borrower loan disbursements will be made on the basis of PMR's.
Details of the flow of funds, as well as guidelines for each of the procedures must be contained in the project's
Operational Manual.
Detailed supporting documentation, including certification, for expenditures will be kept by the PCU for at
least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement takes place. For all contracts requiring the
World Bank's prior review, full documentation will accompany disbursement request until disbursement is
based on PMR's.
Detailed documentation will be retained by the PCU for inspection during supervision missions and for audit
by external auditors acceptable to the World Bank. These auditors will audit the Special Account and the other
financial statements annually. The audit report will be submitted to the World Bank no more than 4 months
after the end of each fiscal year. Detailed terms of reference for the auditors will be prepared following
guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook.
Disbursements
Allocation of Loan proceeds (Table C): The total loan of US$30.3 million would be disbursed over a five-
year period in accordance with Table C. All project activities are expected to be completed by June 30, 2006,



69
and the Loan would close on December 31, 2006. Allocation of Loan proceeds by disbursement categories
and percentages financed by the loan are presented in Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring
the World Bank's prior review will be submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for goods
contracts below US$250,000, for works contracts below US$ 5,000,000, and for services contracts below
US$100,000 for consulting firms and training and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be made on the
basis of SOEs. Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the Project Executing
Entities and made available for review by the WB supervision missions and project auditors. Documentation
relating to SOEs and other project expenditures would be retained for one year after the fiscal year in which
the final withdrawal from the Loan will take place. These will be phased out when the project is converted to
PMR-based disbursement, as per the action plan.
Disbursements. The treasury of Venezuela will have the option to advance the funds to the PCU to pay for
all eligible expenditures under the projects. The counterpart funding has already been approved for FY 2001.
The PCU will then ask for reimbursement in the account of the Treasury for all eligible expenditures financed
by the loan. The MOF will ensure that the PCU have enough funding to attend to the necessities of the
project. Disbursements from the WB loan would be initially made based on project expenditures, i.e.,
reimbursement with full documentation and against SOEs, and direct payments.  Once the financial
management information system (refer to the Action Plan) is operational and all conversion requirements have
been met, full conversion to PMR-based disbursements will be considered at the request of the Borrower. The
assessment of the financial management system was conducted and the issuing of a certification ensuring that
the system is operating satisfactory was carried out prior to negotiations. It is expected that the PCU will be
able to submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) to the WB by April 2002.
Special Account. A separate special account (SA) will be opened and maintained in US$ for the project in a
commercial bank. The PCU will have immediate and direct access to this account to pay for all their eligible
expenditures in local and foreign currency inside and outside the country. The MOF is developing the
procedures that would govem the use of the special account by the PCU. The PCU will receive timely
payment advice and monthly statements to be able to prepare their accounting and monthly replenishment.
Replenishment applications would be submitted to the World Bank monthly under traditional disbursement
and quarterly when disbursement would be based on PMR.
Once the SA becomes operational, the authorized allocation will be US$2.5 millions, limited to US$ 500,000
until disbursement from the loan reaches US$ 4 millions. When disbursement moves to be based on PMR, the
authorized allocation will be increased to US$5 million.



70
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. ProjectBdet (USVOO)                                 Agctua
Preparation, Appraisal; and Negotiaions:
B. Project Schedule                            Actual
Time taken to prepare the project              12 months
Identification mission                         June 2000
Appraisal mission departure                    May 2001
Negotiations                                   May 2001
Planned date of effectiveness                  Oct./Nov. 2001
Prepared by:                             MSDS of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Preparation assistance:                  PHRD Grant and UNAIDS
Bank Staff and Consultants who worked on the project include:
Patricio Marquez (Team Leader, LCSHD); Daniel Cotlear (Health Economist, LCSHD); Lea Braslavski,
Claudia Macias, Karina Kashiwamoto (LCC 1C); Marta Molares-Halberg (LEGOP); Issam Abousleiman
(LOAG3); Oscar Echeverri, Alberto G6nima. (Consultants); Michelle Gragnolati, Mary Dowling, Maria
Colchao (LCSHD), Luis Schwarz (LCOAA); Ernesto Guerrero (UNAIDS);
Local Counterpart Team:
Ministry of Health and Social Development
Dra. Maria Urbaneja, Minister of Health and Social Development
Project Coordinating Unit:
Name    Piition
WALDO REVELLO                 PROGRAM COORDINATOR
ALBERTO RONDON                ASSISTANT, PROGRAM COORDINATOR
BERNARDO GUZMAN               PROGRAM MANAGER
JUDITH LUIS                    CONSULTANT
MARY CARMEN PEREIRO           CONSULTANT
TERFA EL RIFAY                CONSULTANT
ROBZENAY SOTO                 CONSULTANT
NERIO MARQUEZ                  CONSULTANT
YOLANDA ALVAREZ               CONSULTANT
EVA RODRIGUEZ                 UNDER SECRETARY, MDC MAYOR OFFICE
ROSMARY HUNG                  DIRECTOR CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT, MDC MAYOR
OFFICE
LISBETH SUAREZ                CHIEF, DTTO. No. 1
MARIA ELENA MARQUEZ           COORDINATOR, AMBULATORY NETWORK No. 3
HEIDI MORALES                 COORDINATOR CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT, DISTRICT No. 4
JOSE LUIS GARCIA              CHIEF, DISTRICT No. 7
AFRICA RAMOS                   EPIDEMIOLOGIST, DISTRICT No. 7
CARLOS SERRANO                HEALTH DIRECTOR, SUCRE MUNICIPALITY
GUSTAVO VILLASMIL             HEALTH DIRECTOR, BARUTA MUNICIPALITY
LILIANA VERGARA               COORDINADOR MEDICAL SERVICES CHACAO
ELIZABETH SAENZ               DIRECTOR, HEALTH CARE SERVICES, CHACAO



71
Dr. Gilberto Rodriguez, Former Minister of Health and Social Development, Dr. Oscar Feo, Dr. Ely Saul
Gonzalez, and Dr. Jorge Diaz Polanco, were involved in the identification and startup preparation of the
project.
Peer Reviewers:
Internal Peer Reviewers:    Salim Habayeb, Principal Health Specialist, SASHP
Willy De Geyndt, External Reviewer
Juan Pablo Uribe, Health Specialist, LCSHD
Luiz Loures, HIV/AIDS Specialist, UNAIDS
External Peer Reviewers    Willy de Geyndt (Principal Health Specialist, ret.).



72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Investing in Human Capital for Growth, Prosperity and
Poverty Reduction. ReportNo. 21833-VE. March 30, 2001.
Aide Memoire Identification and Preparation Missions, March 1999, October 1999, June 2000, December
2000, and May 2001.
C. Other MSDS. Atencion Integral, Conceptualizaci6n, Normas y Procedimientos
MSDS. Planificaci6n de Redes de Establecimientos de Salud
MSDS. Fortalecimiento de la Red de Servicios de Atenci6n a la Salud del Distrito Metropolitano de Caracas
Curcio, P. Analisis del gasto en salud y su impacto sobre los indicadores de Salud
Curcio, P. Analisis del financiamiento de la salud en Venezuela
Linea Base y metas estimadas al final del proyecto
Informe de evaluaci6n econ6mica ex-ante
Manual de Operaciones (Versi6n Preliminar)
TDR evaluaci6n y monitoreo del proyecto (encuesta de usuarios)
Convenio Base
Borrador de Convenio de Participaci6n
Plan de Cuentas (Versi6n Preliminar)
TDR auditoria extema
Plan de Aquisiciones por categorias
Costos Totales. Cronograma de Desembolso (Gastos de inversi6n y gastos operativos)
Informe del Proyecto (PAD)
TDR para la contrataci6n del Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n Financiera
Cuadro Resumen de Procesos Eecutados y Cncelados por el Grant - Japones
Observaciones al PAD
TDR para la evaluaci6n legal y catastral de los establecimientos



73
Annex 9: Statement of Bank Group Operations in Venezuela (As of 03/29/2001)
Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects    27
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)    203.20
of which has been repaid   67.33
Total Disbursed (Closed)   2,188.70
of which has been repaid   1,451.40
Total Disbursed (Active +   2,391.93
Closed)
of which has been repaid   1,518.74
Total Undisbursed (Active)  278.98
Total Undisbursed (Closed)  13.48
Total Undisbursed (Active + 292.46
Closed)
Difference
Between
Active Projects                                  Last PSR                                                Expected and Actual
Supervision        Original Amount in                      Disbursements a/
Rating              USS Millions
Project ID             Project Name                  D0    IP    FY    IBRD  IDA GRANT   Cancel.  Undisb. Orig.  Frn Rev'd
P008222                AG EXT                      S        S   1995       39    0       0        0      24.1  20.6  16.1
P040174                CARACAS SLUM UPGRADE    S            U    1999    60.7    0       0        0        58   15.5  -0.1
P035743                ENV MGT                     U        U    1998      28    0       0        0        22    22     0
P008223                HWY MGMT                    S        S    1993     150    0       0       40      62.7 102.7  62.7
P008237                INPARQUES                   S        U    1995      55    0       0        8      26.8  34.8  34.8
P008210                URBAN TRANSP.               S        S    1994     100    0       0       20      27.7  47.7  27.7
P008233                VE JUD.INFRA DEV            S        S    1993      30    0       0       1.6     11.7  13.3  13.3
P041807                VE PUB SEC MOD & DECEN    U          U    1998       8    0       0        0         8   3.1     0
P057601                VE PUBLC EXPNDITURE MGT  S           U    1999      20    0       0        0        16   8.1     0
P044325                VE SUPREME COURT STRGTH HS          HS   1998      4.7    0       0        0       0.1  -0.4     0
P008215                VE- HEALTH SERVICE REFOR  S          S    1995      54    0       0        0      16.8  16.8   16
P066749                VE- MILL SCIENCE INITIATIVE  S       S   2000        5    0       0        0         5    1.5    0
Overall result                                                  Result  554.4    0       0      69.6      279 285.8 170.6



74
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Venezuela
Venezuela
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 11/30/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                        Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan      Equity Quasi Partic    Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
1996 CANTV                  0      0    25         0      0      0    25       0
1995/98     COMSIGUA            32.67     10     0   102.39  32.67      10      0 102.39
1991192     Corimon                 0   0.98     0         0      0   0.98      0      0
1999/00     EDC                   30       0     0         0     10      0      0      0
2000 ForestalTrillium    16.8      6      0       10   5.01    2.4      0   2.99
1992 Jose Methanol      13.51    6.8     0      2.59  13.51    6.8      0   2.59
1992 MAVESA                 0      9     0         0      0       9     0      0
1997/00     Minera Loma             0      0     0         0      0      0      0      0
1997 Movilnet           30.63      0     0        50  30.63      0      0     50
1990 Pralca              7.22   7.51     0         0   7.22   7.51      0      0
1999 Profalca              24      0     0        23     24       0     0     23
1991/94     Zuliano                 0   1.07     0         0      0   1.07      0      0
Total Portfolio:        154.83  41.36    25   187.98 123.04  37.76    25 180.97
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity Ouasi Partic
2001 Andino           7619.05      0      0 24380.95
1999 Ceraven            15000      0     0    25000
2000 Elkem Carbn         8000      0      0     7000
2000 Intersea            5000   3000      0        0
Total Pending Commitment:  35619.05   3000      0 56380.95



75
Annex 10: Venezuela at a Glance
R.B. de Venezuela at a glance                                                                    9112100
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Venezuela,  America   mi-ddle-
RB   & Carib.  income        Development dlamnond
1999
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        23.7       509        573                 Lfe expectancy
GNP oer capita (Atlas method. US$1                     3.690     3.840     4.900
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       87.5      1.955     2.811
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Potulation (%                                           2.1        1.6       1.4
Labor force (C/l                                         2.9       2.5        2.1     GNP                               Gross
per                             pn.mary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                rcapita           \nrntlmp.nt
Povertv (1/. of ooDulation below national Dovertv line)  52
Urban oopulaton (% of total Dooulabon)                   87         75        76    j
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                         73         70        70
Infant mortalitv (Der 1. 000 live births)                21         31        27
Child malnutrition (. of childene under 5)                5          8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of DoDulationl        79         75        78
Illiteracv I% of poDulation ace 15+)                      8         12        10
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-ape poDulajonI      91        113       109               Venezuela
Male                                                   90                          I         Upper-mirddle4ncome group
Female                                                 93
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998       1999
|Economic r;los
GDP (US$ bl lions)                            57.6      43.6      95.5      102.2
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 33.2      12.7      21.2       15.6
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             26.0      34.1      20.0       22.0    I                Trade
Gross domestic savingsvGDP                    34 5      25 7      20.2      22.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    33.8      21 2      18.4       21.1
Current account balance/GDP                    0.6       5.0      -2.7        5.4
Interest paymentslGDP                          1.4       5 6       2.3       2.1      Domestic           -         Investment
Total debtUGDP                                41.8      74.3      38.8       36.4     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    19.1      24.6      27.4      21.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                         39.5
Present value of debtlexports                                    175.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth) )
GDP                                   0.5      2.3      -0.1      -72         2.4               Venezuela
GNP per capita                       -2.5      0 2      -1 1       -8.7       0.6               Upper-middle4ncome group
Exports of goods and services         0.6      6 0       4 0      -11.1      8.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investmernt and GDP(%J
(% of GDP,                                                                            a
Agriculture                                    4.8       61        5.1        5.1       T
Industry                                      46.3     450        35 3      36.4    20
Manufacturing                                16.3     20.8       15.4      14 4
Services                                      49.0      48.9      59.6       58.5    -9
Private consumption                           54.3      64.7      72.1      70.2      a0 
General oovemment consumolion                 11.2       9.6       7.7        7.6                  GDI            GDP
Imports of goods and services                 24.7      21.1      20.9       15.4
19794t9  1989-99      1998       1999    I Growth of expohts and imports (%)
(average annual growthi) 
Agriculture                                     3.1      1.0       0.6       -2.0   140
Industry                                       0.7       3.5      -09        -92                   A     l / .
Manufactunng                                 .4.5      1.4       -39       -647
Services                                       0.1       0.4       02        -4.7     ol        f    \   f
Private consumption                             1.6      0.9      -0 1       -4 7    -2                 Y       7    98
General aovemment consumption                   1.8     -0.1       2.2        1.4
Gross domestic investment                      -4.6      5.1      -2.6      -26.2     a
Imports of goods and services                 -0.9       6.2       7.3     -21.0                   Exporis    m mports
Gross national product                         0.0       2.5       0.9       -69
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four hey indicators in the country (in bold) Compared with its income-grouP average. If dala are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



76
Venezuela
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prnces
(% change)                                                                              loJ T
Consumer prices                                 12.2     84A4       35.8       23.6     t5
Implicit GDP deflator                           19 0     89 2       20.7       27.6     so
Government finance                                                                      25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      o -
Current revenue                                 19.5     20.4       16.4       16.7              94    95   96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                           6.5       1.6       0.4        0.2                 GDP deator         CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                          2.2      -1 2       -3.7      -3 1
TRADE
(US$millions)                                   1979     1989       1998      1999 )Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           14,360   13,286     17,320    19,565      25.000 T
Oil                                         13,673    9,862      12,111    16,627
Steel                                          208      523        947        969     20.000
Manufactures                                   152    1,267       1,543     1,219     15,000 _
Total imports (cif)                            9,612    7,263     13,889    14,558      lD.000                            m m
Food                                            I. ,.                  _        _                                       m
Fuel and energy                                  I.                                    s.oo
Capital goods                                2,591    2,459       2,872     2.803     i
ExwortDriceindex 0995=10)                       213      134         73        90             93   94   t5  96  97   98   ss
Imoort rice index t1995=v1001                     99       72        130       120                  U Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        215      185         56        75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999        urlttcubaneoGPe)
(USS millions)                                                                          Crrent account balance to GDP-)%)
Exports of goods and services                 14,959   14,028     19,021    22,375     3
Imports of goods and services                 14,199    9,312     19,870    15,725
Resource balance                                 760    4,716       -849     6,650      is
Net income                                        -3   -2,368      -1,559    -1.148
Net current transfers                           -407     -187       -154         7       s -                I     u _!
Current account balance                          350    2,161      -2,562    5,509
Financing items (net)                          3,748   -3,899       -382    -4.648                 94   95   9S   97          9
Changes in net reserves                       -4,098     1,738     2.944       -86'     ,
Memo:
Reserves includinc aold (US$ millions)        12.190    7.546     14.807    14.924
Conversion rate (DEC. local/tJS$)                43       34.7     5476       605 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          24,056   32,377     37,003    37,228
IBRD                                           155      119      1.218     1,163                       A 1193
IDA                                             0         0          0         0               G: 2,405       c 760
Total debt service                             3,111    3,831      5,880      5,294
IBRD                                           40         4        256       297
IDA                                             0         0          0         0                                       E ,2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                -1         4         22         0
Official creditors                             -35      345      1,119      -227
Private creditors                            3.786      177      2,367    -1,402
Foreign direct investment                      86        93      4,435     2.070
Portfolio equity                                 0       10         64       436               F 27,99
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0      755         69        20    . A - lBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    1      115        188       119     8B-IDA     D-Oth.eriultlaterel   F - Pmate
Principal repayments                           25         4        180       208     j C - IMF                     G - Shoi-temi
Net flows                                      -24      111          8       -89
Interest payments                               15        0         77        89
Net transfers                                 -39       111        -69      -178
Development Economics                                                                                                       9112o00



MAP SECTION






rCar           n,,Iea -   GSeram
|'j                                                                                                       r                                                       GR_ _s'AIDAR , X>      
REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA  ~-~-                                                                       _ S_y~t          BO IVAR   )tGYN
DE VENEZUELA                                                                                                                                                       GUYANA ES AI A
CARACAS METROPOLITAN                                                     aPuertoAycoccho                   ,            V                       
50HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                                       ,,                                  0
*     PROJECT LOCATION 4gt   -  
e    STATE CAPITALS                     COLOMBIA    ("               /e°<<                                               ,         
s    NAlONAL CAPrrAL                                 , , C              AMAZONAS                                                               W \  \.-N_  III I O
±    AIRPORTS                                                                                          N Rs  G    .\A
,I   PORTS                                                              ' ,                \                                                                     60°?
-~-'-- RIVERS                          ./,>='<AX ____________,______________S
-      -IA    STATE BOUNDARIES                             / %                                        
-*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                  L.r                                                    Ocwn
/  % 0'      -                     "  I ;.
TRUALLO           C-\ \ JE  X   s  ..DE 
Tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0          100         200          3C00~\t                                                                                                    C;                        EEUL          A<).
KlLoMgERS ~ ~     ~    ~    ~                                                                                                                        -  a>t       .  J s &IEsueA  _
Thismo wsprdueed by the Mop Desi go IJiitof Th. Wordd3ock   i_  .                          *                                    X-                          COLOMBIA       '    ~-.:   -
C  The bounrsor,clr, denanorlroio.rs rd oryotiw irrfOrmoion rO                                         -      *.              R   Lt8><                                                L     
jZ   shoerras tis nrpdoeotimply, on tIe portof Th, Word Bok                                                                    BRA.ZI,.Lw- a   
Gsosur, orsy jodgmees on te legal Stain of any ernritay. or any   *0         -,                                    650                              d                    )     >,        BA3 
-XSwloreoulzeof«ucSooundxries.                1                                                                    |                            . =                    r~                              os



