Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7062-VE
Loan Agreement
(Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project)
between
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7062-VE
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 2001, between the BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF 
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“HCN” or “Health Care Network” means a network of out-patient departments 
of hospitals, ambulatory centers and pre
-
hospital emergency medical services
 
(ambulance, 
communications and paramedics) which delivers in the MDC a comprehensive health care 
program that meets the requirements of the Operational Manual (as defined below);
(e)
“HCN Health Services Subproject” means a subproject for the strengthening of 
the health services delivery of an HCN, selected, approved and implemented in accordance with 
the requirements of the Operational Manual and consisting of one or more of the investments 
Page  3
referred to in Part A of the Project;
(f)
“HCN Institutional Development Subproject” means a subproject for the 
institutional strengthening of an HCN, selected, approved and implemented in accordance with 
the requirements of the Operational Manual and consisting of one or more of the investments 
referred to in Part B of the Project;
(g)
“HCN Subproject” means an HCN Health Services Subproject and/or an HCN 
Institutional Development Subproject;
(h)
“HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(i)
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus;
(j)
“Law 296” means the Borrower’s Procurement Law published in the Official 
Gazette (as defined below) No. 5386 Extraordinary, on October 11, 1999 as amended on 
December 12, 2000;
(k)
“MDC” means 
Distrito Metropolitano de Caracas
,
the Metropolitan District of 
Caracas, a political and territorial unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s Special Law for the 
Regime of the Caracas Metropolitan District published in the Official Gazette on March 8, 2000;
(l)
“MHSD” means 
Ministerio de Salud y Desarrollo Social
,
the Borrower’s  
Ministry of Health and Social Development;
(m)
“Model HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement” means the model HCN 
Subproject Implementation Agreement set forth in the Operational Manual;
(n)
“Municipality” means any of the following municipalities: (i) the Municipality 
of 
Libertador
 within the jurisdiction of the MDC; and (ii) the Municipalities of 
Sucre
,
Baruta
,
Chacao
 and 
El Hatillo, 
within the jurisdiction of both the MDC and the State of 
Miranda
;
(o)
“Network Parties” means the MDC, the State of Miranda and the Municipalities;
(p)
“Official Gazette” means 
Gaceta Oficial
, the Borrower’s gazette;
(q)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(r)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in a letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
Page  4
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(u)
“State of 
Miranda
”
means one of the twenty-three federal territorial units of the 
Borrower; and
(v)
“Umbrella Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million three hundred thousand 
dollars
 
($30,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and  services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006
 
or
such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Page  5
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 
15, 2011.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without any limitation to the authority of the representative of the 
Borrower under Section 6.01 of this Agreement, the General Director of Public Finance of the 
Borrower is authorized by the Borrower to furnish to the Bank on its behalf the evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of the Borrower for purposes of 
Article 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions and the authenticated 
specimen signature of any such person.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the MHSD, with the assistance of the MDC, 
the State of 
Miranda
 and the Municipalities, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate health, economic, technical, administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
Page  6
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall operate and  maintain, during the implementation of the 
Project, a Project coordination unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, at 
all times headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through the MHSD, enter into an agreement with the 
Network Parties under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the 
parties’ agreement:
(i)
to participate in the implementation of the Project in accordance with the 
terms of this Agreement; and
(ii)
to make legal or administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to 
integrate the Health Care Networks and consolidate the Borrower’s 
decentralization efforts, such agreement to include a binding timetable 
therefore.
(d)
The Borrower shall, through the MHSD, enter into an agreement with the 
Network Parties, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the Model HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement, to set 
forth, in respect of each HCN Subproject, 
inter alia
:
(i)
the respective responsibilities of the MHSD, the MDC, the State of 
Miranda
 and the concerned Municipalities in the management of the 
health services provided in such HCN;
(ii)
the respective responsibilities in the implementation of the HCN 
Subproject, including procurement, financial management and 
monitoring and supervision, and the applicable environmental 
obligations;
(iii)
in the case of HCN Health Services Subprojects the performance 
indicators agreed to by the Network Parties for implementation during 
the HCN Subproject;
(iv)
the Network Parties’ obligation to provide the counterpart funds required 
for the operation of the HCN and/or the implementation of the HCN 
Subproject; and
(v)
if applicable, the Network Parties’ obligation to set up, within an agreed 
timetable during the Project implementation period a semi-autonomous 
or autonomous health management and delivery agency to operate the 
Page  7
HCN.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Umbrella Participation Agreement and each of the HCN Subproject Implementation Agreements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Umbrella Participation 
Agreement or any HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall:
(a)
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b)
be audited annually under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, with the 
resulting audit reports to be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each 
calendar year.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the procurement and financial requirements thereof);
(b)
requirements for establishment and operation of the Health Care Networks;
(c)
the criteria for the selection, approval, implementation and monitoring of HCN 
Subprojects including the performance indicators thereof;
(d)
the Model HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement; and
(e)
the procedures for construction of facilities, internal waste management, the 
handling and disposal of bio-medical waste, and equipment operation.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this  
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Page  8
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during the 
period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
(i) 
review with the Bank shortly after such report’s preparation:
(A)
the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(B)
by not later than twenty six months after the Effective Date, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and in 
particular: (I) the effectiveness of Project inputs in improving 
the HCNs’ performance; (II) the progress made in the legislative 
reforms of the health sector, including any as shall be required to 
consolidate the decentralization and public participation 
processes in the MDC;  and (III) any changes in the Project 
implementation arrangements that might be warranted; and
(ii)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's 
views on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
Page  9
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including as 
part of the information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
Page  10
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual;
(b)
the Borrower has strengthened the financial management system referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank including in particular that 
the Borrower has developed an integrated financial system, and an assets and inventory 
Page  11
management and control system for the Project; and
(c)
the Umbrella Participation Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
Section 5.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Umbrella Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and the Network Parties and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Network Parties in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Borrower has taken all necessary measures to establish a special account 
in dollars in a commercial bank.
Section 5.03. The date March 21, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Avenida Urdaneta
Esquina de Carmelitas
Edificio Sede
Caracas 1010
República Bolivariana de Venezuela
Telex:
Facsimile:
24215 HDACP
8022031
8021893
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  12
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Caracas, 
Venezuela, as of the day and year first above written.
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By  /s/ Jesús Bermúdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Felipe Saez
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  13
Category
(Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
10,140,000
50%
(2)
Goods
10,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, and 65%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services,
8,820,000
55%
Training and Audits
(4)
Front end fee
303,000
(5)
Unallocated
1,037,000
TOTAL
30,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ services) 
incurred in connection with the provision of training under the Project, including the reasonable 
travel cost and per-diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 8, 2001; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures for HCN Subprojects unless the respective 
HCN Subproject Implementation Agreement has been signed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower:
Page  14
(a)
for goods, works and services of individual consultants, and consulting firms 
under contracts in respect of which prior review is not required pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts D.2 of Sections I and II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b)
for Training.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
Page  15
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposits by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equal to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to  $500,000
 
until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
Page  16
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed $2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the  Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special 
Page  17
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $5,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand the access and improve the quality and 
efficiency of ambulatory facilities and outpatient departments of hospitals  in the MDC; (b) to 
improve the management of the Borrower’s health care system and to support the 
decentralization process of the health sector in the MDC; (c) to develop and implement 
HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies in the MDC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: HCN Health Services Subprojects
Financing of investment for the strengthening of the health services of the Health Care 
Networks consisting, 
inter alia
, of:
(a)
the rehabilitation and/or construction of health care centers, out-patient 
departments of hospitals and other physical infrastructure;
(b)
the  equipping and provision of communication systems and ambulances for 
patient referral and emergency care for such health facilities;
(c)
communication activities;
(d)
the development of maintenance systems for physical infrastructure and 
equipment; and
Page  18
(e)
the rehabilitation of malfunctioning or inoperative basic systems for water, 
electricity, and air conditioning of the health facilities.
Part B
: HCN Institutional Development Subprojects
Financing of investments for the institutional strengthening of the Health Care Networks 
consisting in the development and implementation of, 
inter alia
:
(a)
mechanisms for allocation of resources to the HCNs, for purposes of promoting 
allocative and technical efficiency;
(b)
accounting, budgeting, contracting, billing and collection systems;
(c)
surveys of consumers’ satisfaction and continued education programs for the 
HCN’s staff;
(d)
management information systems to provide managers at different levels in the 
MHSD, the MDC, the State of 
Miranda
 and the Municipalities, and in the facilities thereof with 
the required online information to manage, monitor and evaluate their health programs;
(e)
(i) minimum accreditation standards for hospital and other health care facilities, 
procedures and services in  the HCNs and the ambulatory and hospital facilities thereof; (ii) 
health sector staff certification, qualification requirements, competencies and productivity 
benchmarks; and (iii) requirements and specifications for physical infrastructure, equipment, and  
supplies;
(f)
managerial guidelines for strategic planning, human resources development and 
management, supplies and installations; and clinical protocols to support performance; and
(g) 
(i) revision and updating of the existing norms and guidelines for the handling 
and disposal of medical waste in health care facilities; and (ii) training of health personnel in the 
application of these standards to protect high-risk groups such as patients and staff in the HCNs’ 
health facilities.
Part C
: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
1.
Formulation of a multi-sectoral strategic plan for the prevention and control of 
HIV/AIDS in the MDC.
2.
Design of information, education, and communication campaigns addressed primarily to 
groups at high risk of HIV transmission, and aimed to raise awareness and understanding about 
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases, to promote behavioral changes to avoid the spread 
of HIV, to promote voluntary testing and counseling, and to reduce the stigmatization of  HIV 
Page  19
infected persons.
3.
Strengthening of the MHSD’s surveillance system to increase the MHSD’s knowledge of 
the health situation in general, and of the HIV/AIDS situation in particular, and to improve 
decision making and resource allocation through, 
inter alia, 
 the development and 
implementation of: (a) guidelines for undertaking cross-sectional surveys of behavior; and (b) 
data collections and population characteristics surveys.
4.
Development of an information system for the control and follow up of HIV/AIDS’ 
patients, and action plans for the eradication and control of HIV/AIDS in the MDC, training of 
health personnel, and equipping of two HIV/AIDS diagnostic centers.
Part D
: MDC Health Sector Institutional Development
1.
Development of: 
(a)
a new legal, regulatory and/or administrative framework to support greater 
autonomy of the agencies providing health services in the MDC as well as civil society 
participation in the management of such services, including a redefinition of the roles of the 
MHDS, the MDC, the Borrower’s social security system, and
 
the Municipalities, including the 
framework required to legally integrate the Health Care Networks; and
(b)
mechanisms for a coordinated
 
and decentralized delivery of health services in 
the MDC.
2.
Revision of existing norms and regulations governing health organization and managerial 
arrangements in the MDC.
3.
Development of new policies and mechanisms for the management of human resources 
in the MDC’s health sector including draft proposals for reforms of the labor laws as required.
4.
Assessment and development of proposals for reforming the production and/or control of 
drugs and medical supplies.
5.
Design of mechanisms to operationalize in the MDC reforms of the health sector, 
including the social security reform law.
6.
Carrying out of workshops with relevant stakeholders to exchange views on the 
proposals developed under 1 through 5 above.
Part E
:
Project Administration and Evaluation
Carrying out of: (a) yearly, mid-term, and impact evaluations of the Project; and (b) an 
Page  20
assessment of the yearly budgetary allocations required from the MHSD to sustain the scaling up 
of health programs in the MDC. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent or more each respectively.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
Page  21
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, and the following 
special provisions:
(a)
Estimates of the cost of goods to be supplied or works carried out shall not be 
published nor used as a basis for disqualification of bids.
(b)
Non-compliance by the Borrower of the deadline for award shall not invalidate 
the bidding.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works the term specified for submission of bids 
shall not be less than 30 days.
(d)
Any proposed amendments to the bidding documents shall be distributed by the 
Borrower to all bidders in due time for their consideration but not later than fifteen days prior to 
the bid submission date.
(e)
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of each bidder and 
the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they  have been requested or 
permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
(f)
The confidentiality of the parts of the bids so declared by the bidders in their 
respective bids shall be respected by the Borrower at all times.
(g)
The rights set forth in Article 28 of Law 296 shall not be restricted to bidders.
(h)
The bid for the procurement of specific goods and/or works shall not be 
fragmented or divided into different contracts at the time of bidding or award.
(i)
Bid awards shall all be published in a local newspaper, internet or other 
communication means acceptable to the Bank.
Page  22
(j)
Registration shall not be required from foreign bidders as a condition of 
submission of bids.
(k)
One valid bid shall be deemed sufficient to consider the award of the respective 
contract.
(l)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability and 
whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a manner acceptable to both the 
Borrower and the Bank.  Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents.  If any 
factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors, and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents.  For 
purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a 
factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including 
correction of arithmetic errors.
(m)
The provisions of Articles 13, 36 through 41 and 103 of Law 296 shall not apply.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
Page  23
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:
(a)
each contract procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 
hereof; and
(b)
the first two contracts for goods and works procured each year in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 hereof,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  24
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services for the delivery of training and workshops, and the design of education, 
information and communication campaigns shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the requirement of prequalification and 
selection on the basis of the price quoted.
2.
Individual Consultants
Specialized advisory services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate $1,000,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants selected by comparison of 
qualifications of at least three candidates and employed in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
Page  25
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of reference of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
