                                                 Document of
                                            The World Bank




                                                                                  Report No:ICR0000365




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IBRD-70620 JPN-26319)




                                               ON A LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                         BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                                   FOR A

              CARACAS METROPOLITAN HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT



                                              October 1, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Perú, República Bolivariana de Venezuela Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
 duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                      1

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             ( Exchange Rate Effective )
                             Currency Unit = Bolivar
                                        1.00 = US$ 0.000465
                                   US$ 1.00 = 2,150 Bs.


                                       Fiscal Year
                               January 1 ­ December 31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS       Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AM         Mayor of the Metropolitan District of Caracas (Alcalde Mayor)
BA         The Barrio Adentro Program
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DO         Development Objectives
FMT        Financial Management Team
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOV        Government of Venezuela
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDB/IADB   Inter-American Development Bank
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education, and Communication
IVSS       Venezuelan Institute of Social Security (Instituto Venezolano de Seguridad Social)
MDC        Metropolitan District of Caracas
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MSDS       Ministry of Health and Social Development (Ministerio de Salud y Desarrollo Social)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO       Pan-American Health Organization
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDVSA       Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (the state-owned oil company)
QSA        Quality of Supervision Assessment
STI        Sexually Transmitted Infections




                           Vice President: Pamela Cox

                         Country Director: Marcelo Giugale

                          Sector Manager: Keith E. Hansen

                     Project Team Leader: Carlos Marcelo Bortman




                                            2

                                        Venezuela
                    VE- CARACAS METROPOLITAN HEALTH



                                       CONTENTS




1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4. Outputs by Component
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
MAP




                                             3

1. Basic Information
                                                                      VE- CARACAS
Country:                Venezuela             Project Name:           METROPOLITAN
                                                                      HEALTH

Project ID:             P050495               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-70620,JPN-
                                                                      26319
ICR Date:               01/03/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 30.3M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 4.4M

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies

Unidad Coordinadora Proyecto Salud
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/21/2000          Effectiveness:     03/28/2002         03/28/2002
Appraisal:         05/08/2001       Restructuring(s):
Approval:          06/26/2001       Mid-term Review: 09/12/2005           10/17/2005
                                    Closing:           12/31/2006         12/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      MU
Risk to Development Outcome:                   S
Bank Performance:                              MS
Borrower Performance:                          MU


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   MU

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Unsatisfactory




                                             4

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             4                 4
Law and justice                                               1                 1
Health                                                       95                95
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                               Primary          Secondary
Law reform                                     Secondary        Secondary
Health system performance                      Primary          Primary
Access to urban services and housing           Primary          Primary
HIV/AIDS                                       Secondary        Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                       Positions                   At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                               Pamela Cox       David de Ferranti
Country Director:                             Marcelo Giugale  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                               Keith E. Hansen  Charles Griffin

Project Team Leader:                          Carlos Marcelo
                                              Bortman          Patricio Márquez

ICR Team Leader:                              Carlos Marcelo
                                              Bortman
ICR Primary Author:                           Jorge Barrientos




                                          5

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal
Economic Context

Over the last decades, the performance of the Venezuelan economy has been rather poor, largely
due to unproductive public sector investments, poor macroeconomic management and the
inability of economic policymakers to cope with oil cycles. In 2001, when the Project was being
appraised, despite a then relatively high oil price (above US$20 per barrel on average), the
consolidated non-financial public sector registered a deficit of about 6.4 percent of GDP, slightly
above the one in 1998 when the average oil price was about US$10 per barrel.

Shortly after taking office in 1999, the Chávez administration embarked on an ambitious agenda
of reforms in Venezuela. These new policies, which marked a departure from previous
governments, incorporated increased state intervention in many aspects of the economy, and also
opened the door to greater citizen participation in governance. Aspects of these new policies--
which were supported by a sizeable portion of the population--included an array of price and
exchange rate controls, direct government participation in the production and distribution of
goods and services, more governmental authority over public enterprises (in particular the state-
owned oil company, PDVSA), and a number of new initiatives to improve social outcomes for
Venezuela's poor.

The social programs implemented by the Chávez administration have had a clear focus on the
poor. Although outcome indicators are not available for many programs, there can be little
question that in areas such as education, health care, and urban living environment, Venezuela's
underprivileged have seen a dramatic increase in government support. However, the overall
economic results are less clear; Venezuela experienced a sharp economic downturn in 2003, due
to political strife and a strike in PDVSA. National income rebounded strongly starting in 2004,
driven in large measure by very high international oil prices and the recovery of oil production.
Growth in 2005 and 2006 remained strong, with a major share of the recovery relying on the non-
oil sector supported by the consumption boom resulting from higher government expenditure.
Despite this significant recovery, overall unemployment and informality remain at high levels,
and the relatively high budget deficits, despite historically high oil prices, fixed exchange rate and
high banking sector exposure to government debt represent a latent danger to macroeconomic
stability should oil prices fall.

Health Sector Context

Indicators of the health status of Venezuelans suggest that it continues to lag behind that of the
populations of countries with similar per capita income. This situation is due in part to
Venezuela's relatively low levels and unusually high fluctuations in public expenditures on
health, and to numerous inefficiencies and inequities in the health system. By the time the Project
was appraised, the health system was suffering from significant gaps in the area of public health
interventions, had an unusual level of fragmentation and duplication of medical care services, was
undergoing an incomplete and imperfect decentralization process, often poorly managed, and it
had been unsuccessful for reaching the poor. Most of these issues continued to affect the health
sector during Project implementation. It was only during the last three years, that the
Government of Venezuela (GOV) made an attempt to increase coverage, reaching the poor, by
launching the "Barrio Adentro" program (BA). However, the BA program started with little
coordination with other primary health services and without a well defined referral system.



                                                  6

A significant proportion of Venezuela's health resources are concentrated in the capital city of
Caracas, yet the Metropolitan District of Caracas (MDC) suffers, perhaps more than other
regions, many problems of inefficiency and inequity. Health care in the MDC is generally
provider oriented, curative rather than preventive in nature, impersonal, fragmented, and of low
quality. The 17 hospitals in the MDC work without coordination with approximately 150 health
centers scattered in the marginal urban areas. The ambulatory centers are small facilities, most of
which are in poor physical condition and have insufficient and outdated medical and support
equipment. The majority of the ambulatory centers provide general medical consultations and
pediatric and basic trauma care; some offer gynecology and obstetrics services, and some dental
care services. Very few have a small laboratory for basic diagnostic tests, with limited personnel
and medical supplies. Physicians and nurses have little knowledge of community health
problems, including risk factors associated with common illnesses and with emerging public
health problems.

Late in 2003, with cooperation from the Cuban government, the Chávez administration launched
the BA program aimed at providing basic health care in low income areas in the main cities.
Facilities were established with Cuban professionals and supplies. Little information is available
on the outcome of this program, but there is some degree of consensus that it has expanded the
supply of basic services, particularly to the poorest strata of the population in urban areas,
including Caracas. Lately, efforts are being made to improve coordination with other service
providers.

Political context

After a failed attempt by the Pérez administration (1989-93) to redefine the private and public
sector roles and to reorient the economy toward market-led growth stalled in 1992, an interim
administration followed without well defined objectives and lacked coherent economic programs.
In 1994, President Caldera took office immediately after a deep systemic financial crisis. Partly
in response to this crisis, unorthodox economic policies were adopted, including a wide range of
price and exchange controls. These measures, together with the financial crisis, brought the
economy to the brink of collapse by the end of 1995. By that time, the experiment was reversed
with more market-oriented policies, including abandoning price and exchange controls and
opening the oil sector to private investment. This approach brought rampant inflation and
currency decline. The program became unsustainable when the bloated public sector resisted
further reforms and the government reversed previous wage policies. It was against this
background, that Venezuelans expressed their dissatisfaction with the failure of past
governments by electing Hugo Chávez in December 1998 with the largest margin in 40 years.
The sweeping electoral victory gave President Chávez a mandate to change radically from past
policies and to focus his administration on political, social, institutional and economic reforms
that had not been previously considered. This fundamental break with the policies of past
governments led to a situation of great uncertainty and political polarization.

Mr. Chávez used the initial stages of his administration to make deep institutional changes. These
have included adopting a new Constitution and, within this new framework, changing more than
one hundred laws. By mid-2000, a new Constitution had been put in place and the long process
to define the new legal framework had started, including the re-election of all officials and Mr.
Chávez for a new, six-year, term. At that point, in response to social pressures and high levels of
unemployment, the President increased the focus of his administration on socioeconomic reforms.
The social and economic objectives of the Chávez government largely focused on the reduction
of poverty and inequality, as well as the provision of education and health services for the poor.



                                                  7

During the first years of the administration, the authorities promoted a state-led growth model
with strong public sector intervention in the provision of goods and services, including the
development of government-sponsored communities that called for the relocation of the poor
from urban slums. Opposition movements started to emerge in 2001, including many of the
government's former supporters, business leaders, labor unions, and some members of the
Catholic Church. Opposition to different aspects of this model, aggravated by strikes in Petróleos
de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), generated a conflict that escalated into an attempt to take over the
government on April 2002. Civil unrest continued during the next thirty months leading to a
referendum to revoke President Chávez term, that took place in August 2004. The favorable
outcome strengthened the power base for the government, which consolidated its approach for a
larger role for the public sector on a wide range of social and economic aspects. In late 2006, Mr.
Chávez was eventually reelected, with over 60% of the vote, for another six year period.


Rationale for Bank assistance


The Project was consistent with the prevailing interim Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
emphasized improving access to and quality of health care services for the poor. It was also
focused on enhancing sustainable growth with stability; promoting social development; and
modernizing the public sector. The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services Project (the Project)
was designed to support all three of these goals, to varying degrees. It was seeking to promote
economic growth and social development in the long term by improving health status of the poor
via the provision of more accessible, equitable, and good quality health services. Additionally, it
was designed to contribute to the modernization of the public sector by supporting the
decentralization process of the MDC health system.

Project design was also consistent with a poverty report on Venezuela, prepared by the Bank in
March 2001, Investing in Human Capital for Growth, Prosperity, and Poverty Reduction. This
report called for several measures to address two key problems: (i) great inequity in access to
health services and the distribution of resources, and (ii) inefficiency and a lack of coordination
among institutions providing health services. The poverty report acknowledged that Bank
involvement could become a conduit for exchange of international experience and exposure to
best practices, and would continue to provide the country counterpart team with access to relevant
international experience in health sector development. Project design fit well into the objectives
highlighted by the poverty report and it sought to make use of the Bank experience with
decentralizing health systems.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project's development objectives were:
    · to expand access to and improve the quality and efficiency of ambulatory care services,
         including the outpatient services of hospitals, for poor people living in selected parishes
         and municipalities of the MDC;
    · to improve the management of the health care system and support the decentralization
         process in the health system of the MDC; and,
    · to develop HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies and activities in the MDC.

The Project was also expected to contribute in the medium-term to the improvement of the health
status of the most vulnerable population in the MDC. The Project followed up on some activities
of a previously closed Project, the Health Services Reform Project (3823-VE) and the Endemic



                                                  8

Diseases Control Project (3538-VE).

Key indicators for the Project included (i) the coverage of better quality ambulatory
services for the poor population of the MDC, quality and efficiency of health services
provided, management and civil society participation; (ii) strategies and activities for
HIV/AIDS prevention implemented; and (iii) legal and organizational instruments and
models implemented.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

PDO and key indicators were not revised

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The universe of potential beneficiaries was estimated at 2.4 million persons, representing 70% of
the total population of the MDC and 11% of the population of Venezuela. Most beneficiaries
were expected to come from low income groups living in Caracas. Beneficiaries would receive
health care services capable of resolving most clinical and surgical problems either at ambulatory
facilities, or by referral, at hospital facilities. It was designed to develop an integrated system of
community health, preventive, family medical and surgical care, and including endemic and
environmental control through community participation and inter-institutional coordination.



6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Strengthening Health Care Networks (Total Cost US$ 44.07 million).
Under this component, the Project supported: (i) the delivery of a comprehensive health care
program targeted at the vulnerable population of the MDC by supporting the development of a
new health care model, emphasizing the organization in networks of existing ambulatory centers,
pre-hospital emergency medical care services (ambulance system, communication system, and
paramedic teams), and outpatient departments of hospitals, in each of the selected districts and
municipalities of MDC; and (ii) the improvement of the diagnostic, treatment, and medical waste
management capacity of network facilities to provide appropriate and timely quality health care
on an ambulatory and inpatient basis. Under this component subprojects would be financed for
the rehabilitation and/or construction of physical infrastructure, and providing equipment,
communication systems and ambulances for patient referral and emergency care. It would also
support the training of health personnel, education and communication activities, and provide
technical assistance for the improvement of supply systems, and the development of maintenance
systems for physical infrastructure and equipment.

Component 2: Institutional Development (Total Cost US$ 6.84 million).
To ensure the virtual integration of health facilities into networks and efficient and effective
delivery of a comprehensive health care program, the Project supported under this component the
institutional modernization of health networks. It was seeking to: (i) implement new resource
allocation mechanisms, developed under a previous Project, to promote allocative and technical
efficiency; (ii) develop accounting, budgeting, contracting, billing and collection systems,
including cost recovery from financial intermediaries; (iii) develop managerial protocols for
strategic planning, human resources development and management, supplies and installations;



                                                       9

(iv) develop clinical protocols to support performance improvement, quality assurance; the
revision and updating of the existing norms and guidelines for the handling and disposal of
medical waste in health care facilities; and measurement of outcomes and user satisfaction, and
management and continued education programs; and (v) reengineer processes, including the
development of minimum accreditation standards, procedures and services in ambulatory and
type II hospital networks. The Project financed institutional development subprojects that
provided technical assistance, training and systems development to modernize health care
organization and management structures and practices, including management information,
health care financing and quality assurance systems, and human resources development.

Component 3: Development of Strategies and Activities for HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control in the MDC (Total Cost US$ 2.74 million).
This component supported the formulation and implementation of prevention and control
strategies and activities for HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI). It included: (i)
information, education, and communication campaigns to raise awareness and change behavior to
reduce HIV/AIDS and STI transmission, particularly among high-risk groups; (ii) development
of a second generation HIV surveillance system in the MSDS; (iii) development of an
information system for the control and follow up of HIV/AIDS patients; (iv) training of health
personnel; and (v) supply of equipment for two HIV/AIDS diagnostic centers.

Component 4: Development of Legal and Organizational Instruments and Models in the
MDC (Total Cost US$0.80).
The Project would finance technical assistance and activities to support health sector reform
efforts at the MDC. The basic aim was to cover issues that might affect the health services
network modernization objectives in the MDC, and those that could facilitate the definition of
new institutional roles. More specifically, it attempted to: (i) develop a legal framework to
support greater autonomy of district and municipal health directorates and service providers; (ii)
develop new governance models such as foundations, allowing local authorities and communities
to share greater responsibility for the management of the ambulatory care and hospital networks;
(iii) adjust existing norms and regulations governing health organization and managerial
arrangements; (iv) develop and process the approval of legal instruments for establishing
decentralized and unitary health care organizational arrangements; (v) design new policies and
mechanisms for managing human resources; (vi) carry out assessments and develop proposals for
reforming the supply of drugs and other medical supplies; and (vii) design instruments to help
make operational new health reform legislation, including the social security reform law.

Component 5: Project Administration and Evaluation (Total Cost US$ 5.54 million)
This component financed project management, monitoring, supervision and impact evaluation at
the different levels of the system for the Project.

6.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised during implementation.

6.7 Other significant changes

Due to extremely slow progress in implementation during the first three years, the government
requested a cancellation of US$11.86 million (39% of loan amount) in early 2005. Another
US$12.3 million were cancelled in early 2006 in response to another government request. Both
cancellations, de facto reduced the Project's scope by about eighty percent affecting



                                                  10

achievements in all Project components, with the exception of the HIV/AIDS component.



7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project can be considered adequately designed with clear and well defined overall
objectives. It was based on the positive experience gained during execution of a previous Project
­ the Health Services Reform Project ­ which was focused on the implementation of integrated
health care models in four states. The positive experience in the Aragua state was particularly
relevant, since it had been led by the newly appointed Minister of Health (Dr. Rodriguez Ochoa),
who enthusiastically sponsored the Project. However, there was little specific design work done
during preparation which led to the Project having a flexible structure, where many aspects were
left to be decided over the course of implementation. The uncertain political climate was indeed
a key consideration when opting for this approach. However, this design feature eventually
backfired during early stages of implementation, when activities had to focus on preparing these
designs and making an assessment of investments needed for improving facilities. Since many
political actors were involved, with some of them from the opposition to the Chávez
administration, this design process was trapped in the political climate prevailing at the time.
Although technical teams had agreed on key design aspects, allocation of resources and control
of project activities became an insurmountable obstacle. Additionally, the flexible design
approach turned out to be a liability in the Venezuelan political context as it precluded the Bank
from having an instrument to exert leverage.

Monitoring indicators were defined at appraisal and a base line established by external
consultants. However, it appears that there was no borrower ownership of this process leading to
a successful design and implementation of systems needed for an effective monitoring of Project
outcomes.

Project risks were well identified but their assessment and mitigating measures were not
successful in the political context that followed during implementation. In particular,
coordinating the number of key actors involved, including the Ministry of Health and Social
Development (MSDS), the Ministry of Planning, one state government (Miranda), the Caracas
umbrella municipality ­ "Alcalde Mayor" (AM) and the five municipalities involved (Libertador,
Sucre, Baruta, Chacao and El Hatillo), became an impossible coordination task. As mentioned
earlier, the tensions that took place among these actors within the political context, from early
2002 to mid 2004, stalled Project implementation and led the MSDS to abandon practically the
decentralization approach.

7.2 Implementation

There was practically no progress in Project implementation during the first three years (2002-
2004). By the end of 2004 only about three percent of the loan amount had been disbursed. This
was largely due to the difficulties mentioned earlier for reaching consensus among the different
actors involved, in defining roles, responsibilities and for agreeing on priorities and a modus
operandi for implementing the Project. The political climate prevailing during that period was
not conducive to a favorable environment for carrying out a meaningful dialogue. The main
reason for this was that some key actors - the AM and three of the five municipalities ­ were in
the political opposition to the Government. Additionally, GOV opted for using its own



                                                  11

resources to finance several items originally included under Project components, while other
Project activities were postponed. It should be noted however, that the GOV is well aware that
the Project's objectives remain valid, and that it badly needs to improve coverage and quality of
health services in the MDC.

By late 2004, the Government had gained considerable strength after the outcome of the
referendum to revoke the presidential term and the MSDS took absolute control over the Project.
A new implementation plan was agreed and the GOV requested the first partial cancellation of
loan funds. By that time the BA program was well under implementation. Since the program's
basic aim was to expand coverage, creating a network of ambulatory services in the low income
neighborhoods of Caracas and other major cities, its objective was highly coincident with one of
the Project's DO. From the start, the BA program was highly resisted by the health sector
community and the political environment made it impossible to agree on a referral system to
support the basic care provided under the program. When the political climate cooled off after
the August 2004 referendum, the Bank saw the BA program as an opportunity for improving
implementation. Additionally, the Project's objectives and description were sufficiently broad,
allowing the Bank to support those activities, which the Government selected for financing,
without the need to restructure the Project. After a careful assessment, the Bank agreed to
finance, under the Project, the design of protocols, training programs and some infrastructure and
equipment for ambulatory centers under the BA program.

A Quality Supervision Assessment (QSA) was conducted during 2006. The QSA acknowledged
that, notwithstanding the supervision team efforts to resolve implementation problems, the
political environment had created highly unfavorable conditions for an adequate implementation.
The QSA report raised the issue of whether the Project should have been restructured, since it
was highly unlikely that, under the prevailing climate, the Project's DO were going to be
achieved. On the other hand, and given the difficulties in country dialogue that occurred during
the latter part of Project implementation, the Bank had opted for using the Project as one of the
few channels available for trying to maintain a dialogue with the Government. Instead of
entering into a complex negotiation process under a difficult climate for restructuring the Project,
the Bank opted for a supervision strategy focused on supporting those activities within the
Project for which the Government had requested support, and on suggesting that the Government
cancel remaining loan funds that were not going to be required. Moreover, the GOV had given
clear signals that it did not wish to seek an extension of the closing date beyond the original date
of December 31, 2006. Eventually, cancellation took place in two stages. The first one took
place in April 2005 and the second one in late June 2006, and the loan was closed on the original
closing date.

Implementation improved considerably during the last two years and relative progress was
achieved for expanding coverage in low income areas through the construction of 26 new health
centers for the BA program and the rehabilitation of another 8 existing centers. It also provided
the equipment needed for operating these centers. Additionally, it made modest progress for
improving the quality of health services provided by constructing an ambulatory surgery system,
rehabilitating a reference clinic to support primary care centers and by supplying communication
and information equipment for emergency services. It also achieved consensus among local
practitioners on the importance to strengthen referral systems in an integrated manner and to start
developing programs to address these issues.

It should be noted that, notwithstanding the difficulties described above, the HIV/AIDS
component was implemented relatively smoothly and practically all activities originally foreseen



                                                  12

were completed satisfactorily.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was responsible for Project monitoring and evaluation,
with support from the MDC health agencies. Progress reports were set up to monitor Project
implementation results and expenditures. A set of monitoring indicators was designed to assess
periodically progress towards meeting outcomes regarding coverage and quality of services
provided. A baseline survey was conducted during Project preparation, to collect information on
MDC's epidemiological and health services delivery aspects. However, the PCU failed to
implement these designs and activities were not monitored regularly nor were progress reports
issued regularly. Some monitoring indicators were only reported in the Borrower's completion
report.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Although the Project experienced problems and failed to achieve planned disbursement levels,
the main causes were not related to poor procurement management. There was a high turn over
of procurement staff in the PCU precisely when progress was picking up during 2005. This
resulted in delays due to lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines. Several training missions had
to be fielded to correct this shortcoming. However, there is ample evidence that the procurement
activities were satisfactory and the agreed guidelines and procedures were complied with.

The level of financial management supervision was adequate for the low level of Project activity.
The Financial Management Team (FMT) participated in one mission in February 2005 and
produced a detailed report with a number of recommendations. The audit reports raised issues of
internal control which were in turn raised with the Project team. Although, there was little follow
up, none of them were likely to have had a material impact on the Project's financial
management.

All construction and rehabilitation of facilities financed by the Project complied with
environmental guidelines, particularly regarding disposal of medical waste.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The GOV has emphasized that expanding access to health care services continues to be a priority.
Consequently, it intends to carry on with its strategy consolidating the first phase of the BA
program and it has launched a second phase establishing diagnostic, rehabilitation and high
technology centers to provide support to ambulatory services. Subsequently, it plans to refurbish
the hospital networks with the aim of setting up a fully integrated system. This strategy also
includes a comprehensive training program to eventually replace the Cuban staff in the BA
program over the next few years.

The plan also includes strengthening of horizontal coordination with other ambulatory centers
and establishing a referral system with other health care providers. Budgetary allocations for the
health sector are expected to increase substantially, reaching about 6 percent of GDP by 2008.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation



                                                  13

The objectives established for the Project were well in line with efforts to address the most
critical health sector issues identified during appraisal. These were well founded on the Bank
sector experience gained through years of involvement in analytical work and projects financed.
The GOV has acknowledged that the stated objectives remain relevant at present and the strategy
outlined in 7.5 above has been designed to continue to address prevailing issues.

There is, however, one aspect of the Project's design that lost its relevance under the present
circumstances. The GOV changed it emphasis related to the decentralization process and, today,
its preference is for using a more centralized approach towards the provision of health services
through the MSDS, the Venezuelan Institute of Social Services (IVSS) and the BA program.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Government had a much wider program in the MDC and it is difficult to isolate the effect of
the Project. Well founded information on actual coverage levels is not available, but rough
estimates indicate that there was an expansion of over one million persons in the low income
areas of Caracas. The BA program managed its own information system and statistics were not
readily available to the MSDS. Also, the BA used different definitions for measuring services
provided and it was not possible to consolidate the statistics reported annually with the official
MSDS statistical data base. In any case, it is widely accepted by the health sector community
that the BA program has improved coverage in low income areas. The Project's contribution to
this increase in coverage was marginal since it only covered about ten percent of the new
ambulatory centers opened during the Project's life. Rough estimates indicate that the overall
coverage expansion has reached about 2 million poor people, short of the target of 2.4 million
established at appraisal.

There was modest progress on improving efficiency and quality of services. A protocol,
designed under the Project, was established for the BA program and some training took place for
staff in the MDC on new approaches for providing health services. Also, a survey was conducted
on coordination of practices among service providers in the MDC, but there was no follow up for
modifying practices leading to the implementation of a new health care model emphasizing the
organization in networks of providers. Also, there was minimal improvement in the management
of the health care system in the MDC mostly related to the implementation of new information
and communication systems for emergency care.

There were important achievements on the development of HIV-AIDS prevention and control
strategies and activities in the MDC. An epidemiological surveillance system of second
generation was designed and it is under implementation. Additionally, campaigns were
developed to raise awareness among the population including posters and advertisements in
metro stations. Also, a training program for health sector staff was carried out under the Project.

8.3 Efficiency

Given the modest overall outcome of the Project, it was considered of no added value to update
the cost/benefit analysis. At appraisal, Project management costs were estimated at US$3.1
million representing 5.1 per cent of the estimated total Project costs. Given the low level of
implementation, total Project costs were only 16 percent of those originally estimated. The
consequence was that, although Project management costs were substantially reduced at about 45
percent of the original estimate (US$1.4 million), they ended up representing about 14.5 percent


                                                  14

of total Project costs. It should be noted, however, that several activities originally included in
the Project's scope were implemented by the same PCU with other financial resources not
recorded in the actual Project costs.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: MU
As discussed in 8.2 above, the Project had a poor achievement of the DO established at appraisal.
It had only a marginal contribution to expanding coverage in low income areas of the MDC.
Regarding outcomes for Project components, the results were modest. Some primary care and
hospital facilities were upgraded by improving infrastructure and providing equipments.
Additionally, some 25 ambulatory centers for the BA program were financed and equipped under
the Project. Also, participatory schemes and a new protocol for BA and for emergency situations
due to disasters were implemented under the Project. The major contribution to outcomes was
achieved by developing a new surveillance system, rehabilitating two outpatient centers, and
carrying out training programs and dissemination campaigns for the HIV/AIDS component.
Very little was achieved under the component aimed at the development of legal and
organization instruments and models for the MDC.
Consequently, the performance rating on outcomes is set at Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

    N/A


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

    N/A


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

    N/A

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
     N/A


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: S
  As noted earlier, the GOV has made a substantial effort to expand access to primary health care
services under the BA program and by and large reached, through a parallel program, the target
set for the Project. The GOV is currently starting to implement a plan to consolidate this phase
and to establish a referral system strengthening secondary and tertiary systems. There are,
however, two risks to this outcome. The BA program has been mainly staffed with Cuban
personnel and it is unclear how long this effort can be maintained and whether the GOV would
be capable of replacing this staff with Venezuelan personnel in due course. Moreover, should
conditions change it is highly likely that the program would be dismantled. For these reasons,
the risk to development outcome is rated Substantial (S).



                                                 15

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: MS

It has been acknowledged, both by the GOV and the QSA, that the Project design was well
thought for addressing problems affecting the health system in the MDC. It was basically
founded on the experience gained under the Health Services Reform Project, which had
implemented, successfully, critical reforms in the provision of health services at the state level.
The Project also provided a critical instrument for achieving some of the objectives established in
the interim CAS, under a scenario of a quite reduced lending program.

However, some shortcomings remain: (i) although sector issues were well identified, the lack of
more design work during preparation affected progress during early implementation; (ii) the
flexible design used did not provide the Bank with sufficient leverage for addressing the
implementation issues that arose later, leaving too much margin for discussions; and (iii) although
Project risks were properly identified during appraisal, the mitigation factors were not adequate
for addressing the difficulties that led to a considerable reduction in scope jeopardizing the
achievement of the DO and key outcomes for most components. The Bank performance for
ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS).


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating:MU

The QSA came to the conclusion that if the Bank decided to pursue the Project's original
objectives, in spite of the difficult environment, a formal Project restructuring should have been
done. It felt that canceling about 80% of the loan's proceeds without changing the DOs doomed
the Project to failure. It argued that the lack of GOV support for the Project was evident from the
outset and Bank missions received little cooperation as illustrated by long waits for missions to be
approved. It concluded that the Bank should have considered three possible actions: (i)
restructuring of Project components/activities; (ii) reassessment of the DO; and (iii) partial
cancellation of funds. The QSA states that the Bank failed "to be more actively involved, to give
stronger advice and mentoring, and to insist on clear documentation, [all of which] contributed to
the less than adequate supervision of the Project". Consequently, the QSA rated the quality of
supervision as Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).

On the other hand, supervision missions made a considerable effort to address issues preventing
progress under a difficult environment. Under this scenario, restructuring was not considered a
valid option since the dialogue with the borrower was not fluid, and Project design was
sufficiently flexible to accommodate a wide range of changes without amending the Loan
Agreement. Instead, the Bank opted for a strategy that refocused implementation during the last
two years, supporting those areas where the GOV was requesting Bank assistance, particularly
the BA program, and suggesting to the GOV to request cancellation of funds not required. Given
the experience of the last two years, the Project would have had a better chance for a substantial
achievement of the DO if implementation would have been extended by one or two years. [But
the GOV did not want to consider requesting an extension of the closing date]. This Project did
provide the Bank an instrument to keep the country dialogue open during its implementation.



                                                   16

However, under these circumstances, the supervision team could have recorded explicitly in its
reports that an unsatisfactory Project was maintained in the portfolio purely for reasons related to
country relations.

The Quality of Bank Supervision is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: MS

Given the reasons stated above for the rating given to the Bank Performance for design and
supervision, and because supervision took on a lot of weight given the changed environment the
overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: MU

The main factors that precluded the GOV from achieving an acceptable performance were, in the
first place, the lack of political support to the Project shortly after implementation begun.
Supervision missions were continuously delayed and the environment became diffucult at times.
Furthermore, several agreed initiatives, between the MSDS' technical staff and the municipalities,
could not be implemented because authorities failed to provide the needed support. Additionally,
the GOV was unable, or unwilling, to resolve satisfactorily the difficulties faced with the
participating municipalities for implementing the Project as designed. Moreover, the GOV made
a shift in priorities during Project implementation, moving away from a decentralization policy
previously adopted. This last factor seriously affected the Project, since a key design feature was
based on delivering, on a decentralized manner, a comprehensive health care program through
organizing networks of ambulatory centers, emergency services and outpatient departments of
hospitals in the MDC.

Secondly, additional time would have enabled making substantial progress towards achieving the
Project's objectives and outcomes originally foreseen, since common grounds had been found to
complete its implementation. Lastly, a high turnover of staff in the PCU and insufficient
budgetary allocations and disbursement ceilings were constraints to a better Project
implementation, particularly during the last two years. . .

All these factors lead to rate the government performance as Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).


(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: MU

Implementing
Agency              Performance

                    Initially, the PCU started to work well with the municipalities involved.

Unidad              Criteria was agreed for designing schemes that would have led to an

Coordinadora        improvement in the efficiency and quality of services provided through the

Proyecto Salud      establishment of a network of providers operating with a well coordinated
                    approach. However, when issues related to resource allocation and
                    implementation procedures derived in a complex struggle between MSDS and



                                                   17

                   participating municipalities, the PCU lacked the leadership and political ability,
                   or will, required to deal with them. As a consequence, protracted negotiations
                   took place that led to a complete halt in Project activities. The only aspect that
                   was implemented in a satisfactory manner was the component dealing with
                   developing strategies and practices for HIV/AIDS prevention and control. It
                   would appear that the GOV supported these strategies and practices because it
                   did not have an alternative program to deal with these issues.

                   For these reasons, the performance of the Implementing Agency is rated
                   Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: MU

Since both the Government and the Implementing Agency performance received the same rating,
the overall rating is also Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).

11. Lessons Learned

An adequate political climate is crucial for Project success when there are many actors
involved, particularly in a decentralization process. Although the Project had a good start
mobilizing resources and support from the municipalities involved in developing a decentralized
system, further steps for implementing it were stalled by a mix of different approaches to
resource allocations, but most importantly by the political climate that took place in Venezuela
during most of the 2002-04 period. Three of the mayors from participating municipalities and
the MDC major were from the political opposition to the Chávez administration. Different
positions on how to implement a decentralized program became insurmountable and the Project
suffered from this struggle, leading to a sizable reduction in Project scope. Although the
participation of many political actors was acknowledged during appraisal as an important risk
factor, it was not possible to have foreseen that the political environment would make it
impossible to implement a decentralized scheme as originally conceived.

When supporting a decentralization process, Project implementation is best placed as low
as possible within the available institutional structure. When this Project was appraised, the
MSDS was meant to focus on taking a regulatory role and creating a new resource allocation
mechanism. The provision of health services would be decentralized implementing a new health
care model, emphasizing the organization of networks of service providers in the public sector.
There were five autonomous municipalities involved, four of which were within the Miranda
state which also had a role of its own within the health sector under the Venezuelan federal
system. A recent reform had created the AM as an umbrella organization to play a coordinating
role for autonomous municipalities within the city of Caracas (the MDC). At one point during
Project implementation, it was proposed that the Project could be managed by the AM structure,
since it was well in line with its coordinating role. Although the AM was eager to assume this
role, the MSDS strongly opposed the proposal and eventually retained Project management. In
retrospect, this would have been a better approach for implementing the Project since it was
much closer to the municipalities and it fitted very well with the very nature of the AM.
However, it lacked political support when it was proposed and the idea was abandoned. By that
time, the GOV had a established a clear preference for a more centralized approach.

What can or should the Bank do when a country environment jeopardizes Project


                                                  18

implementation? A poorly performing Project was used, to a great extent, as a vehicle to keep
the country dialogue open. But this approach raised the issue of sacrificing the achievement of
the Project's DO for a broader objective not related to Project performance. Assuming that the
Government had lost interest in implementing the Project as originally conceived, the other
option available was canceling. But such an approach would, most likely, have deteriorated even
further the country dialogue. Whenever such a strategy is used, for valid reasons, it would be
useful to make it explicit by regional management, and to record it as such in the Project files.



12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's unedited evaluation report is attached in Annex 8.


(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
   N/A




                                                19

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objectives of the Project are:
    · expand the access to and improve the quality and efficiency of ambulatory care services,
        including the outpatient services of hospitals, for 2.4 million poor people living in
        selected parishes and municipalities of the MDC;
    · improve the management of the health care system and support the decentralization
        process in the health system of the MDC; and,
    · develop HIV/AIDS prevention and control strategies and activities in the MDC.

The Project is expected to contribute in the medium-term to the improvement of the health status
of the most vulnerable population in the MDC. The Caracas Metropolitan Health Services
Project followed up on some activities of the Health Services Reform Project (3823-VE) and the
Endemic Diseases Control Project (3538-VE)


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

    N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                           Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from            Revised           Achieved at
                                              approval             Target          Completion or
                                             documents)            Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Increased coverage of health services for 2.4 million poor in the metropolitan
               district of Caracas
Value
(quantitative  1 million                2.4 million                             About 2.0 million
or                                                                              (rough estimate)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2001                12/15/2006
               There is not a reliable estimate for this indicator for the total coverage in the
Comments       MDC. There is however, ample consensus among the health sector community
(incl. %       that coverage has increased substantially. It should be noted that the Project only
achievement) contributed to about ten percent of the increase in coverage.

Indicator 2 : Adoption of policies and strategies for preventing and controlling HIV/AIDS.
Value          Not clear policies and
(quantitative strategies for            Policies and                            Policies and
or             preventing and           strategies                              strategies established
Qualitative)   controlling HIV/AIDS     established

Date achieved 06/26/2001
Comments       A sound strategy was adopted including the establishment of an improved
(incl. %       surveillance system, improved equipment for control centers, a dissemination
achievement) campaign and training of health staff.


                                                 20

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



   Indicator    Baseline  Original Target Values      Formally        Actual Value Achieved

                 Value        (from approval       Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                documents)              Values                Years
Indicator 1 :   No intermediate outcome indicators were prepared for the Project.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                            21

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     22

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                               Appraisal
                 Components                  Estimate (USD Estimate
                                                            Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                                  M)               (USD M)   Appraisal

STRENGTHENING OF HEALTH CARE
NETWORKS                                             44.07

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                             6.89
DEVELOPMENT OF STRATEGIES AND
ACTIVITIES FOR HIV/AIDS PREVENTION                    2.74
AND CONTROL IN THE MDC
DEVELOPMENT OF LEGAL AND
ORGANIZATIONAL INSTRUMENTS AND                        0.80
MODELS IN THE MDC
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND
EVALUATION                                            5.54

                          Total Baseline Cost        60.00            8.49       14.15%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                          Total Project Costs        60.00
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD                                     .30            0.30       100.00
                    Total Financing Required         60.30            8.79       14.58%



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal
         Source of Funds             Type of                  Actual/Latest  Percentage
                                  Cofinancing    Estimate
                                                 (USD M)   Estimate (USD M) of Appraisal

  Borrower                                            30.00             4.43     14.76%
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                    30.30            4.36      14.38%
DEVELOPMENT


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           23

24

Annex 4. Outputs by Component
        Component                          Indicator                        Latest Estimate (2006)
  Strengthening of Health     · % of women, in reproductive age,                       92.4 %
      Care Networks             who use contraceptive methods
                              · % of children (under 1 year)                           98 .4%
                                immunized against measles
                              · % of total population with medical                     52.5%
                                consultations
                              · % of fertile age women assessed for                    76.6%
                                cervix cancer
                              · % of pre-school age children                           82.7%
                                attending healthy child controls
                              · % of TBC patients treated                              21.0%
                              · Ratio of prenatal care visits to no. of
                                pregnant women under control                            1.3

                              · % of pregnant women having
                                prenatal controls during first 3 month                 29.8%

                              · % of women with postnatal control                      14.8%

                              · % of pregnant women with                               15.1%
                                HIV/AIDS test
                              · % of pregnant women with first dose                     32.7
                                of anti-tetanic shot
                              · % of TBC patients that give up                          1.0%
                                treatment
                              ·
Development of Strategies and · Ratio of total visits to first visits for    6.2 (average for 10 months)
  Activities for HIV/AIDS       HIV/AIDS patients in the Vargas

Prevention and Control in the   Hospital

           MDC




                                                25

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)
Given the modest overall outcome of the Project, it was considered of no added value to update
the cost/benefit analysis. Additionally, it was not possible to differentiate the Project's
contribution from other actions being implemented, notably the BA program. As mentioned in
8.2, it has not been possible to consolidate the statistical base used by the BA program with the
system used by the MDSD. Moreover, there are no reliable estimates of the actual costs incurred
by the BA program.




                                                  26

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Fernando Leonfanti     Consultant             LCSHH
Marcelo Amador
Osorio                 Consultant             LCSPT

Ana Pereda             Consultant             LCSHH


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                                   Actual Disbursements
        Archived              DO                     IP                 (USD M)
1   12/19/2001         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             0.22
2   06/11/2002         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             0.53
3   12/11/2002         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             0.67
4   06/17/2003         Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                           0.67
5   12/12/2003         Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                           0.67
6   06/03/2004         Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                           0.67
7   11/29/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             0.76

8   04/26/2005         Moderately           Moderately
                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory                               1.26

9   06/06/2005         Moderately           Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory                               1.38

10 11/22/2005          Moderately           Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                             3.05

11 10/27/2006          Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                           4.38


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                          4                 36.14
                    FY01                                        18                  89.95
                    FY02                                          1                  6.69
                    FY03                                                             0.00
                    FY04                                                             0.00
                    FY05                                                             0.00
                    FY06                                                             0.00



                                           27

                FY07                      0.00
                        Total:    23    132.78
Supervision/ICR
                FY00                      0.00
                FY01                      0.33
                FY02               7     48.19
                FY03               6     56.55
                FY04               8     49.04
                FY05               7     63.41
                FY06               6     46.71
                FY07               8     26.91
                        Total:    42    291.14




                            28

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank              Ratings          Borrower        Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                      MS        Government:           MU

Quality of Supervision:    MU         Implementing
                                      Agency/Agencies:      MU

Overall Bank                          Overall Borrower
Performance:               MU         Performance:          MU




                                     29

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project files in IRIS.




                                    52

