Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13276
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
JUNE 30, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currencv Equivalents
Currencv Unit: Sri Lanka Rupee iRs)
Si     =     Rs 26.5 (at appraisal)
Si     =     Rs 44.0 (at completion)
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric Svstem                            British/US Svstem
I  meter (m)                         -    3.281   feet
I  kilometer (kim)                   =    0.621   mile
I  ton                                    2 '.208   pounds
I  ton-km                            =    0.621   ton-mile
I  passenger-km (pass-km)            =    0.621   passenger-mile
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC           - Asphaltic Concrete
ADT          - Average Daily Traffic
DBST         - Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
GOSL         - Government of Sri Lanka
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IRR          - Internal Rate of Return
LCB          - Local Competitive Bidding
MTH          - Ministry of Transport and Highways
npv          - net present value
OCC          - Opportunity Cost of Capital
PCR          - Project Completion Report
PMMU         - Project Management and Monitoring Unit
RDA          - Road Development Authority
TCC          - Transport Coordinating Committee
TFA          - Technical and Financial Audit
VOC          - Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd          - vehicles per day
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Second Roads Project
(Loan 2517-CE)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Second Roads
Project (Loan 2517-CE)" prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department 3, of the South Asia Regional Office, with the
Borrower providing Part II.
The principal objective of the project was to improve the road network.
In addition, the institutional objectives sought to strengthen road maintenance
and planning.
Bank performance in preparation, appraisal and supervision left a great
deal to be desired.   Less than five staff weeks were spent and this was
insufficient to adequately identify, inspect, review the designs and estimate the
costs of the project components.  For example, the foundations for one major
bridge were not inspected below the water line and during construction it was
discovered that they were inadequate to carry the designed loads and had to be
replaced resulting in a cost overrun of 200% or $9.5 million.
The 1987 Bank Reorganization as well as the deteriorating security
situation in Sri Lanka halted the Bank's supervision for a year during 1987/88.
Moreover,  the capabilities of the Executing Agency were overestimated at
appraisal and the performance of consultants - who were to assist the Executing
Agency  - was disappointing, partly because of inadequate Terms of Reference.
Serious cost increases forced a considerable cutback in the civil works
program: only about half of the road and two-thirds of the bridge components
were implemented and, purchase of maintenance equipment and the training
component were cut back. The Government's financial contribution to the project
more than doubled to over $40 million. However, by concentrating on the highest
priority elements, implementation led to a good rate of return (33%) .  Some
capacity building also resulted from the experience. All loan covenants were
fully complied with.
Overall the project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely, and its institution development impact as modest.
The PCR's quality is satisfactory. No audit is being planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Itheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Table of Contents
i
Preface    ....................................................................
Evaluation Summary  .................................................ii
Objectives .i
Preparation, Appraisal and Implementation Experience .                                                                             ii
Project Results ...............................................  iii
Sustainability      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             iv
Findings and Lessons Learned ...                                                                                                  iv
P a rtI    . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . .      I
Project Identity  ...............................................                                                                I
Background   .................................................                                                                   1
Project Objectives and Description  ...................................                                                          2
Project Design, Preparation and Appraisal  ..............................                                                        3
Implementation.                                                                                                                  4
Project Results.                                                                                                                 6
Project Sustainability.                                                                                                          7
Bank Performance.                                                                                                                7
Borrower Performance.                                                                                                            8
Project Relationship.                                                                                                            9
Consulting Services ................................                                                                  ...   9
Project Documentation and Data .10
Part II   ..11
Introduction .11
Bank's Performance .12
Borrower's Performance .........................................  12
Lessons Learnt  ...............................................    14
T|his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Con't)
Part III ... .... .                                                                        16
1. Related World Bank Loans and Credits .16
2. Project Timetable . .17
3.  Loan   Disbursements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
4. Project Implementation          ..19
5. Project Costs    ..20
6. Project Financing           ..21
7. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .                     .21
8. Direct Benefits of Project        ..22
9. Project Studies    ..25
10. Compliance With Loan Covenants            ..26
11. Staff Inputs By Stage of Project         ..27
12. Mission Data By Project Stages           ..28
Appendix 1. Economic Re-evaluation .29
Map No. 18532R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Fretace
This is the Project Completion Report for the Second Roads Project in Sri Lanka. for which
Loan 2517-CE in the amount of $24.0 million was approved on April 16. 1985. The Loan was
closed on June 30, 1992 which was six months ahead of schedule. The entire loan amount was
disbursed and the final payment was made on September 14, 1990.
The PCR was prepared jointly bv the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division. South
Asia Country Department III (Preface. Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part 11) and is based. inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report: the Loan Agreement: supervision
reports: the Borrower's own records: correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower: and
internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Evaluation Summarv
')biectives
The objectives of the Second Roads Project were to lower vehicle operating costs on Sri
Lanka's deteriorated road network through a targeted investment program for priority road sections
and selected bridges. The loan also envisioned to strengthen the institutions concerned with transport
infrastructure in the areas of transport planning and coordination and road maintenance (para. 6).
The project's principal components included improving periodic maintenance of the trunk road
network and bridges (about 10,400 krns and several hundred structures), and the rehabilitation and/or
widening of about 570 kilometers of roads and 28 bridges. It also provided for workshop and
laboratorv equipment, training in bitumen emulsion technology, equipment fleet management and
technical assistance to strengthen contract management and administration (para. 7).
Preparation. A2pvraisal and Implementation Experience
The Second Roads Project was appraised in May 1983 and became effective in July 1985.
The Loan (2717-CE) was for $24.0 million, all of which was disbursed (Part III, Table 3).
Overall, the project suffered from three major weaknesses: (a) overestimating the capability of
the implementing agency to execute large contracts; (b) underestimating the cost of some physical
works, and (c) not using detailed designs for every contract. Regarding the implementing agency, the
Road Development Authority (RDA) was a relatively young and inexperienced organization and the
roles and duties assigned to the two expatriate engineering firms which were to assist RDA implement
the project were poorly planned (para. 11). As a result. RDA quickly developed project management
difficulties during implementation, supervision costs were almost 300 percent of the amount calculated
during appraisal and technical assistance was almost 150 percent over original estimates (Part III.
Table 8).
Concerning the physical works, road contracts ended up costing about 50 percent more than
that forecast at appraisal--despite eliminating from the project about one half of the kilometers to be
rehabilitated. These cost overruns were largely caused by the use of tender documents on one road
project that included only indicative, rather than detailed, drawings and that allowed RDA to bring
about design changes during implementation (paras. 17-19). In addition. it appears that Bank
examination of these tender documents was inadequate and that this also contributed to
implementation problems and cost increases. Bridge contracts ended up costing about 120 percent
more than the appraisal estimate even though eight of the planned 28 structures were dropped from
the project (two bridges were also added during implementation). One bridge in particular (Kalutaral
was responsible for most of the bridge cost overruns because of inadequate condition surveys during
the preliminary and final design phases (para. 15).



- iii -
Compounding implementation difficulties were (a) the Bank's 1987 re-organization which
resulted in an interruption of the normal supervision schedule. and (b) an ensuing deterioration in the
countrv's security situation which also temporarily halted any travel to Sri Lanka bv Bank staff.
By the time the Bank's re-organization was completed and the country's security situation
improved sufficiently to allow supervision missions to resume, implementation problems had
developed and the project was already significantly over budget. At this stage, both the Borrower and
Bank moved quickly to reduce its scope and redirect resources to complete those components that
remained. As a result, by early 1989 the project was generally back on track with more frequent
Bank supervision and increased attention from the Borrower (para. 22). The project subsequently
closed on June 30, 1992, which was six months ahead of schedule.
Project Results
As a result of the problems described above, the project did not fully achieve its objectives.
Only about half of the planned 300 km of roads were rehabilitated, only 20 out of 28 bridges were re-
constructed or widened (two were also added) and only Rs. 12.1 million out of an estimated Rs. 28.5
million was spent on equipment (see Part III, Table 8). Even with a reduced scope. project costs
were still approximately 70 percent over that budgeted at appraisal (Rs. 2.00 billion and Rs. 1.18
billion, respectively) (Part III, Table 8). Technical assistance to strengthen RDA capabilities in the
area of planned and routine maintenance did result in the establishment of District Offices to initiate
and oversee these activities, but was only marginally successful regarding their implementation (para.
27).
By concentrating its revised scope of work on some of the country's busiest roads and bridges,
and despite numerous and serious problems during implementation, the project did succeed to
maximize benefits in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs. As a result, the overall economic rate
of return (ERR) was still about 33 percent, versus an overall ERR of 82 percent estimated at
appraisal) (para. 24 and Appendix 1.
The project also served to tum the Ministry of Transportation and Highway's emphasis from
new construction to rehabilitation and maintenance and to building up its implementation capacity.
RDA is now more experienced in undertaking rehabilitation and maintenance work and has
significantly improved its performance in the areas of project and contract management.
The project also increased domestic contracting capacity through the provision of numerous
civil works to be completed using local competitive bidding and force account. Hence, the ongoing
Third Roads Project (Cr. 2183-CE) benefits from increased participation in rehabilitation contracts at
costs lower than would be possible using international firms.
The sector also benefited from the Transport Sector Planning Study financed by the project
and intended to strengthen transport institutions at the inter-ministerial level (para. 29). This was the
first study performed in the country that covered all transportation modes and it has become an
important policy paper for donors and the Government, as well being a useful reference document for
transport statistics.



- iv -
Sustainability
All of the project's contracts remaining after the reduction in scope were finished to
satisfactory engineering and construction standards. Therefore. these components' net benefits should
last throughout their expected economic lives (paras. 30 and 31). Most of the project's important
management lessons were learned through experience, but their sustainability appears to be strong as
is evidenced b',' RDA's enhanced and continuing awareness in the Third Roads Project concerning:
contract design; the differences between, and implications of. rehabilitation versus upgrading; contract
disputes and administration; and the need for adequate training of its senior staff.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from the project include (paras. 36, 37, 39 and 41):
It is important during appraisal to take the time necessary to ensure that institutional
arrangements are adequate to implement the project;
Accurate estimates of civil works costs require thorough inspections and condition surveys
during identification and appraisal--possibly through the use of a Project Preparation Facility
(or similar instrument);
Consultant engineers and economists preparing project designs and costs cannot be relied upon
to deliver appropriate and accurate products without a thorough review by the Bank and
Borrower;
When the implementing agency is inexperienced in dealing with international contractors and
large contracts, the supervisory role for the Bank substantially increases;
The use of standardized bidding documents should be mandated to limit bidding problems and
contractor claims; and
Technology transfer works best when counterpart staff are expressly assigned to the project
from its inception and continuity is assured.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Part I
Proiect Identitv
* Project Name ........... Second Roads Project
* Loan Number   ........... 2517-CE
* RVP Unit ...........  South Asia
* Countrv .Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
i Sector ...........  Transport
i Subsector ...........  Highways
Background
1.    Sri Lanka has a relatively extensive and well-developed road network which evolved during
the last century to service the island's plantations. Almost every part of the country is accessible by
road and the total system amounts to about 97,400 km, including some 30,750 km of paved roads.
The national trunk road network (Class A and B roads), under responsibility of the Road
Deveiopment Authority (RDA), consists of 10,440 km of paved roads, and amounts to approximately
10 percent of the total network. Responsibility for the other roads rests with the Provincial Councils
(16 percent), local governments (53 percent) and specialized agencies (21 percent). Road transport is
the countrv's major transportation mode. accounts for more than 82 percent of total freight
movements and carries about 85 percent of total passengers. Except for a small percentage of traffic
carried by sea, the balance of Sri Lanka's transportation needs is assumed by the railways.
2.    Development of an efficient transport sector in Sri Lanka has long been an objective of
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) policy and one which the Bank has encouraged. The
Government's overall objectives for the sector are to: (a) develop an integrated approach to
development of the transport system; (b) improve operation and management of major transport
modes: (c) accelerate completion of ongoing projects and programs; and (d) give priority only to
those programs using external financing which would help improve overall efficiency in the national
networks. From 1981 to 1989 which corresponds to the implementation period of the Second Roads
Project, the Government invested Rs 20.7 billion in the transport sector, of which Rs 6.0 billion (29
percent) was allocated to highwavs. However, in recent years the GOSL's emphasis on improving
road transport and its associated maintenance has increased. For example, and according to the
October 1992 Public Investment Program. the Government's 1992-96 highwav sector budget is



approximately Rs 16.8 billion, which represents 36 percent of the total transport budget--or seven
percent more than was allocated on average during the 1980s.
3.    The World Bank and IDA have been actively involved in the Sri Lanka roads sector for
almost 15 years and its projects emphasized maintenance, rehabilitation and technical assistance. The
first IDA credit for a highway project was approved by the Board in 1968, but it was subsequently
cancelled as the Government wanted to change the project approach and scope. The next operation
was in 1979, when IDA approved the first Road Maintenance Project (CR900-CE) (PCR No. 8000,
August 1989). In March 1980, IDA approved CR994-CE for the Road Passenger Transport Project
(PCR No. 8011, August 1989). The Second Roads Project was effective in July 1985, the Third
Roads Project (CR2183-CE) in February 1991. The Colombo Urban Transport Project (Cr. 2495-CE)
in August 1993 and the National Roads Project (8SRIPA1 18) is now under preparation.
4.    IDA credits in other sectors have also contained some road components. The Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (CR1883-CE) financed limited road reconstruction in
selected areas in the north and northeast which had been damaged during the country's civil unrest.
Also. under the Economic Restructuring Project (CR2128-CE), Government-owned bus operations are
in the process of being privatized to make them commercially viable. Bus fares also have been
deregulated and the National Transport Commission established with powers to enforce safety
standards to control operations of new or additional services.
5.    Although projects previous to the Second Roads Project produced mixed results, in retrospect
it is clear that they helped bring about fundamental policy and institutional changes and encouraged
the Governnent to formulate new solutions to transport problems. For example, RDA's operations
are better focused on maintenance and rehabilitation and away from new construction. Also as the
result of previous Bank projects, local contractors and consultants have been encouraged to enter the
road sector and it is expected that they will capitalize on this experience by competing for more
contracts. In this way, the Bank has helped to build the country's indigenous construction capacity
and lower RDA's overall outlays per kilometer for road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
6.    The Second Roads Project was designed to continue RDA's emphasis on planned maintenance
and rehabilitation as well as build technical and administrative capabilities in the Ministry of
Transport and Highways (MTH). Thus, the objectives of this project were to:
a.  to maximize economic return to the road sector by rehabilitating, improving drainage and
resealing surfaces to extend the economic life of the road network, and rehabilitating and
widening selected bridges;
b.  delaying where possible the need for road reconstruction through the establishment of,
and an increase in the capability for, planned and routine maintenance programs; and



c.  strengthen the institutions concerned with transport infrastructure in the following key
areas:
i.   transport coordination and planning at an inter-ministerial level: and
ii.   road maintenance planning, supervision and execution of the maintenance
program.
7.    The Second Roads Project included the following components:
a.  a programn of rehabilitation consisting of bituminous overlay on about 300 km of roads,
and surface resealing on about 270 km of roads;
b.  strengthening or rehabilitation of 28 bridges;
c.  provision of workshop equipment and tools and laboratory equipment to RDA;
d.  equipment and training for MTH's highway planning and highway maintenance
departments; and
e.  technical assistance to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Coordination and Planning of
Transport and its technical secretariat as well as to RDA for contract management and
implementation.
Proiect Design. Preparation and Appraisal
8.    By selective improvement of the highway system, the Second Roads Project was designed to
continue the progress made by the Road Passenger Transport Project in reducing the costs and delays
associated with inernal transport. Taking some lessons from this first project, the Second Roads
Project also was designed to strengthen the semi-autonomous governmental units of the MTH (RDA
and Technical and Financial Audit (TFA)) to speed implementation, achieve higher levels of domestic
expertise in this sector and assure better quality control and accountability of construction works.
9.    The project was innovative in its design by seeking to further develop the capacity of
indigenous road construction and consulting firmns. In this regard. resealing and overlay equipment
purchased under First Roads Project was made available for hire (at a rate schedule agreed to in
consultation with the Bank) to local firms wishing to bid on Second Roads Project contracts. It was
envisioned that this provision would allow local firms to become familiar with the operation of this
type of equipment and eventually purchase their own machines for use on MTH contracts.
10.   Because the Second Roads Project was to continue the First Roads Project's reduction in the
backlog of periodic maintenance that had grown during the 10 years the Bank was not active in the
sector (1969 to 1979), another innovative aspect of the project was the establishment of pilot RDA
district offices to improve routine and periodic maintenance operations. This included the provision
of limited, but essential, equipment for patching and compaction. as well as supporting force account
works supervised by these offices to avoid the long delays sometimes experienced under local and
international competitive bidding.



- 4 -
11.   One shortcoming of project design concerns the estimation of RDA's ability to implement the
project and the related roles and terms of reference (TOR) for the expatriate engineers. Recognizing
that RDA was still a relatively young organization (it was formed in 1981) and not yet experienced
with large construction contracts, the project had two expatriate consulting firms: one as the
engineer's representative on site (supervising engineer) and the other as the engineer's advisor and to
give technical assistance to RDA on contract management and implementation (advising engineer);
and the . RDA was the engineer. However, because the TORs were too restrictive for each firm,
this arrangement was not satisfactory and RDA did not receive as much benefit from the consulting
engineers as had been envisioned.
12.   The supervising engineer was to supervise the day-to-day construction and administer the
instructions of the engineer for each contract. In this role, it acted only as a conduit for the
engineer's instructions, i.e., there was no authority for it to "manage" the contract.
13.   The advising engineer was employed to give technical assistance to RDA for highway
engineering and construction management. In this role, it should have been well situated to find
many of the problems with the designs and tender documents before going to bid, as well as provide
guidance to RDA in order to help limit problems when they developed (para. 19). However, given
the results at project end, it is clear that this firm did not perform its functions well.
14.   It appears that the project setup for the role of engineer and the two engineering consulting
firms could have been better designed. The supervising engineer probably needed more authority to
manage the contracts on site and the advising engineer needed better TORs which clearly set out its
responsibilities for the choice of works to be undertaken, the designs chosen for specific works and
tender document quality control.
15.   Bank records show that only a total of 4.5 staff weeks were used from project identification
through appraisal (Section III, Table 11) and this short time was not sufficient to adequately identify,
inspect, review the designs and cost the project's components. For example, the foundations for one
major bridge (Kalutara) were not inspected below the water line, and during construction it was
discovered that they were inadequate to carry the designed loads and, therefore, had to be replaced.
Mostly as a result of this oversight, the contract suffered more than a 200 percent cost overrun
(Section III, Table 8).
Implementation
16.   After an initial good start with the award of two contracts within three months of effectiveness
(July 1985), the project gradually began to suffer increasing difficulties and, by late 1988, was
experiencing substantial cost overruns and delays. Overall, implementation suffered from: poor
project design regarding the role for the expatriate consulting engineers; inadequate physical works
inspections during appraisal; insufficient review of designs and tender documents by the engineers,
RDA and the Bank; and not enough Bank supervision missions resulting from its 1987 re-organization
and civil disturbances.
17.   Concerning the road components, many of the problems that developed during implementation
can be traced to one contract (Colombo-Kandy road) where engineering specifications were based on
definitions of a limited number of work types (e.g., replace base, rebuild shoulder, etc.) and not
detailed drawings. Bids were then invited on indicative quotes for the different work types supported



bv only line drawings, with the extent of the actual work to be agreed on site and within an overall
budget envelope. The adoption of this procedure may have been the result of the drawings and tender
documents being prepared in only three months.
18.   During much of the time that road works were starting to experience difficulty (from February
1987 to February 1988), the Bank was unable to field any missions to supervise the work in progress
(because of its re-organization and then civil unrest inside Sri Lanka). As a result, RDA was left
more or less on its own (see following paragraph) and the problems with major cost overruns started.
For example, on certain sections of the Colombo-Kandy road. and because of a lack of detailed
designs and drawings, the contractor and RDA agreed on construction that went far beyond the
appraisal intention of "rehabilitation" and instead amounted to upgrading without consideration for
cost implications, land acquisition problems, time delays and the potential for contractor claims.
19.   During the time of the Bank's inability to send missions to Sri Lanka, the advising engineer
should have assumed much of the responsibility for making sure that the work undertaken agreed with
the project's goal of rehabilitation and stayed within budget. Unfortunately, this firm exercised little
control in this regard, and road work cost overruns and problems sharply escalated during that year.
It also appears that the Bank and advising engineer did not adequately review all the tender documents
for consistency which likely led to further implementation problems.
20.   As for bridge works, and except for the problems discussed above for the Kalutara Bridge
(para. 15), they were completed almost within budget (Rs. 79.5 million at appraisal versus Rs. 80.9
at completion) and two additional structures were added during implementation (Section III, Table 8).
21.   Some responsibility for the cost overruns and implementation problems can also be attributed
to civil disturbances. Many of the project's contracts were located in areas which eventually became
dangerous and had either to be abandoned (especially bridges) or delayed with subsequent cost
increases (see map).
22.   On a more positive note, once the problems in implementation became evident, both the
Borrower and Bank moved quickly to better manage and supervise the project and redirect resources
to successfully and complete those components that remained. For example, the Bank made frequent
supervision missions after February 1988, and included more engineers as mission members than
would normally be the case for this type of loan (see Part III, Table 10). RDA also acted promptly to
strengthen management and project controls through the establishment of a Project Management and
Monitoring Unit (PMMU) that employed additional and better qualified managers and cost
accountants than had previously existed in the agency. It also began to insist that contractors adhere
to the scope of project works and contract provisions and devoted more time to resolving contractors'
claims and concerns. As a result, by early 1989, costs were much better controlled, the largest
contractor claims were resolved, the works were progressing much faster and substantially all of the
project cost overruns had already taken place. By early 1991, and in spite of the sometimes
disruptive deterioration in the security situation, almost all the components remaining in the project's
reduced scope were successfully completed (some major works even finished early) and the loan
closed six months ahead of the date projected at appraisal.



6-
Proiect Results
23.   Overall, project results were significantly below those envisioned at appraisal. By the time of
its completion in June 1992. only about half of the planned 300 km of roads had been improved, only
20 out of an anticipated 28 bridges were rehabilitated (two were also added) and only Rs. 12.1
million out of an estimated Rs. 28.5 million was spent on equipment. Despite the reductions in
project scope, the total cost of the completed components was still Rs. 2.00 billion, compared with an
appraisal estimate of Rs. 1.18 billion (see Part III, Table 8).
24.   Yet, by concentrating the road and bridge work that could be completed on the nation's
busiest highways, benefits were maximized in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs. For example,
and despite an escalation in costs and lower benefits, an economic re-evaluation calculates the overall
ERR at about 33 percent for those contracts that remained in the reduced project scope (versus an
overall ERR of 82 percent estimated at appraisal). In addition, and although not included in either
ERR calculation, significant travel time savings were achieved on every road section addressed during
the project (e.g., RDA states that non-peak travel time from Colombo to Kandy, which is 116
kilometers, was reduced to from at least 3.5 to a maximum of 2.5 hours).
25.    Another important achievement was the project's positive effect on the local contracting
industry. Before the project started, there was virtually no indigenous capability (including in RDA)
to undertake more than the most ingenuous road and bridge work. However, as all but one of the
project's 22 bridge contracts were completed using either local competitive bidding (10) or force
account (11), the loan provided the means for a substantial improvement in the country's capacity to
undertake more sophisticated construction. These benefits are already being realized in the Third
Roads Project where there is an increased reliance on local contractors.
26.   The project also achieved its objective of turning MTH's emphasis from new construction to
rehabilitation and maintenance and to building up its implementation capacity. Thus, RDA today has
a clear understanding about the cost and contract ramifications of moving center lines, insisting on
uniform carriage widths and not adapting as necessary to existing site topography. Also, and as a
result of lessons learned, RDA has begun developing in-house institutional and technical capability to:
execute large international competitive bidding contracts (including how to best cast the role of
expatriate engineering firms); prepare accurate and consistent tender documents; and implement
contracts in such a way as to limit contractor opportunities for un-substantiated claims.
27.   Improved periodic maintenance for the country's trunk road network was addressed through
the establishment of RDA District Offices. However, given the constraints caused by the road and
bridge civil works cost overruns, the initial impact of these offices was somewhat diminished because
it was not possible to purchase any of the equipment intended for periodic maintenance.
28.    Regarding equipment and training to increase MTH's highway planning capacity, some
progress was made with the establishment and staffing of a traffic planning department. However,
most of the envisioned equipment and training could not be provided because of cost overruns in the
civil works.



29.   Finally, the sector also benefited from the Transport Sector Planning Study financed by the
project. This was the first study performed in the country that covered all transportation modes and it
has become an important policy paper for lenders, donors and the GOSL. Because it contains in one
volume material that formerly had to be gathered from different government departments. it is also
proving to be a useful reference document for transport statistics.
Project Sustamability
30.   All of the completed project components are likely to sustain their net benefits over their
respective estimated economic lives. While some factors may later appear that would affect this
outcome (e.g., faulty workmanship that is not immediately apparent, natural disasters, or a resurgence
of civil unrest), there do not appear to be technical problems with any of the civil works.
31.   Risks to this assessment depend on RDA's ability to undertake periodic surveys and
maintenance work to ensure that small and easily manageable problems do not become large ones
which would exceed its financial and technical capacity. To address this concern. RDA and IDA are
designing in the proposed National Roads Project a road and bridge monitoring component
appropriate to the needs and abilities of RDA's staff. It is envisioned that this system will, for the
first time, allow RDA to design a periodic and preventative maintenance program and, thereby,
ensure that the net benefits achieved during the Second and Third Roads Projects are continued for as
long as possible.
32.   The sustainability of lessons learned in technical assistance areas are also likely to be
maintained. For example, RDA has institutionalized its PMMU approach to contract administration
and has shown, in the ongoing Third Roads Project, that it can achieve meaningful technology
transfer through this arrangement. It has also been able to improve and enlarge the accounting and
tracking systems established as part of the Second Roads Project. The most serious risks to the
project's instuiutional gains are personnel turnover, but RDA has already made one successful
transition at the Director level and it continues placing more emphasis on training and involvement for
its less senior managers.
Bank Performance
33.     The lack of adequate time spent by the Bank in preparation and supervision is at least partly
to blame for the significant cost overruns experienced during implementation. Also, the Bank should
not have allowed the use of indicative and typical (versus detailed) drawings, and should have taken
more steps to insure that tender documents were adequate and consistent. It also assumed too much
about the feasibility of the advising engineer to assist RDA with contract implementation without
more detailed TORs and/or better supervision. The Bank should have exercised more control over
the design changes that occurred during implementation and, when costs rose rapidly, demanded the
project be re-structured or re-appraised. Another Bank shortcoming in this project was permitting a
long break in supervision missions while the 1987 re-organization was underway.
34.   Against these weaknesses, and once it became clear that the project had serious difficulties,
the Bank was both quick and appropriate in its response. Its first action (in June 1988) was to send a
team composed of two senior highway engineers and one transport specialist on a fact finding
mission. Their recommendations (to re-orient the project towards rehabilitating the maximum



- 8-
possible number of road sections and bridees without exceeding the loan's monetary limits and to
correct to the extent possible the technical problems already encountered) kept the project's overall
performance from deteriorating any further.
35.   Further, and after the Bank's June 1988 mission, the Borrower also made significant headway
in controlling contract costs. This was accomplished mainly by following the Bank's suggestion to
insist that variation orders not be routinely processed and that the cost of all such orders be analyzed
by RDA and reviewed by the Bank before approval.
36.   The Bank also recognized many of the institutional weaknesses that these problems had
brought to the forefront, and it moved to correct them where possible and to design components in
the Third Roads Project to further build up RDA's capabilities. For example, a Project Preparation
Facility was used to finance detailed engineering studies, and the project includes components for
counterpart construction management training and three relevant studies. In addition, this latest
project enlarged the PMMU to strengthen RDA's capacity to administer large contracts and also it
uses IDA's standard bidding documents.
37. Given these observations, the lessons learned for the Bank are the following:
a.  the need to develop and maintain a tracking system to monitor step-by-step progress
made on each contract, including the setting of deadlines for critical tasks,
b.  in order to facilitate a clear understanding between parties about project objectives, a
comprehensive cost monitoring system, agreed to by both Bank and Borrower, should be
in place before contracts are started. An important function of this system would be the
routine calculation of the effect of work variation orders on the overall contract price;
c.  the use of a Project Preparation Facility (or other similar instrument) to provide more
detailed and better engineering drawings and specifications. This would help the Bank
and Borrower to agree on the critical project components and, therefore, where both
parties will put the greatest supervision effort; and
d.  the need to use IDA's standard bidding documents to reduce contractor claims bv helping
to insure the internal consistency of tender packages.
Borrower Performance
38.   The Borrower's main weaknesses stemmed from its inexperience in contract administration,
procurement and construction management which resulted in continuous experimentation and over
ambitious design during implementation--without due concern to costs versus contractual limitations.
However, considering that this was the first large-scale construction project executed by RDA which
involved international firms, it demonstrated a commendable determination to successfully complete as
much of the project as possible--even when serious problems appeared in connection with both
contract claims and civil unrest. As for the loan's legal requirements, the Borrower promptly met all
its requirements, including the timely provision of counterpart funds and the submission of all
required audit reports.



-9-
39.    Lessons learned for the Borrower (but also applicable to the Bank) are summarized as follows:
a.   when civil works are specified by definitive tvpe only, without detailed designs and
actual works are to be agreed as the contract progresses, then it becomes much more
difficult to keep the contract within budget:
b.  tender documents need to be as explicit as possible in their description of the work to be
performed. and engineering specifications and site conditions must be specified to the
fullest extent in these documents:
c.   site investigations should be thoroughly carried out before design and costing of project
contracts:
d.   contracts should be split so that certain works can be performed by local contractors--at
rates usually lower than international contractors: and
e.   RDA needs to build up its in-house expertise in the areas of the design and
administration of large construction contracts. modern road and bridge building
techniques and accounting.
Proiect Relationship
40.   Initially, the Bank could have supervised the on-going contracts more closely and the
Borrower, in the absence of adequate Bank supervision, should have signalled earlier to the Bank that
problems were being encountered. As a result of the substantial cost overruns and contract problems
experienced midway through the project, the Bank and Borrower subsequently developed a much
closer working relationship. This was particularly the case after the fact finding mission in June
1988. As a result, the RDA and Bank relationship in the ongoing Third Roads Project is considered
good. and largely reflects that established in the Second Roads Project.
Consulting Services
41.    As discussed in paragraphs 11 to 14, consultant performance by the advising engineer was less
than optimal. On the other hand, given the restrictive TORs and the sometimes difficult working
conditions with civil unrest and contract disputes, the supervising engineer generally performed in a
satisfactorv manner.
42.    One lesson leamed in the use of advising consultants is that they need to be better utilized to
facilitate technology transfer and thereby increase RDA's in-house capabilities. For example, in the
Third Roads Project, two RDA counterpart engineers are assigned to the expatriate project advisor in
the PMMU. The full-time responsibilities of these staff are to leam (by doing and through structured
instruction) as much as possible concerning the design and management of large road and bridge
contracts, and help with the dissemination of such information throughout the agency.



- 10 -
Proiect Documentation and Data
43.   There were no problems with the availability or adequacv of project documentation. Because
the Borrower was advised of the requirements for preparation of the Project Completion Report about
a v'ear before the loan's final disbursement. all the material needed for this report (includin tihe text
for Part 11) was timely delivered. Detailed calculations and the assumptions used in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) to determine the project's ERR were not found in the Bank's files and are
presumed lost. However, the results of these analyses were presented in the SAR, so this was not a
problem. except possibly in the case of the double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) road
contracts where it could not be determined whether or not exactly the same methodology was used to
re-calculate the ERR (see Appendix 1, paragraph 6).



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Part II
Introduction
44.   The Second Roads Project was specifically structured for the major works to be performed bv
international, rather than local. contractors as a result of the inadequate performance of local
contractors in the First Project. The introduction of major international construction companies.
which give major emphasis and commensurate resources for the contractual administration. quantitv
surveving and claims aspects of a contract, led to major disputes and claims bv Contractors which
RDA had great difficultv in controlling and resulted in final contract values in excess of three times
the original value, and actual costs in Rupees exceeding bv four times the original estimated costs.
Contract No. 3 is still not settled (as of the date of the writing of Part II in September 1991) and is
likely to go to arbitration.
45.   As the PCR is intended to be analytical rather than descriptive and comprehensive. the report
does not attempt to fullv detail the major problems experienced on the reconstruction of Kalutara
Bridge and the rehabilitation of Colombo-Kandv Road. Phase II. The history of the contractual
disputes has been recorded in other reports and correspondence.
46.   It must be stressed that the contractual difficulties on these 2 Contracts marred the Project and
forced its reduction of scope. The RDA was pitched into contractual conflict with two international
companies Skanska AB of Sweden and Balfour Beattv International Ltd. of UK (while the latter was
one of the Joint Venture Partner, it effectively managed and executed the Contract). Although the
RDA, as the implementing agency had the benefit of the Technical assistance provided under the
Project. and in addition utilized reputable international consultants for supervision of the Colombo-
Kandy Road Phase II work, the financial outcome of these two contracts is considered most
unsatisfactory. (It should be noted that the finished work was satisfactory). Similar situations, with
the accompanying, fruitless expenditure of time and effort and must be avoided in the future.
47.   The PCR also does not attempt to detail the numerous events and serious effects of the civil
disruption caused by politically motivated militants in Sri Lanka during 1988 and 1989. These events
are recorded elsewhere and it is sufficient to note that the country was totally paralvsed for several
periods during these 2 years and that the unrest obviously caused delays to progress. increased costs
considerablv and aggravated the other contractual problems that were being experienced.
48.    The civil unrest was allegedlv the reason for the Contractor on Contract No. RDA/WB2/ICB-
4 abandoning the works in December 1989. While this mav have been valid reason, it is believed
that the uneconomic contract prices would have forced the event ultimately. Termination on mutuallv
agreed terms was negotiated. the main advantage of which was the lease of some of the Contractor's
equipment. at preferential rates, which was used to complete a portion of the Contract work.
49.   The contractual disputes encountered. which demonstrated the acumen of international
contractors contractual expertise and their modus operandi lead to:



- 12 -
querving the suitabilitv of the standard FIDIC type conditions of contract for
rehabilitation work which is not fullv detailed at tender and which necessarily requires
extensive variations.
querving the empiovment of sophisticate. hi-tech international contractors. for basicallv
simple but labour intensive road rehabilitation works.
Consideration of wavs of assisting and encouraging local contractors to perform road
rehabilitation works and exploring the 'construction management and supply of material'
approach for future road rehabilitation works.
Ensuring circumstances leading to delays and variations to the works are minimized in
future similar Projects.
Bank's Performance
50.   The Banks significant contribution and understanding throughout the Project period are greatlv
appreciated. In particular the Bank was sympathetic to the contractual problems encountered and to
the internal difficulties in Sri Lanka during the execution of the Project. The Bank's loan terms
contain conditions pertaining to the selection of contractors and consultants, contract conditions to be
used and approval by the Bank for major expenditure or deviations from the approved program. The
Borrower therefore is guided to a large extent by the Bank's procedures and requirements. In such
circumstances, it is considered incumbent on the Bank to assist and advise corrective action to be
taken when serious problems arise in the implementation of a Project. With regard to the problems
encountered on Contracts Nos. I and 3, it is felt that although a mission was sent in June 1988 to
investigate the status of Contract No 3, the Bank could have assisted more and been positive in
respect of the serious contractual and cost difficulties.
51.   In structuring the scope and Contract documents for the Third Project, both the Bank and
RDA have recognized the problems experienced in the Second Project and have sought to avoid
similar ones by improving technical specifications, more fully describing and detailing work at tender
stace and amending suitably the conditions of contract. The Bank's recommendations are
encapsulated in the Appraisal Report for the Third Project.
Borrower's Performance
52.   The First Roads Project did not cover any long sections of roads, nor involved international
companies in the execution of the Project scope. No major road project, apart from that included in
the Mahaweli Dam and Irrigation Project, had been undertaken in Sri Lanka for a number of years.
The implementation of the Project, was to an extent out with the RDA's experience, which was the
reason the Project included the Technical Assistance (Highway Engineering and Construction
Management Advisers) to supplement RDA's organization. The Technical Assistance period actually
used was some 84 man months, double the estimated quantitv.
53.   The two advisers operated within the Project Management Cell of the Construction
Management and Contracts Division (changed to "Contracts Management" in 1990) of the RDA.



- 13 -
54.    The Director. CM. acted as the Eneineer under the Contract for Contracts Nos. .. 3 and 4
while the Consultants assumed the position for Contract No. 1. Kalutara Bridges. The Deputv
Director was the Engineer for the LCB bridge contracts. The situation whereby the Engineer, under
a FIDIC based contract. is part of the Employer's staff. is not uncommon but undesirable as conflict
of interest is unavoidable and complete impartialitv, as intended by the Contract. is therefore difficult
to achieve.
>5.    The CM division. the Technical Assistance and the consultants supervising Kalutara Bridge
and Colombo-Kandy Road. Phase II Contracts worked very diligentlv (as evidenced bv the extensive
records. reports and correspondence) to bring the Contracts to a satisfactory conclusion but the
overrun of costs was not avoided. While hindsight provides better solutions. no particular cause.
fault or non-performance can be determined which explains or lays blame for the outcome. but bv the
same token no particular party can be exonerated. The problems stemmed from. in the case of
Kalutara Bridges, a major variation due to a design change and on Colombo-Kandy Road Phase II.
largely from ambiguous and inadequate tender documentation which in turn resulted in ordered
variations. The Contractors used such variations to claim inordinately large payment increase.
The unit costs achieved in the Project are:
A.C. rehabilitated Roads:                 Rs b.6 million (SO.2 million per Kn
DBST rehabilitated Roads:                 Rs 1.90 million ($0.06 million) per Km
Major Bridge:                             Rs 0.3 million ($0.01 million) per carriageway
metre length of bridge)
Minor Bridges:                            Rs 4.5 million ($0.14 million) each
56.     While the road costs were very much higher than the estimates, thev are not so excessive
when compared to the tender prices received in mid 1991 for World Bank Third Roads Project and
the ADB Second Roads Project. For example the unit price for AC rehabilitated roads in these
tenders is between Rs 6 and 8.2 million per km. Considered in the light of current costs, then the
actual unit costs achieved are not so unreasonable when the additional costs of civil disruption are
discounted.
57.     The actual cost of the Kalutara Bridge is less than the cost of the similar New Victoria
Bridge (Japanese Friendship Bridge) which is currently under construction. This bridge provides only
about 30% of the Kalutara Bridge's carriageway length. This again is reassuring in that the actual
cost. while greatvly in excess of the estimate and tender price. has proved to be not unreasonable.
58.     The fact that the unit cost in the Project work are in line with the current costs indicates that
the original estimates were low and that costs have greatly increased in the Project period. The rates
of return. as given in Part I. Section 6 reflect that the actual costs were not out of order.



- 14 -
L essons Learnt
Road Rehabilitation
59.     On both phases of the rehabilitation of Colombo-Kandy Road. the road pavement
strengthening and profiling by scarification of the existing pavement wvas found to be physicallv
impractical. The use of penetration macadam for road base was also found to be inadvisable because
of time considerations on heavilv trafficked roads. The use of an asphaltic regulating material was
therefore introduced on these two contracts and was also specified for Contract No. 4. Since an
asphalt mixing plant is already a necessity for the surface course material. processing an asphaltic
regulating base material is only marginallv more expensive but this margin is outweighed by time and
related costs. All future Contracts will specify the use of such asphaltic regulatingibase material.
60.      Care will be taken ensure delays due to services are minimized either by re-locating these
prior to commencement of work. or bv designing the road improvements with the extant services.
Similarly with land acquisition, if land has not been, or cannot be acquired for desired widening, then
the works will be detailed within the right of way.
61.      Tender documents need to be more explicit in the description of the works and need to be
thoroughly checked in order to remove ambiguities, errors etc. and to ensure completeness.
Bridge Works
62.      Following the events of Kalutara Bridge Contract, the site investigation, which will include a
structural survey of any part of the existing bridge which is to be incorporated into the new structure,
will be thoroughly carried out and confirmed prior to design and tender.
Local Contracting Industrv
63.      In the light of the cost of performing rehabilitation works by international contractors. the
.ncouragement and development of domestic contractors appears paramount for long term benefits.
The Third Project provides for a study of local contractors and ways and means for developing the
industrv. It would seem that if the supply of materials, such as aggregates and asphaltic concrete,
which require large long term capital investment. could be arranged this would facilitate the
participation of local contractors.
Selection of Contractors
64.     The pre-qualification of contractors should contain provisions for assessing the Contractor's
litigation record and feedback from the Bank should be forthcoming on previous work undertaken by
each applicant on other Bank funded projects. Considered excessive dispute history should be
grounds for disqualifving contractors.



- 15 -
Management and Monitoring
65.     It is acknowledged that an improvement in contract manaigement is required. especially for
international contractors and their sophisticated staff. The Third Roads Project has provisions for
establishing a Project Management and Monitoringz Unit which will facilitate identifving necessary
action in respect of issuing variations. their valuations. claims. etc.
Risk of Civil Unrest
66.      With the history of events in Sri Lanka over the past 10 vears. the risk of civil unrest in the
countrv impacting a Project cannot be ignored. Having experienced the effects during the Second
Roads Project. the RDA is now more aware of the consequences and is better prepared for taking
decisions regarding suspending or termninating work for such reasons.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2517-CE)
Part III
1. Related World Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit         Year of         Purpose of Project    [     Status         Comments
Title           Approval
L569-CE; CR133-CE         1968       Enhanced bus transport       Cancelled
Highwavs                             and maintenance: traffic
engineering
CR900-CE                  1979       Restore portions of road     Completed
Road Maintenance                     network: repair bridges:
institutional strengtheninz
CR994-CE                  1980       Facilitate transportation of  Completed
Road Passenger                       passengers and goods and
Transport                           to reduce road transport
costs
CR1883-CE                 1988       Road reconstruction in       In Progress     Slowed by
Emergency                            north and northeast areas                    civil unrest
Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project                                                                          l
CR2183-CE                 1991       Restore and/or upgrade       In Progress     Progressing
Third Roads                          major trunk and                              well
secondary roads and
bridges; 3 major studies:
construction standards:
roads sub-sector of
construction industrv; and
user charges
National Roads            N/A        Establish appropriate          Under         Appraisal in
Project                              policy and institutional     Preparation     FY 94
framework for road
maintenance



- 17 -
2. Project Timetable
Date
Item             Planned     Revised       Actual
First Mention in Files                               3/80
Government's Application                             N/A
Identification                                       10/80
Project Brief                                        2/82
Preparation Mission                 --               11/82
Appraisal Missions          1 1/82                5/83 to 9/84
Loan Negotiations           4/83                     2/85
Board Approval              6/83                     4/85
Loan Signature               7/83                    5/85
Loan Effectiveness          9/83                     7/85
Project Completion          10/92         --         4/92
Loan Closing            1   12/92       7/92         6/92



- 18 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Bank Fical Year        Estimated      Actual      Actual % of
and Quarter          Cumulative *    Cumulative    Estimated
1986  1                   240        2.000        833.33
2                  480         2,900        604.17
3                 1,200        2.900        241.67
4                 1,680        3,500        208.33
1987  1                 2,640        3,700        140.15
2                 3,360        5,700        169.64
3                 4,320        6,000        138.89
4                 5,280        7,500        142.05
1988  1                 6,480        9,100         140.43
2                 7.680        9,700        126.30
3                 8,880       11,400        128.38
4                10,080       12,200        121.03
1989  1                11,280        16,000       141.84
2                12,480       16,500        132.21
3                13,680       17,300        126.46
4                14,880       18,800        126.34
1990  1                16,080       19,600        121.89
2                17,040       23,000        134.98
3                18.000       23,800        132.22
4                18,960       23.900        126.05
1991   1               19,680       24,000        121.95
2                20,400       24,000        117.65
3                21,120       24.000        113.64
4                21,840       24,000        109.89
1992  1                22,230       24,000         107.96
2                22,800       24,000        105.26
3                23,160       24,000        103.63
4                23,520       24,000        102.04
1993  1                23.760       24,000        101.01
2                24,000       24,000        100.00
Final Disbursement: September 14, 1990
Based on South Asia Transportation Disbursement
Profile as of 3/85



- 19 -
4. Proiect ImDlementation
Bids Invited       Contract Award         Start of Work   I CompLttion of Workl
Project                       .--I----------- ------------------
c  onent                      Ptwled  ActuaI        PaWWed  Actual| Plared  Actual             Pliwrd  Actual
Road Works by Contract                               |                                           I
........... _........ ....... .                                                                                    I
Paclkae S1 (per SAU)             01/85           I    11/85                  i 1/86                3/89
Package Q2 (per SU)              12/85           |      N/A            |       /A                  1989
Cotolfbo-Norone Road                       4/88                 10/18 12/8                                  9/90
Cobo-Kandy Phase I                         4/85                  8/5 s             10/85    I                7/89
Cotaffo-Kwndy Phase I1                      1/86                08/86              10/86    I                1990
Bridge Works by Contract                             |                                           F
..............................l 
Package 91 (per SAR)              1/85                10/85            I    11/85           I       N/A
Packag  02 (per  AR)             11/85           I     6/86                   K/A           I       N/A
Package 93 (per SAU)             12/l 6                6/87                   l/A            I      N/A
1 27/1 and 27/2 at Katutara                   1/85                 7/85                  9/a5 s                1990
2 38/1, Cotabo Gall* Road                    5/87                  6/87                  197                   1992
6 153/6 (243/5 km), C.R.W.R. Rd.              2/87 |               6/87 |                7/87 |                1990
7 159/4 (253/4 km), C.R.U.R. Rd.             2/87                  6/87 1                7/87                  1990
8 183/2, Comc o-Wet&LNay  Rd.                 2/87                 6/57 I                7/v7                  1992
16 18/2, EkaUla-Gaha Road                     2/87 I                5/87                  6/87                  2/89
17 17/13. Colo-Kandy Road                    11/86                  3/87 I                4/87 1                1988
21 9/4, Alaem-Dplteasa Ad.                    11/86                 3/87 |                4/87 |                3/91
23 1/6. Katswayeke- vywWoda Rd.               11/86 i               3/87                  4/87                 10/90
30 154/2, Cotro-GCate-gavntoto Rd.             7/87                 9/87                  1987                  1991
i              ~          ~         ~~                    ~~~~~~~~I II
BrdWge worka by force Account                                              I                     I
...... _____ __ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                      I
Per SMR                            K/A             Multiplo Dotes    | Muttiple Dotes         MultipLe Dates
3 1/8. Kirindiwits G_Imjlla Rd                  MA I                  A                  1987 I               12/90
4 25/2. Galtlebeiyay  load                      MA                   MA                  1987 I                8/88
9 53/2, Tawmuntr_lal tawateole Rd.              IA MA                                    1986 |               11/88
18 Over  e Oy', oAwgo.-Mika wera. Rd.            ItA                  LA         |        1986                 12/86
19 10/11, Ablwanod-Pitigosi Rd.                 ItA                    A I A              117                 12/87
22 1/1. Laxpwa-awry R od                         MA                    K A                1986                 12/86
24 27/1, Kottaws-Ahangmi Rd.                      A                                       a/MA |  s   |        lO/86|
25 2V9  Niomn-Tha thagiaums Rd.                  MA                   MA                  196                  1 2/8
26 6/3 (10/2 io), Colabo-Kwdy Rd.                MA                   MA                  1985                 12/86
28 Laeoon Bridge, Chilow                         MA                   IlA                 1987                  8/87
29 1V/7  Katte-ope toad                          MA                   MA                  1987 I               11/87
Tlchnical Assistwnce                                                       I                     I
._ _______ _ __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                       I
Pr SM                             5/85           I    11/85            1     1/86            1     2/88
Kiax  Interatiil                                  MA                 2/85 I                7/85 1                4/87
W. S. Atkirn Intenutional                         MA                    MA                   MA                    MA
Louit larger International                        MA                    MA                   MA                    MA
Equipment Procurmnt:                                                       I                     I
..............................l                                                             
Labratory                       6/85       NA I    11/85         MA                    MA                    KA
Workshop                        6/85        MA      11/85        MA                    MA                    MA
Niace lmous                    1/86        MA I      N/A        MA                    MA                    MA
i/A * Mot avOilaobe.



- 20 -
5. Proiect Costs
(in US$ miilions)
<--------Estimated --------          <-------- Actua* --------l
Category                      Locat    Foreign       Totat         Locat    Foreign       Total
Road Repairs                    11.0         9.8       20.8         26.87       12.01        38.9
Bridge Repairs                   3.1         3.2        6.3         10.35        6.38        16.7
Supervision                      0.9         0.3         1.2         0.13        3.67         3.8
Equipment                        0.6         0.9         1.5         0.14        0.23         0.4
Technical Assistance
and Training                   0.2        0.7         0.9          0.04         1.7         1.7
Total Base Costs             15.8       14.9        30.7          37.5        24.0       61.5
Physical Contingencies           1.5         1.4        2.9
Price Contingencies              6.2         3.8       10.0
Total Contingencies           7.7        5.2        12.9           0.0         0.0        0.0
Project Total                23.5       20.1        43.6          37.5        24.0       61.5
UflflE    =ZzMzSf      =ZZss         Nassus=   =Manz==   zzSaSu
a Used exchange rate of Rs. 32.5 a S1 (mean exchange rate during Project).



- 21 -
6. Project Financing
and
7. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in USS millions)
<---------Planned----------,
First    Second
Source                     Original  Revision  Revision                    Percent
(1)        (2)        (3)        Actual    of P(anned
IBRD
Roadworks                    14.0       12.0        12.0        12.03     100.25
Bridgeworks                   4.0        6.2         6.4         6.39      99.84
Equipment                     1.0        0.4         0.3         0.24      80.00
Technical Assistance          2.5        5.4         5.3         5.34     100.75
Special Account               2.0        0.0         0.0         0.00       0.00
Unallocated                   0.5        0.0         0.0         0.00       0.00
Total IBRO                  24.0       24.0       24.0          24.0     100.00
GOVERNMENT                     19.6        19.6       19.6        41.23    210.36
Total                        43.6       43.6       43.6          65.2     149.61
NOTES:
(1)  Original is per Loan Agreement dated 5/85;
(2)  First Revision is per GOSL request and Bank
agreement dated 12/88;
(3)  Second Revision is per GOSL request and Bank
agreement dated 5/89.



- 22 -
8. Direct Benefits of Proiect
Road Ccnporwnts of Project
< -Length (km)-->      Cost (Rs. Millions)        Cost (USS Millions)
Road and Location                           Approisal  Actual       Appraisat   Actual       Appraisal   Actual
*I                                                                         -I-----------*-    -------  -    --------- * I-
Road Sections -- Asphalt Overloy                                 II                       II
1 Colofbo-Kandy (Al) (MP 9-32)                 37.0       37.0  I      72.0       113.0 II      2.72        3.48
2 Miriswatta-GCaho                              4.0        4.0 II       9.0         9.0 II       0.34        0.28
3 Jaela-Ekala-GaC eiho-Yakkala                  4.0        4.0 II       9.0         9.0 II       0.34        0.28
4 Oil Refinery Appraoch Road                    3.2        3.2 |        8.0         8.4 ||       0.30        0.26
5 Colarfbo-Kandy (Al) (KP 32-72)               64.4       64.4 I      130.0       733.0 II       4.91      22.55
6 Colombo-Galle-i4mbantota-W*LLawaya           59.5          0        118.0            0         4.45        0.00
7 Katukurunda-uagods-Matugisa                   2.5          0          6.0            0 ||      0.23        0.00
8 Colambo-Gale-Hambntota-Wellawaya             64.4          0        130.0            0 ||      4.91        0.00
9 Kandy-Jaffna Road                            24.1        4.0         54.0        20.0          2.004       0.62
10 Kandy-Mahiywnga-Pedlyatalawa                  4.8          0 II      12.0            0 II      0.45       0.00
11 Railway Station Approach Road                 1.8          0 ||       5.0            0         0.19       0.00
12 Katugastota-Wurvnegala-Puttalm               11.2          0 fl      25.0            0         0.94       0.00
13 PoredenIyea-Ba&iLa -Ch*aladi                 20.9          0 fl      45.0            0         1.70       0.00
14 Colabo-Horar  (KIohwula  Region) *           19.3       19.0         W. 10.0     36.3 I        0.38        1.12
15 CoLolo-Horana (Kalutara Region) *             6.5        6.0 I|   10.0           11.5          0.38       0.35
16 Kadawata-WLlisaro Road                          0        7.9        M NA         53.4         0.00         1.64
..... ........ I-I -                            -  .
Total                                       327.6      149.5 ||    643.0        993.6 II    24.26        30.57
Road Sections -- Surface Treatment
1 Kurnegala-Warammela-Madape                   61.0       61.0 II      45.0        50.0 II       1.70        1.54
2 Negombo-Giriulla                             34.5       34.5 ||      28.0        93.0 ||       1.06        2.86
3 Kelaniya-Siyagma-Muduwgoda                   28.5       28.5 II      20.0        77. 0I        0.75        2.37
4 Ekala-Gmpha                                   9.5        9.5 ||       8.0        26.0 II       0.30        0.80
5 Minh.angoda-CGpeh                             8.7        8.7 I         8.0       24.0 II       0.30        0.74
6 Kardy-RIk  ligaskada                         32.0          0 ,I      28.0            0 II      1.06        0.00
7 Kotte-Bope                                   24.0          0 fl      20.0            0 II      0.75        0.00
8 Colmo-Norana (KohL.uala Region) *            19.3          0 ||
9 Colonbo-Horan  (Kalutara Region) *            6.5          0 ||                        II
10 Penadura-Ratnapura                           48.0          0 ||      35.0            0 ||      1.32       0.00
* _                     ......... I-I.  *                    -I-I
Total                                       272.0      142.2 II    192.0        270.0 II      7.25        8.31
*  OriginalLy plarned for surface treatment but transferred to asphalt overlay.
' New item added during inplementation.



- 23 -
8. Direct Benefits of Proiect (Con't)
Bridge Work Done By Contract
- -----YWork----->     Cost (Rs. Mitlions) |   Cost (USS Mitlions)
Bridge No. and Location                      Appraisal  Actual       Appraisal   Actual        Appraisal   Actual
1 27/1 and 27/2 at Kalutara                    RpB        Rp8   II    120.0        457.0 II       4.53       14.06
2 38/1, CoLonbo Galle Road                     WR         WR    jj       11.0        14.5 ||      0.42        0.45
3 1/8, Kirindiwita Ganemulla Road              WR         WR     |       11.0         8.6 Ii      0.42        0.26
4 25/2, Galle Deniyays Road                    WR         WR     |        3.0         3.4         0.11        0.10
5 42/1, Satticaloa Trincomalle Rd.             WR       Dropped II        9.0           0 ||      0.34        0.00
6 153/6 (243/5 km), C.R.W.R. Rd.               WR         WR    ||        9.0        11.7         0.34        0.36
7 159/4 (253/4 km), C.R.W.8. Rd.               WR         WR    ||        3.4         4.1 Ii      0.13        0.13
8 183/2, ColOnbo-WtLLawaya Rd.                 WA         WR    ||        7.0         3.6 II      0.26        0.11
9 53/2, Tawalantere-TaLawakelLe Rd.            WR         WA R    I       6.0         4.8 ||      0.23        0.15
10 12/4, 12/5, 12/6 Kantale-Seruwila Rd.    RpC          Dropped ||        5.0           0 |       0.19        0.00
11 13/1, Kantale Seruwila Road                  RpC      Dropped II        5.0           0 II      0.19        0.00
12 15/4, KantaLe-SeruwiLa Road                  RpC      Dropped II        5.0           0 ||      0.19        0.00
13 16/1, 16/2, KantaLa-Seruwila Rd.             RpC      Dropped ||       16.0           0 ||      0.60        0.00
14 18/1, 18/2, KantateLa-Seruwila Rd.           RpC      Dropped ||        5.0           0 ||      0.19        0.00
15 15/3, MaradankaaweLa-laborana Rd.            RC       Dropped ||        2.0           0 ||      0.08        0.00
16 18/2, Ekala-Gampaha Road                     RC         RC    ||        3.5         2.3 ||      0.13        0.07
17 17/13, Colcwho-Kandy Road                     H          w    ||       4.0          3.0 ||      0.15        0.09
18 Over Mee Oya, Morago.-Mikawera. Rd.          RC         RC     11       5.0         3.3         0.19        0.10
II  .       . .---- -    -------- i    ---------    --------
TotaL                                                                229.9       516.4          8.68       15.89
33UZ3---z =sZannu-al   =Su-3a3z- 2x-u3----



- 24 -
8. Direct Benefits of Project (Con't)
Bridge Work Done By Force Accorunt
-----Work-----    |Cost (Rs. Mitlions)  ||  Cost (USS Millions)
Bridge No. and Location                        Appraisal  Actualt    AppraiSal   Actual              Appraisal    Actual
------------------ ---------------------  --------- ---------1   ---------  ---------1   ---------  ---------
19 10/11, Anbalangoda-Pitigala Rd.                 WR          WR     II       2.0          0.6 ||       0.08         0.02
20 45/5, Co(onmo-Galle Rd.                         WR       Dropped ||          3.0          0.0 ||       0.11         0.00
21 9/4, Alawwa-Danpalessa Rd.                      WR          WR     Ii        2.0          5.5 ||       0.08        0.17
22 1/1, Laxapana-Murry Road                        WR          WR               1.6          3.6 ||       0.06         0.11
23 1/6, Katunryake-Veyangoda Rd.                   Rp          Rp6    ||        3.0         4.9  II       0.11        0.15
24 27/1, Kottawa-Ahangam  Rd.                      WR           R               1.5          1.1  O| 0.06              0.03
25 22/9, Mkmena-Thalahagamaduwa Rd.                Rd          Rd               2.5          1.4 II       0.09        0.04
26 6/3 (10/2 km), Colobo-Kandy Rd.                  w           w     |         1.0          1.3 II       0.04        0.04
27 1/1, Gorakadwa Road                             Rd          Rd     II        1.5          0.8 ||       0.06        0.02
28 Lagoon Bridge, Chilaw                           Rd          Rd       I       1.5          2.4 Ii       0.06        0.07
29 12/7, Kotte-Bope Road                                       WR           Added            1.7 i       0.00         0.05
30 154/2, Cooambo-Gatle-Harbantota Rd.                         WR           Added           3.9           0.00        0.12
II---------  ---------I   ---------  ---------
TotaL                                                                      19.6         27.2          0.74         0.84
Supervison, Equipment and Technical Assistance
Supervision                                                                   31.8        124.6 II        1.20        3.83
Equipment                                                                     40.3         12.1 II        1.52        0.37
Technical Assitatnce                                                          22.9         56.4 II       0.86          1.74
---------  ---------1   ---------  ---------
95.0        193.1 II        3.6          5.9
NOTES:
Rp8 * Replacement of Exisiting Bridge
WR     Widening and Reconstruction
RpC aReplacement of existing culvert, etc., with new bridge
RC  =Repair or reconstruction
W   = Widening
Rd = Redecking of exisiting bridge
NA a Not Available



- 25 -
9. Proiect Studies
I Purpose as Defined                 | Status           Impact of Studv
_  at Appraisal                      l                l                            l
Transport Study   Examine the four priority areas      Completed.       Important input into
for TCC          under the TCC's jurisdiction:                          Government's planning in
1. Transport Planning                                 this sector.
2. Railway financial and
operational improvements
3. User charges
4. Role of public buses



- 26 -
10. Compliance With Loan Covenants
Section           Description                        Status of Compliance
Art. III   GOSL to establish a Project Management    In full compliance.
3.02     Cell within RDA and maintain it with
adequate staff.
Art. IV    RDA to keep project accounts, have them   In full compliance with
4.01      audited and send them to the Bank within   exception of moderate
six months of end of financial year.       delavs.
Schedule 5 Implementation Program
1.       GOSL to timely execute Transport Study,     Study completed and final
discuss findings with Bank and implement   report submitted.
findings as agreed with the Bank.
2.       GOSL to release maintenance funds for       In full compliance.
years 1985-89, as agreed with Bank.
3.       RDA to annuallv review its equipment hire   In full compliance.
charges to contractors with the Bank.
4.        RDA to appoint a Project Coordinator.       In full compliance.
5.        RDA to establish a Technical and            In full compliance.
Financial Audit.



- 27 -
11. Staff Inputs Bv Stage of Proiect
(Staff Weeks)
Staee of Project Cycle              Number of Staff Weeks                 Remarks
Through Appraisal                         4.5                                 1
Appraisal Through Board
Presentation                            15.1                                1
Board Approval Throusgh
Effectiveness                           0.0
Supervision                               17.7                                1
TOTAL                                    37.3
Remarks: 1. Estimates, because MIS does not allocate staff weeks exactly between
time spent on different projects during the same mission.



- 28 -
12. Mission Data By Proiect Stazes
STAGE OF         MONTH/    NUMBER OF  STAFF WEEKS  SPECIALIZATIC9  PERFORMANCE
PROJECT CYCLE         YEAR      PERSONS   IN FIELD(')   REPRESENTED             BY ACTIV
Through AppraisaL        11/82           3            8.4      EGR/EGR/EGR           ---
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal 1              5/83           2           10.4          EGR/ECN
Appraisal II            10/83           3            4.2      EGR/EGR/FNA
Appraisal III            2/84           1            2.8              EGR
Appraisal IV             6/84           2            1.6          EGR/ECN
Appraisal V              9/84           1            1.0              ECN
Subtotal                                            20.0
0 D L M
Supervision                                                                       --------
Supervision I           10/85           1            1.8              EGR        1 1 - 1
Supervision II           3/86           1           1.8               EGR        1 1 - 1
Supervision III          6/86           1           2.0               EGR        1 1 - 1
Supervision IV           2/87           1           2.0               EGR        1 1 - 1
Supervision V            2/88           1            1.0              ECN        2 1 - 2
Supervision VI (*)    6/88              3           3.6      EGR/EGR/TSP         ---N/A--
Supervision Vil         10/88           2           4.4           EGR/EGR        2 2 - 2
Supervision Vill         3/89           2           2.4           EGR/EGR        2 1 1 2
Surpervision IX         11/89           2           5.2           EGR/EGR        2 2 1 2
Supervision X            3/91           2           2.4           EGR/EGR        2 2 1 2
Supervision Xi          10/91           2           5.2           EGR/TSP        2 2 1 2
Subtotal                                            31.8
PCR                       6/92           2                         EGR/ECN
NOTES:
(1)  ECN * Econorist; EGR = Engineer; FNA = FiananciaL Analyst;
TSP * Transport Specialist.
(2)  1 * Problem-free or Minor Problern; 2 = Moderate Problems.
(3)  0 * Overall Status; D = DeveLopment Objectives of Project; L   Compltian
With Legal Covenants; M = Management Performance of Project;
F z Fund Availability
(4)  * z Almost aLl missions covered other projects as welL.
(5)  *  * Fact Finding Mission.



- 29 -
ADpendcix 1. Economic Re-evaluation
General
1.    The economic analysis at appraisal was in border prices with international prices converted
into Sri Lanka rupees at an exchange rate ot Si = Rs 26.50. All vaiues were expressed in 1985
constant prices. The project costs which were incurred from 1986 to 1991 are considered for
purposes of the PCR to represent end of 1989 costs on average. Therefore. the economic analvsis in
the PCR is in constant 1989 prices. Following what was done at appraisal. the analvsis excludes
benefits and costs of ongoing projects.
Calculation of Economic Benefits
2.    .Methodology. The primarv benefits of the project come from reduced vehicle operating costs
(VOC) as determined bv the improvement. or lack of further deterioration. of the project's road
surfaces. The VOC components are fuel and oil consumption. tires. spare parts, workshop labor,
depreciation. opportunity cost of capital. crew wages, insurance fees and overhead. The cost of these
components comes from a 1991 report bv Japan Bridge & Structure Institute. Inc. which shows costs
in 1991 prices. Therefore, the PCR economic analysis converted these costs to 1989 constant prices
using the domestic deflator. Construction supervision costs (Rs. 124.6 million), equipment (Rs. 12.1
million) and training (Rs. 56.4 million) were not associated with specific contracts. To include these
items in the analysis, they are attributed to the financial costs of specific contracts in the same
proportion as the costs of each individual item to the total.
3.     Following the convention adopted in the SAR, economic costs are assumed to be actual
financial costs net of taxes and duties (estimated at 14 percent) and then modified by a conversion
factor of 0.90 to be consistent with previous road projects in Sri Lanka.
4.     The cost of the components for six vehicle tvpes are estimated on a paved road in "good"
condition and then adjusted for improvements or deterioration in the road roughness. For each road
section. segregated vehicle counts were performed shortlv after the road rehabilitation was completed
and these are then used in the economic analysis table for each contract. Traffic over the estimated
life of the road or bridge work is assumed to grow at the five percent rate used in the SAR.
5.     Asphalt Overlay Sub-Proiects. For the asphalt overlay road contracts, economic benefits are
calculated as the improvement in road roughness as a result of the work completed. As such, the
comparison is between pre- and post-work road roughness measurements. The post completion road
roughness measurements were taken anvwhere from three to 12 months after the work was completed
in order allow the traffic to finish smoothing the surface bevond that possible with the steel wheeled
and rubber tired rollers used during construction.
6.     Surface Treatment Sub-Projects. For the road sections given surface treatment, the economic
analysis is done assuming that the surface treatment will prevent anv further deterioration of the
existing pavement for a period of up to seven years and that the road roughness will be held constant



- 30 -
since the surface treatment. combined with patching of base irregularities. will onlv marginally
improve riding qualitv. Therefore. the comparison for the economic analvsis is between the existing
roughness and what the predicted roughness would be if the road was not given the surface treatment.
For these five road contracts, the road roughness without the project is assumed to increase
approximatelv according to the chart. As shown there. and assuming normal maintenance. during the
first three vears the road roughness will increase
bv about ten percent as potholes and cracks
develop in its surface. By the end of year five.        Rougnness Over Time Without DBST
the potholes will, in manv places. have
expanded to small sections of pavement breakup
because of water intrusion and weakening of the    7,50
sub-grade bearing capacity. Roughness by this     7.00
time is estimated to be about 30 percent greater
than at the beginning of year one. Year six sees    8.50-
an increasing pace of deterioration as the        8.00
pavement continues to disappear and more water
can penetrate into the leveling course and base.  ssoe
Finallv, by year seven, roughness is estimated   5.00
to be approximatelv 70 percent greater than at
the start of vear one. By this time, the          450      1    2     3     4     5     6     7
pavement has completely disappeared in large                            YEAR
sections of the road and traffic is riding directly
on the badly damaged and very poor quality base.
7.     Bridge Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. The economic analysis of the project's bridge
reconstruction and rehabilitation work assumes that without the work an average of three bridges per
year would be out of service for three months and that traffic would have to be re-routed over
alternative routes with a 16 mile detour. The length of the detour was provided by RDA and is based
on an analysis of the project's bridge locations. The road roughness for the detour is assumed to be
7.000 mm/km following the convention of previous road projects in Sri Lanka and, according to
RDA. is largely consistent with actual conditions. Vehicle counts for the bridge economic analysis
are the mean for vehicle types from sub-projects 1, 5, 7, 8 and 9. These sub-projects were chosen
for the bridge vehicle counts because a majority of the bridge projects are located on these roads.
8.    In the SAR, the cost of the Kalu Ganga River bridge at Kalutara was included in the cost of
the Colombo-Galle road for purposes of the economic analysis. However, because of the cost
overruns on this bridge and other road contracts, the Colombo-Galle road contract was dropped from
the project. Therefore, in the PCR, the cost of the Kalutara Bridge is included with the other bridges
in the economic analysis of this component. Inclusion of the Kalutara Bridge with the other bridges
will probably understate the calculated economic benefit because alternative routes over this major
river would be substantially more than 16 miles. However, because RDA could not provide an
accurate estimate of the mileage for only one alternative route (there are at least a dozen potential
detours if this bridge was out of service), it is put with the other bridges in order to present a
conservative estimate of the economic benefits.



- 31 -
Economic Rate of Return Comparison
9.     The recalculated rates of return are sunmmarized in the table on page 32. and the calculations
are shown in the tables for each sub-contract included at the end of this annex. The recalculated
economic return for each of the project's sub-projects is substantially below the estimates done at
appraisal mainly because of cost overruns and problems associated with the country's civil
disturbances as discussed in Part I. In addition. the 1992 estimated total traffic counts for three road
sections (sub-projects 2. 3 and 9) were substantially below those at appraisal. However, a lack of
detail as to traffic mix and count locations prevented an analysis of the reasons for the differences.
10.    The ERR for Sub-Project 12 (Ekala-Gampaha Road surface treatment) is only 6.8 percent
versus the 21 percent envisioned at appraisal. Contributing to the lower than expected ERR was
RDA's and IDA's decision during the project's implementation to change the design standard for Sub-
projects 11 and 12 from a simple (largely sand sealing) double bituminous surface treatment (DBST)
operation to a deeper. more durable DBST (see para. 24) because of the road's potential for much
heavier traffic in the coming years. The design change plus the current relatively light traffic on this
road (estimated at 1185 vpd of which over 56 percent is cars and with no heavy lorries) meant that
the ERR would be lower than forecasted. As for the traffic count used in the ERR re-estimation, this
was done in March 1992--a year when the number of tourist visits was estimated at only two-thirds of
that experienced in the peak year of 1983 when over 870,000 people visited the island. Despite the
relatively low 1992 traffic counts, the rehabilitation investment in the Ekala-Gampaha Road may have
been justified as it is one of the main routes between the international airport at Katunayaka and
Route Al which goes to Kandy (the nation's second most frequent tourist destination). As such, it
will be expected to have very much heavier traffic counts as soon as tourism is restored to the pre-
civil disturbances level. For example, an approximate 10 percent ERR could be achieved if traffic
counts increased by 30 percent for each of the vehicle categories, plus the addition of about 20 heavy
lorries per day.
11.   The project's overall ERR is recalculated to be 33 percent versus the appraisal estimate of 82
percent. However, for three reasons, the PCR ERR cannot be considered a strict comparison to that
determined during appraisal. First, at the time of the project's completion. 11 of the project's
planned 23 road rehabilitation contracts and six of the 28 bridge contracts had been dropped because
of cost overruns and/or deteriorating security situations. This meant that out of a 573.8 road
kiiometers anticipated to be rehabilitated, only 291.7 kilometers (50.8 percent) were actually
completed and only 22 bridges rehabilitated. (Also contributing to the reduction in the number of
road kilometers was RDA's change in philosophy to increase the depth of DBST rehabilitation, but
over a shorter length of project roads.)
12.    Second, two road contracts (the Colombo-Horana sections) were transferred during
implementation from surface treatment to asphalt overlay and the costs used in appraisal rendered
irrelevant. Finally, after appraisal, two bridge rehabilitations were subsequently added and performed
by force account and. thus, were not included in the SAR ERR calculation.
13.   In spite of the substantial cost overruns experienced by the project (approximately 41 percent).
the resulting rate of return is still substantially above the country's 10 percent opportunity cost of
capital assumed in the SAR.



- 32 -
PROJECT ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN SUMNARY
'  SAR  <- ----------- PCR ------------
ERR         ERR         3/C         NPV
Asphatt Overtay Sub-Projects                           (1)         (1)         (2)         (3)
-- - - - - - - -  - -- - - -  - - - - - -           -- -  - -   -- - -  -   -- -  - -   .. .  . .
1   CoLr n2-Kandy (Al) (MP 9-32)                       145.0        80.5X       18.6      1390.8
2   Miriswatta-Gaancaha                                 143.9       47.8X        13.2       61.8
3   Jaate-Ekala-Gacahoa-YakkaLa                         59.0        25.4X         3.6        13.2
4   Oit Refinery Approach Road                          (4)         42.6X        10.2       43.2
5   Cotnabo-Kandy (Al) (MP 32-72)                       150.0       28.3X         4.3     1410.1
6   Kaady-Katugastota Road                              (4)         31.2X         5.3        48.3
7   Cotombo-Horana Road (Both Regions)                 (5)          59.7X       22.7       584.4
8   Kadawata-WeLisasa-Ragama                            (6)         21.0X         2.6        48.7
Surface Treatment Sub-Projects
9   Kurunegata-Naramrmta-Madape                          89.4        13.2X        1.1         4.0
10  Negrmbo-GiriutLa                                    25.0        11.9X         1.1         7.4
11  KeLaniya-8iyagama-mudungoda                         62.3        13.9X         1.3        14.6
12  Ekala-Gaapaha                                       21.0         6.8X        0.8         2.9
13  Minuiwangoda-Gampaha                                31.1        22.9X        2.6        21.2
14  Bridge RehabiLitation (22 Bridges)                 (4)          26.4X        3.0       724.5
Project Overall Economic Rate of Return
.. - - - - - - -  - -- - - -  - - - - - -           .. .  ....--      - -
Asphalt Overlay Corxonernt                             (4)          39.7%
Surface Treatment Component                            (4)           13.6X
Bridge Component                                        (4)         26.4X
Totat Project                                           82.0X       33.4%
Notes
(1) Economic Rate of Return
(2) Benefit-Cost Ratio at 101 opportuznity cost of capital
(3) Net Present Value at 101 opportunity cost of capital
(4) Detail not given in SAR or available from project files
(5) Trarnferrea from Surface Treatment Coamonent
(6)  New contract added during irpLementation



-----RDA PCR       >               Est.        Est.         Est.      Actual Avg.
Est.       Add    Total Fin. Total Econ.  Original    Post Proj.   Est.
Road Rehabilitation                           Length   Fin. Cost  Assoc.        Cost        Cost       Roughness    Roughness   Ltfe
(km)    (Rs. M.)    Cost       (Rs. N.)   (Rs. N.)       (mmn/k)       (mn/km)   (Yro.)
Asphalt Overlay Sections                                              (1)                     (2)
1  Colombo-Kandy (Al) (HP 9-32)                37.0      113.0       12.1      125.1         96.8         4950          2218       15
2  mirlwattu-Gwapaha                           4.0        9.0        1.0        10.0         7.?         4975          2279       15
3  iaela-Ekala-Gaspaha-Yakkala                  4.0        9.0        1.0        10.0         7.7         4863          2288       iS
4  Oil Refinery Aproach Road                    3.2        8.4        0.9         9.3         7.2         4950          1992       15
5  Colombo-Kandy (Al) (HP 32-72)               64.4      733.0       78.3      811.3        628.0         4700          3285       15
6  Kandy-Katugastota Road                       4.0       20.0        2.1        22.1        17.1         4813          2720       15
7  Colombo-Horana Road (Both Regions)          25.0       47.8        5.1       52.9         41.0         5300          2968       15
8  kadawata-UeliSasa-Ragama                     7.9       53.4        5.7        59.1        45.7         4800          2169       15
Subtotal                                   149.5     993.5      106.2      1099.7        851.2
Surface Treatment Sections
9  Kuronegala-Narammala-Nadape                 61.0       50.0        5.3        55.3        42.8         4900          6018       10      w
10  Negombo-Girfulla                            34.5       93.0        9.9       102.9        79.?         4900          4758       10     W
11  KeLaniya-Ilyagama-Mudungoda                 28.5       77.0        8.2       85.2         66.0         4900          4832       10
12  Ekale-Gamrpaha                               9.5       26.0        2.8       28.8         22.3         5000          5427       10
13  Ninuwangoda-Ganpaha                          8.7       24.0        2.6       26.6         20.6         4800          5168       10
Subtotal                                   142.2     270.0       28.9       298.9        231.3
14  Bridge Rehabilitation (22 Bridges)                    543.6       58.1      601.7        465.7                                  10
TOTAL COSTS                                          1807.1     193.1      2000.2       1548.2
=s==.u=n:= =C S:3= ==SzUZ   ====SZS:U=
Notes
(1)  In the RDA PCR, Constuction Supervision (Rs. 124.6 million), Equipment (Rs. 12.1 million)
and Training (Rs. 56.4 miltlion) were not aesociated with specific work items.
These costs are attritbuted to the financial costa of apecific iork items in
the same proportion as the costs shown for each individual Item to the total.
(2)  Taxes and duties estimated at 14 percent (SAR, page 16. paragraph 3.12) are
deducted fron the financial costs.  Based on  ssumptions used In previous road projects in Sri Lanka,
the economic costs are assumed to be 90 percent of the remaining financial costs.



ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES BY YEAR (Rs. MILLIONS)
1. FINANCIAL COSTS                                     PROJECT
1      2      3      4      5      6       7      a      9      10    11      12      13     14    TrOt
 .. -----      _      .      .       ...    -- --   .     .      .      .       .      ...    ------   ---------
1986.0     13.7    0.5   0.5    0.4    3.0    1.0    2.5    2.8    6.1   4.9    4.0    1.4    1.3   60.5          102.6
1987.0     80.1    0.2    0.2    0.1   54.8   0.4    0.8    0.9   35.4    1.6    1.4    0.5    0.4  114.?         291.6
19B8.0     30.4    1.0    1.0    0.9   79.4   2.1    5.1    5.7   13.4    9.9    8.2    2.8    2.6  347.0         509.4
1989.0      0.9    2.3    2.3    2.2  437.7   5.1   12.3   13.7   0.4   23.9   19.8    6.7    6.2   53.7          587.0
1990.0      0.1    4.7    4.7    4.4  150.8  10.5   25.0   27.9    0.0   48.7   40.3   13.6   12.6   11.9         355.2
1991.0             1.3    1.3    1.3   85.5    3.0    7.2    8.0            13.9   11.5    3.9    3.6   14.0      154.5
.. .            .....   .      .        ---- ----  ------ ----  ------ -----  ------  .        .         ---------
125.1   10.0  10.0    9.3  811.3  22.1   52.9   59.1   55.3  102.9  85.2   28.8  26.6  601.7    2000.3
2. ECONOMIC COSTS                                      PROJECT
1      2      3      4      5      6       7      8      9      10    11       12     13     14     TOTAL
1986.0     10.6    0.4    0.4    0.3    2.3   0.8    1.9    2.2    4.7    3.8   3.1    1.1    1.0   46.8           79.4
1987.0     62.0    0.1    0.1    0.1   42.5    0.3    0.7    0.7   27.4    1.3    1.1    0.4    0.3   88.8        225.7
1988.0     23.5    0.?    0.7    0.7   61.5    1.7    3.9    4.4   10.4    7.7    6.4    2.1    2.0  268.6        394.3
1989.0      0.6    1.8    1.8    1.? 338.8    4.0    9.5   10.6    0.3   18.5   15.3    5.2    4.8   41.5         454.3
1990.0      0.0    3.6    3.6    3.4  116.7   6.1   19.4   21.6    0.0   37.7   31.2   10.5    9.7    9.2         274.9
1991.0      0.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   66.2    2.3    5.5    6.2    0.0   10.8    8.9    3.0    2.8   10.8        119.6
96.8    7.7    7.7    7.2  628.0   17.1   41.0   45.7   42.8   79.7   66.0   22.3   20.6  465.7    1548.1
The distribution by year to indivi&ial projects is based on RDA estimates and has
a large element of arbitrary judgement.  However, this does not have a significant effect on the overall
results of the analysis.  the coets were Incurred from 1986 to 1991 and are considered to represent
end-of-1909 cost levels on average. The 1991 vehicle operating costs are deflated to end-1989
values.  therefore, the anlysis Is in constant 1989 costs.



- 35 -
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS ON A
Costs as of JuLy 1991      PAVED ROAD IN "GOOD" CONDITION (3800 mJbkm)
ECONWI1C COSTS (Rs. PER 1000 KM)
CAR, 4WD, MEDIUII    LARGE     LIGHT    MEUUIN    HEAVY
PICKUP     u         BtUS     LORRY    LORY       LOtRRY
Fut & 1 Oil         893.4   1202.0   2176.9    780.3   2252.6   2815.8
Tires               208.2    527.8    657.7    351.9    723.5   1600.8
Spere Parts         795.0    984.0    980.0   1242.5    937.5   2400.0
WorkshoD Labor      200.0    300.0    500.0    200.0    400.0    400.0
Dowrcition         1987.5   1230.0    918.8   2236.5   112S.0   2400.0
OCC t12x)          1530.1    750.8    861.1   1365.2    866.1    1847.6
Craw Wage             0.0    903.0   1220.3   1007.5   1147.7    956.4
Irrare            1111.8    270.5    314.2    448.8    28Z.3    281.0
OverhdoZ              0.0      96.2    120.2    192.3    192.3    160.3
Total Cost         6726.0   6264.3   7749.2   78-2.0   7927.o   12861.9
Esti1tad X                                         70.0     30.0
Weighted Avg.      6726.0   6264.3   7749.2               7135.6   12861.9
(Rs./1000 km)
Weighted Avg.     1088. 9   10085.5  12476.2              12647.5  20707.7
(Ra./1000 mitos)
Source: Review tudy of Previous FeeeibiLity Study, Jaa  Bridgo 4 Structure
Institute, irc., October 1991, peg* 7-8.



VOC RELATED TO ROAD ROUGHNESS
VOC: 2000-7500 n.km                                                             VOC: Road Roughness/Operating
(Rs. per 1000 miles)                                                            Cost Indices
ROUGHNESS          CAR, 41WD, MEDUIN    LARGE   LGT & MED   HEAVY               ROUGHNESS            CAR, 4W, MEDUIK        LARGE   LGT & NED   HEAVY
(_/k1)            PICKUP       BuS       OS        LORRY     LORRY              (sn/k)               PICKUP      BUS        BUS      LORRY      LORRY
2000.0            9139.6    8693.7   10679.6   10978.0   17477.3                2000.0                 84.4      86.2       85.6      86.8       84.4
2200.0            9327.3    8848.4   10879.3   11163.5   17836.2                2200.0                 86.1      87.7       87.2      88.3       86.1
2300.0            9421.1    8925.7   10979.1   11256.3   18015.7                2300.0                 87.0      88.5       88.0      89.0       87.0
2400.0            9515.0    9003.0   11078.9   11349.0   18195.1                2400.0                 87.9      89.3       88.8      89.7       87.9
2800.0            9890.4    9312.3   11478.1   11720.0   18913.0                2800.0                 91.3      92.3       92.0      92.7       91.3
3000.0            10078.1    9466.9   11677.7   11905.5   19271.9               3000.0                 93.1      93.9       93.6      94.1       93.1
3200.0            10265.8    9621.6   11877.4   12091.0   19630.9               3200.0                 94.8      95.4       95.2      95.6       94.8
3800.0            10828.9   10085.5   12476.2   12647.5   20707.7               3800.0                100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
4000.0            11016.6   10240.2   12675.8   12833.0   21066.6               4000.0                101.7      101.5     101.6      101.5     101.7
4800.0            11767.4   10858.7   13474.3   13575.0   22502.3               4800.0                108.7     107.7      108.0      107.3     108.7
4900.0            11861.2   10936.1   13574.1   13667.7   22681.8               4900.0                109.5     108.4      108.8      108.1     109.5
5000.0            11955.1   11013.4   13673.9   13760.5   22861.3               5000.0                110.4     109.2      109.6      108.8     110.4
5200.0            12142.8   11168.0   13873.5   13946.0   23220.2               5200.0                112.1     110.7      111.2      110.3     112.1
5300.0            12236.6   11245.4   13973.4   14038.7  23399.7                5300.0                113.0     111.5      112.0      111.0     113.0
5400.0            12330.5   11322.7   14073.2   14131.5   23579.1               5400.0                113.9     112.3      112.8      111.7     113.9
5500.0            12424.3   11400.0   14173.0   14224.2   23758.6               5500.0                114.7     113.0      113.6      112.5     114.7
6000.0            12893.6   11786.6   14672.0   14688.0  24655.9                6000.0                119.1      116.9     117.6      116.1     119.1
6200.0            13081.3   11941.3   14871.6   14873.5   25014.9               6200.0                120.8      118.4     119.2      117.6     120.8 >
6400.0            13269.0   12095.9   15071.3   15059.0   25373.8               6400.0                122.5      119.9     120.8      119.1     122.5
6500.0            13362.8   12173.2   15171.1   15151.7   25553.3               6500.0                123.4      120.7     121.6      119.8     123.4
6700.0            13550.5   12327.9   15370.7   15337.2   25912.2               6700.0                125.1      122.2     123.2      121.3     125.1
6900.0            13738.2   12482.5   15570.3   15522.7  26271.1                6900.0                126.9      123.8     124.8      122.7     126.9
7000.0            13832.1   12559.8   15670.1   15615.5   26450.6               7000.0                127.7     124.5      125.6      123.5     127.7
7200.0            14019.8   12714.5   15869.7   15801.0   26809.5               7200.0                129.5     126.1      127.2      124.9     129.5
7400.0            14207.5   12869.1   16069.4   15986.5   27168.4               7400.0                131.2     127.6      128.8      126.4     131.2
7500.0            14301.3   12946.4   16169.2   16079.2   27347.9               7500.0                132.1     128.4      129.6      127.1     132.1
Incremental increase     2.6%       2.3%      2.4%       2.2X      2.6X
Source:  Derived from other tables on this and previous page.                   in VOC per 300 on/km
Source: Derived from SAR, Second Roads Project, Annex 4, pagc 3S



18-feb-93                                                     SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT (LN 2517-CE) PCR
Subproject #1
Coloobo-Kandy (Al) (HP 9-32)
Traffic factor, VPD to *nrutl           365         Deflator       0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY
loughness (iku) w/o project          4950.0         (6/91 to 12/89)           PICKUP   BUS    BUS   LORRY   LORRT
Poughness (m/km) w/ project          2277.7
Length (miles)                         37.0         Annual Growth Rote          5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)     125.1
Opening Year                           1989         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD      4887    901      761    1633     100
Est. Life (years)                        15
VOC, without Project      9211.4  8485.8 10535.8 10602.5 17614.6
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project         7186.7 6817.7  8382.5  8601.5 13142.8
(Rs. 1000/miles)                                                                              Lo
Vehicle Operating Cost without Project                           Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/NED HEAVY                          CAR, 4WD HEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY             VOC    CAPITAI   Ntl
Year       PICKUP   WUS    BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL           Year      PICKUP   BUS    BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST   ULNEFI1
1986                                                             1986                                                       0.0      10.6   -10.6
1987                                                             1987                                                       0.0    62.0   -62.0
1988                                                             1988                                                       0.0    23.5   -23.5
1989      525.2   89.2   93.5  202.0   20.5  930.4               1989     409.7   71.7   74.4  163.9   16.0  735.7   194.7            0.6   194.1
1990      551.4   93.7    98.2  212.1   21.6  976.9              1990     430.2   75.2   78.1   172.1    16.8  m.s    204.5           0.0   204.5
1991      579.0   98.3  103.1  222.?   22.7  1025.8              191      451.7   79.0   82.0  180.7   17.7  811.1   214.7            0.0   214.7
1992      607.9  103.3  108.3  233.8   23.8  1077.1              192      474.3   83.0   86.1  189.7   18.6  851.7   225.4            0.0   225.4
1993      638.3  108.4  113.7  245.5   25.0  1130.9              193      498.0   87.1   90.5  199.2    19.5  894.3   236.7           0.0   236.7
1994      670.3  113.8  119.4  257.8   26.2  1187.5              1994     522.9   91.5   95.0  209.1   20.5  939.0   248.5            0.0   248.5
1995      703.8  119.5  125.3  270.7   27.5  1246.9              1995     549.1   96.0   99.7  219.6   21.5  985.9   260.9            0.0   260.9
1996      739.0   125.5  131.6  284.2   28.9  1309.2             1996     576.5  100.8  104.7  230.6   22.6 1035.2   274.0            0.0   274.0
1997      775.9  131.8  138.2  298.4   30.4  1374.7              1997     605.4   105.9  110.0  242.1   23.7 1087.0   287.7           0.0   287.7
1998      814.7  138.4  145.1  313.3   31.9  1443.4              1998     635.6  111.2  115.4  254.2   24.9 1141.3   302.1            0.0   302.1
1999      855.4   145.3  152.4  329.0   33.5  1515.6             1999     667.4   116.7  121.2  266.9   26.1 1198.4   317.2           0.0   317.2
2000      898.2  152.6  160.0  345.5   35.1  1591.3              2000      700.8  122.6  127.3  280.3   27.4 1258.3   333.0           0.0   333.0
2001      943.1   160.2  168.0  362.7   36.9  1670.9             2001      735.8  128.7  133.6  294.3   28.8 1321.2   349.7           0.0   349.7
2002      990.3  168.2  176.4  380.9   38.7  1754.5              2002      m.6  135.1  140.3  309.0   30.2 1387.3   367.2             0.0   367.2
2003     1039.8  176.6  185.2  399.9   40.7  1842.2              2003     811.2  141.9  147.3  324.4   31.7 1456.6   385.5            0.0   385.5
2004                                                             2004                                                     ------   ------
2005                                                             2005                                                     4201.8    96.7  4105.1
.4 .4.-  .. ....+                                                                                    +.
Discount Z a  10.001  p.o. IPV:VOC Savngs * 1469.8   B/C Ratio a  18.6         NPV *  1390.8        |    ERR   80.55
Discount S    12.00X  p.s. NPV:VOC Savngs - 1228.0   9/C Ratio *  16.2         NPV *  1151.9
. --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - 



18-feb-93                                                       SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECI (LN 2517-CE)  PCR
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ + +*+"                                                   . .  .       + +    -+  +    +++. +++. ++++++ ...... 4 +  4+++++* ............ +    + .
Subproject n2
Niriswtto-C6apaha
Traffic Factor, VPD to annal             365         Deflator        0.770S    CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/HED HEAVY
Roughness Cm/km) w/o project          4975.0          (6/91 to 12/89)           PICKtUP    IS     US    LORRY  LORT
Roushness CIWkm) w/ project           2279.0
Length (miles)                           4.0         Amual Growth Rate            5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.OOX
fin. Cap. cost (1989 Ns. million)       10.0
Opening Year                            1991         Est. 1992 traffic, VD        2529     530      537     378      19
Est. Life (years)                         15
VOC, without Project      9211.4  8U85.8 10535.8 10602.5 17614.6
(Rs. 1000/mIles)
VOC. with Project         7259.0  6877.2  8459.4  8673.0 13881.1
(Is. 1000/mIles)
OD
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                             Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD HEDUIN  LARGE  EGHT/NED HEAVY                            CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY               VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP W  US      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL           Tear      PICKUP   BUS     BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                              1986                                                          0.0      0.4      -0.4
198?                                                              198"                                                          0.0      0.1      -0.1
1988                                                              1908                                                          0.0      0.?      -0.1
1989                                                              1989                                                          0.0       1.8     -1.8
1990                                                               1990                                                         0.0       3.6     -3.6
1991       32.4     6.3      7.9     5.6     0.5    52.6           1991       25.5     5.1     6.3      4.6     0.4   41.8     10.7       1.0      9.7
1992       34.0     6.6     8.3      5.9     0.5    55.2           1992       26.8     5.3     6.6     4.8      0.4   43.9     11.3       0.0     11.3
1993       35.7     6.9     8.7      6.1     0.5    57.9           1993       28.1     5.6     7.0      5.0     0.4   46.1     11.8       0.0     11.8
1994       37.5     7.2     9.1      6.5     0.5    60.8           1994       29.5     5.9     7.3      5.3     0.4   48.4     12.4       0.0     12.4
1995       39.4     7.6     9.6      6.8     0.6    63.9           1995       31.0     6.2     7.7      5.5     0.4   50.9     13.0       0.0     13.0
1996       41.3     8.0    10.0      7.1     0.6    67.1           1996       32.6     6.5     8.1      5.8     0.5   53.4     13.7       0.0     13.7
1997       43.4     8.4    10.5      1.5     0.6    70.4           17         34.2     6.8     8.5     6.1      0.5   56.1     14.4      0.0      14.4
1998       45.6     8.8    11.1      7.8     o.?    73.9          1998        35.9     7.1     8.9     6.4      0.5   58.9     15.1      0.0      15.1
199        47.9     9.2    11.6    8.2       o.?    17.6           1999       37.7     r.5     9.3     6.7      0.5   61.8     15.8      0.0      15.8
2000       50.3     9.7    12.2      8.6     o.?    81.5           2000       39.6     7.9     9.8      7.1     0.6   64.9     16.6       0.0     16.6
2001       52.8    10.2    12.8    9.1       0.8    85.6          2001        41.6     8.3    10.3      7.4     0.6   68.1     17.5       0.0     17.5
2002       55.4    10.7    13.5    9.5       0.8    89.9          2002        43.7     B.?   10.8       7.8     0.6   71.6     18.3      0.0      18.3
2003       58.2    11.2    14.1    10.0      0.8    94.4           2003       45.8     9.1    11.3      8.2     0.7   75.1     19.2       0.0     19.2
2004       61.1    11.8    14.8    10.5      0.9    99.1           2004       48.1     9.6    11.9     8.6      0.7   78.9     20.2       0.0     20.2
2005       64.1    12.4    15.6    11.0      0.9   104.0          2005        50.5    10.0    12.5     9.0      0.7   82.8     21.2       0.0     21.2
231.2      7.7    223.5
Discount Z -  10.00S p.m.  NPV:VOC Sewvgs a  66.8    8/C Ratio a   13.2          NPV *    61.8         I    ERR   47.8X
..  ..  ..................................... ......... .................. .................... ........ ..... .... ... ,..  ..  .  --------------
Discount S a  12.00S  p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs *   53.9    S/C Ratio a   11.5        WPV *    49.2
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



18-Feb-93                                                       SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT ([N 2517-CE)  PCR
Subproject n3
Joele-Ekale-Gampoha-Yakkala
Traffic Factor, VPD to annual            365          Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4UD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT A N HEAVY
Roughness (rn/k) w/o project          4863.0          (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (mnm/k) s/ project          2288.0
Length (miles)                            4.0         Annual Growth Rate           5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)        10.0
Opening Tear                             1991         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD        669      155     146     215        0
Est. Life (years)                          15
VOC, without Project       9066.8  8366.7 10382.0 10459.5 17338.0
(as. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project          7259.0  6877.2  8459.4  8673.0 13881.1
(Rs. 1000/miles)
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                              Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                             CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHTINED HEAVY                VOC    CAPITAL    NEI
Year       PICKUP    US      8US    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year      PICKUP   BUS      Bus    LORRY   LORRT   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COSI    BENEFII
1986                                                               1986                                                           0.0      0.4      -0.4
1987                                                               1987                                                           0.0      0.1      -0.1
1988                                                               1988                                                           0.0      0.?      -0.?
1989                                                               1989                                                           0.0      1.8      -1.8
1990                                                                1990                                                          0.0      3.6      -3.6
1991        8.4      1.8     2.1     3.1     0.0    15.5            1991        6.8     1.5      1.7     2.6     0.0   12.5       2.9       1.0      1.9
1992        8.9      1.9     2.2     3.3     0.0    16.2            1992        7.1     1.6      1.8     2.7     0.0   13.2       3.1      0.0       3.1
1993        9.3      2.0     2.3     3.4     0.0    17.1            1993        7.4     1.6      1.9     2.9     0.0   13.8       3.2      0.0       3.2
1994        9.8     2.1      2.4     3.6     0.0    17.9            1994        7.8     1.7      2.0     3.0     0.0   14.5       3.4      0.0       3.4
1995       10.3     2.2      2.6     3.8     0.0    18.8            1995        8.2     1.8      2.1     3.2     0.0   15.2       3.6       0.0      3.6
1996       10.8     2.3      2.7     4.0     0.0    19.7            19"6        8.6     1.9      2.2     3.3     0.0   16.0       3.7      0.0       3.7
1997       11.3      2.4     2.8     4.2     0.0    20.7            1997        9.0     2.0      2.3     3.5     0.0   16.8       3.9      0.0       3.9
1998       11.9     2.5      3.0     4.4     0.0    21.8            1998        9.5     2.1      2.4     3.6     0.0   17.7       4.1      0.0       4.1
1999       12.5     2.7      3.1     4.6     0.0    22.9            1999       10.0     2.2      2.5     3.8     0.0   18.5       4.3      0.0       4.3
2000       13.1      2.8     3.3     4.9      0.0    24.0           2000       10.5     2.3      2.7     4.0     0.0   19.5       4.5       0.0      4.5
2001       13.7      2.9     3.4     5.1      0.0    25.2           2001       11.0     2.4      2.8     4.2     0.0   20.4       4.8       0.0      4.8
2002       14.4      3.1     3.6     5.3      0.0    26.5           2002       11.5     2.5      2.9     4.4     0.0   21.5       5.0       0.0      5.0
2003       15.1      3.2     3.8     5.6     0.0    27.8           2003        12.1     2.7      3.1     4.7     0.0   22.5       5.3      0.0       5.3
2004       15.9      3.4     4.0     5.9     0.0    29.2           2004        12.7     2.8      3.2     4.9     0.0   23.7       5.5      0.0       5.5
2005       16.7      3.6     4.2     6.2     0.0    30.6           2005        13.4     2.9      3.4     5.1     0.0   24.8       5.8      0.0       5.8
63.2      7.7      55.5
*.                                                                                                    . ....  ............+ +-... 
Disco: nt I a  10.O0O  p.:.  NPV:VOC Senwgs :   18.3    O/C Ratio *    3.6        NPV *    13.2 |       |     ERR   25.4%        |
Discount X -  12.00S  p.a.  NPV:VOC Sevngs a   14.7    8/C Ratio a    3.1         NPV a    10.0
--.-..  . . . ...------.-.-.-.-..---.-.-_-...------.-.-....--------.-.-.--



18-feb-93                                                        SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT (LN 2517-CE)  PCR
Subproject 94
oil Refinery Approach Road
Traffic Factor, VPD to amuul              365         Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/NED HEAVY
toughness (rn/ko) u/O project          4950.0         (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (=/km) wl project            1992.0
Length (miles)                            3.2         Arviual Growth Rate          5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00S   5.00X
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)         9.3
Opening Year                             1991         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD        1435     816     416      558      42
Est. Life (years)                          iS
VOC, without Project       9211.4  8485.8 10535.8 10602.5 17614.6
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project          7042.0  6698.5  8228.7  8458.6 13466.2
(Rs. 1000/mites)
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                              Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/HED HEAVY                             CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                VOC    CAPITAL    NE I
Year       PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year      PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    DLNEFII
1986                                                                1986                                                          0.0       0.3     -0.3
1987                                                                1987                                                          0.0       0.1      0.1
1988                                                                1988                                                          0.0      0.?      -0.
1989                                                                1989                                                          0.0       1.7     -1.7
1990                                                                1990                                                          0.0       3.4     -3.4
1991       14.7      7.7     4.9     6.6     0.8    34.7            1991       11.2     6.1      3.8     5.3     0.6   27.0       7.7       1.0      6.7
1992       15.4     8.1      5.1     6.9     0.9    36.4            1992       11.8     6.4      4.0     5.5     0.7   28.4       8.1       0.0      8.1
1993       16.2     8.5      5.4     7.3     0.9    38.2            1993       12.4     6.?      4.2     5.8     0.?   29.8       8.5       0.0      8.5
1994       17.0     8.9      5.6     7.6      1.0    40.2           1994       13.0     7.0      4.4     6.1     0.7   31.3       8.9       0.0      8.9
1995       17.9     9.4      5.9     8.0      1.0    42.2           1995       13.7     7.4      4.6     6.4     0.8   32.8       9.3       0.0      9.3
1996       18.8     9.8      6.2     8.4      1.1    44.3           1996       14.3     7.8      4.9     6.7     0.8   34.5       9.8       0.0      9.8
1997       19.7    10.3      6.5     8.8      1.1    46.5          1I"?        15.1     8.1      5.1     7.0     0.8   36.2      10.3       0.0     10.3
1998       20.7    10.8      6.9     9.3      1.2    48.8           1998       15.8     8.6      5.4     7.4     0.9   38.0      10.8       0.0     10.8
1999       21.7    11.4      7.2     9.7      1.2    51.2           199        16.6     9.0      5.6     7.8     0.9   39.9      11.3       0.0     11.3
2000       22.8    11.9      7.6    10.2      1.3    53.8           2000       17.4     9.4      5.9     8.1      1.0   41.9     11.9       0.0     11.9
2001       24.0    12.5      7.9    10.7      1.3    56.5           2001       18.3     9.9      6.2     8.6      1.0  44.0      12.5       0.0     12.5
2002       25.1    13.2      8.3    11.3      1.4    59.3           2002       19.2    10.4      6.5     9.0      1.1   46.2     13.1       0.0     13.1
2003       26.4    13.8      8.8    11.8      1.5    62.3           2003       20.2    10.9      6.8     9.4      1.1   48.5     13.8       0.0     13.8
2004       27.7    14.5      9.2    12.4      1.6    65.4           2004       21.2    11.5      7.2     9.9      1.2   50.9     14.5       0.0     14.5
2005       29.1    15.3      9.7    13.0      1.6    68.7           2005       22.3    12.0      7.5    10.4     1.2   53.5      15.2       0.0     15.2
165.7      7.2    158.5
.. ....+ +.+
Discount X    10.00X  p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs *   47.9    B/C Ratio *   10.2         NPV       43.2              ERR   42.62
Discount X:   12.00S  p.a.  NPV:VOC Savngs z   38.6    B/C Ratio *    8.8         NPV       34.2
- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -



18-Feb-93                                                          SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT (UN 2517-CE)  PCR
++++-++-++++++++-++++++++. . . . . . . . . .           . . . . .+++-#+.*.++-ff+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ .++++ .    .                                          
Suibptolect #5
Colo-Kandy (Al) (MP 32-72)
Traffic Factor, VPD to annual              365          Deflator         0.7705    CAR, 4W  MEDUIN  LARGE  LGNT/HED HEAVY
Roughness (C/km) u/O project            4700.0           (6/91 to 12/89)             PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (mm/ku) ul project            3284.7
length (Miles)                            64.4          Annual Growth Rate             5.00%   5.00%   5.00D   5.00%   5.00%
fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)        811.3
Opening Year                               1991          Est. 1992 traffic, VPD        4184      902    1109    1419        34
Est. Life (years)                            15
VOC, without Project        9066.8  8366.7 10382.0 10459.5 17338.0
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project           7331.3  6936.8  8536.3  8744.4 14019.3
(Rs. 1000/miles)
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                                 Vehicle Operating Cost Uith Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/HED HEAVY                                 CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                 VOC    CAPITAL    IEi
Year        PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL              Year       PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST          iLNEFII
-- -- --  - -- -- --    -- -- -   -*-  -   -  -  - - -                 -- - - - -  - - - - -  - -- - - -  - - - - -  - - -    -- - - .-.-.-.-.... ....
1986                                                                   1986                                                             0.0       2.3      -2.3
1987                                                                   1987                                                             0.0      42.5      42.5
1988                                                                   1988                                                             0.0      61.5    -61.5
1989                                                                   1989                                                             0.0    338.8   -338.8
1990                                                                   1990                                                             0.0    116.7   -116.7
1991      848.8   168.9   257.6   332.1    13.2  1620.6                1991      686.4   140.0   211.8   2T7.7    10.7 1326.5    294.1           66.2    227.9
1992      891.3   177.3   270.5   348.7    13.9  1701.7                1992      720.?   147.0   222.4   291.5    11.2 1392.9    308.8            0.0    308.8
1993      935.9   186.2   284.0   366.2    14.5  1786.8                1993      756.?   154.4   233.5   306.1    11.8 1462.5    324.3            0.0    324.3
1994      982.6   195.5   298.2   384.5    15.3  1876.1                1994      794.6   162.1   245.2   321.4    12.3 1535.6    340.5            0.0    340.5
1995     1031.8   205.3   313.2   403.7    16.0  1969.9                1995      834.3   170.2   257.5   337.5    13.0 1612.4    357.5            0.0    357.5
1996     1083.4   215.5   328.8   423.9    16.8  2068.4                1996      876.0   178.7   270.4   354.4    13.6 1693.0    375.4            0.0    375.4
1997     1137.5   226.3   345.2   445.1    17.7  2171.8                1997      919.8   187.6   283.9   372.1    14.3 1777.7    394.2            0.0    394.2
1998     1194.4   237.6   362.5   467.3    18.6  2280.4                1998      965.8   197.0   298.1   390.7    15.0 1866.6    413.9            0.0    413.9
1999      1254.1   249.5   380.6   490.7    19.5  2394.4               1999      1014.1   206.9   313.0   410.2    15.8 1959.9    434.6           0.0    434.6
2000      1316.8   262.0   399.7   515.2    20.5  2514.2               2000      106.4.8   217.2   328.6   430.7    16.5 2057.9    456.3          0.0    456.3
2001      1382.7   275.1   419.?   541.0    21.5  2639.9               2001      1118.0   228.1   345.0   452.3    17.4 2160.8    479.1           0.0    479.1
2002      1451.8   288.8   440.6   568.0    22.6  2771.9               2002      1173.9   239.5   362.3   474.9    18.2 2268.8    503.0           0.0    503.0
2003      1524.4   303.3   462.7   596.4    23.7  2910.5               2003      1232.6   251.4   380.4   498.6    19.2 2382.3    528.2           0.0    528.2
2004      1600.6   318.4   485.8   626.2    24.9  3056.0               2004      1294.3   264.0   399.4   523.6    20.1 2501.4    554.6           0.0    554.6
2005      1680.7   334.3   510.1   657.6    26.1  3208.8               2005      1359.0   277.2   419.4   549.7    21.1 2626.4    582.3           0.0    582.3
6346.7    628.0   5718.8
+............... .  +-.
Discount I a  10.00S  p.s.  NPV:VOC Ssvngs a 1834.7    8/C Ratio *    4.3             NPV *  1410.1          |      ERR  28.3X   -
... ..................... .......................... ........ .         .    ...............3.........        ---..-----
Discount S a  12.00S p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs * 1478.6    B/C Ratio *    3.?              NPV *  1083.9
--------.4. .-...------.....-----------.-.-.-.--



18-Feb-93                                                        SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT (LN 2517-CE)  PCR
Subproject 6
Kandy-Katuuastota Road
Traffic Factor. VPD to  wnnual            365          Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY
Roughness (rn/ku) w/o project          4813.0          (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP  BWS       WUS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (mm/k) w/ project            2720.0
Length (miles)                            4.0          Annuat Growth Rate           5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)        22.1
Opening Year                             1991          Est. 1992 traffic, VPD       2655      866     659      681        1
Est. Life (years)                          15
VOC, without Project       9066.8  8366.7 10382.0 10459.5 17338.0
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project          7620.5  7175.1  8843.9  9030.3 14572.5
(Rs. 1000/miles)
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                               Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                              CAR, 4WD HEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                VOC    CAPI TAL    NEI
Year       PICKUP   BuS      IS    LORRY   LORRT   TOTAL              Year      PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORIt   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFII
1986                                                                1986                                                            0.0       0.8     -0.8
198T                                                                1987                                                            0.0      0.3      -0.3
1988                                                                 98                                                             0.0       1.7     -1.7
1198                                                                 18                                                             0.0      4.0      -4.0
11990                                                                990                                                            0.0      8.1      -8.1
1991       33.5    10.1      9.5      9.9     0.0    63.0            1991       28.1     8.6      8.1     8.6      0.0   53.4       9.5      2.3       7.2
1992       35.1    10.6    10.0    10.4       0.0    66.19 l2                   29.5     9.1      8.5     9.0      0.0   56.1      10.0      0.0      10.0
199        36.9    11.1    10.5    10.9       0.0    69.4           199         31.0     9.5      8.9     9.4      0.0   58.9      10.5      0.0      10.5
1994       38.7    11.?    11.0    11.5       0.0    72.9           199         32.6    10.0      9.4     9.9      0.0   61.9      11.0      0.0      11.0
1995       40.?    12.2    11.6    12.0       0.0    76.6            195        34.2    10.5      9.9    10.4      0.0   65.0      11.6      0.0      11.6
1996       42.7    12.9    12.1    12.6       0.0    80.4            196        35.9    11.0    10.3    10.9       0.0   68.2      12.2      0.0      12.2
1997       '4.9    13.5    12.?    13.3       0.0    84.4            1997       37.7    11.6    10.9    11.5       0.0   71.6      12.8      0.0      12.8
1998       47.1    14.2    13.4    13.9       0.0    88.6            199        39.6    12.2    11.4    12.0       0.0   7s.2      13.4      0.0      13.4
1999       49.5    14.9    14.1    14.6       0.0    93.1            199        41.6    12.8    12.0    12.6       0.0   79.0      14.1      0.0      14.1
2000       51.9    15.6    14.8    15.4       0.0    97.7            2000       43.6    13.4    12.6    13.3       0.0   82.9      14.8       0.0     14.8
2001       54.5    16.4    15.5    16.1       0.0   102.6            2001       45.8    14.1    13.2    13.9       0.0   87.1      15.5       0.0     15.5
2002       57.2    17.2    16.3    16.9       0.0   107.7            2002       48.1    14.8    13.9    14.6       0.0   91.4      16.3       0.0     16.3
2003       60.1    18.1    17.1    17.8       0.0   113.1           2003        50.5    15.5    14.6    15.4       0.0   96.0      17.1       0.0     17.1
2004       63.1    19.0    17.9    18.7       0.0   118.8           2004        53.0    16.3    15.3    16.1       0.0  100.8      18.0       0.0     18.0
2005       66.3    19.9    18.8    19.6       0.0   124.7           2005        55.7    17.1    16.0    16.9       0.0  105.8      18.9       0.0     1S.9
205.9     17.1    188.7
+.-.-.......--------------.-.-..---..---.-..---..---          -       -      -       -      -              --+ + -- +
Discount I a  10.002  p.a.  MPV:VOC Ssvngs a   59.5    8/C Ratio a    5.3          NPV *     48.3         |     ERR   31.21
.... ..... ._. ......... .............. ....... .............. ... .... .. .. .... ......_. ....... .    . ...  . . --...----.-.---..---...----..--.-- 
Discount I a  12.00S  p.s.  MPv:VOC Savnss *    8.0    fJ/C Ratio *    4.6         NPV -    37.5
------------------------------------------------------------....----------------...---.-..---. 4



18-Feb-93                                                         SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECT (LN 2517-CE)  PCR
Sthproject #7
Cotlo o-Norans Road (Both Regions)
Traffic Factor, VPD to annual              365         Deflator         0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/NED HEAVY
Roughness (m/Wk) w/o project            5300.0          (6/91 to 12/89)             PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (nm/ku) w/ project            2968.4
Length (miles)                            25.0          Annual Growth Rate            5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)         52.9
Opening Year                              1991          Est. 1992 traffic, VPD        4097     555      836    1140       110
Est. Life (years)                           Is
VOC. without Project        9428.3  8664.5 10766.5 10816.9 18029.4
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project           7765.1  7294.3  8997.7  9173.2 14849.0
(Rs. 1000/m1les)
Vehicle Operating Cost UIthout Project                                Vehicle Operating Cost Uith Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD HEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/HED HEAVY                               CAR, .4  MEDUIN  LARGE  LCHT/NED HEAVY                 VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP    US       BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year       PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COSI    BENEFIT
1986                                                                 1986                                                             00        1.9     -1.9
1987                                                                 1967                                                             0.0       0.7     -0.7
1988                                                                 1988                                                             0.0      3.9      -3.9
1989                              1989                                                                                                0.0      9.5      -9.5
1990                                                                 1990                                                             0.0      19.4     19.4
1991      335.7    41.8    78.2   107.2    17.2   580.1              1991       276.5    35.2    65.4    90.9    14.2  482.1         98.0       5.5     92.5
1992      352.5    43.9    82.1   112.5    18.1   609.1              192        290.3    36.9   6".6    9 .4    14.9  506.2    102.9           0.0    102.9
1993      370.1    46.1    86.2   118.1    19.0   639.6              1993       304.8    38.8    72.1   100.2    15.6  531.5    108.0          0.0    108.0
19        388.6    48.4    90.6   124.1    20.0   671.5              1994       320.1    40.?    Is.?   105.2    16.4  558.1    113.4          0.0    113.4
1995      408.0    50.8    95.1   130.3    20.9   705.1             l19         336.1    42.8    79.5   110.5    17.3  586.0    119.1           0.0    119.1
196       428.4    53.3    9.8   136.8    22.0   740.4               1996       352.9    44.9    83.4   116.0    18.1  615.3    125.1           0.0    125.1
197       449.9    56.0   104.8   143.6    23.1   M7.4               19         370.5    47.1    87.6   121.8    19O  646.1    131.3            0.0    131.3
198       472.4    58.8   110.1   150.8    24.3   816.3              199        389.0    49.5    92.0   127.9    20.0  678.4    137.9          0.0    13W.9
1999      496.0    61.7   115.6   158.3    25.5   857.1              199        408.5    52.0    96.6   134.3    21.0  712.3    144.8           0.0    144.8
2000      520.8    64.8   121.3   166.2    26.7   899.9              2000       428.9    54.6   101.4   141.0    22.0  747.9    152.0           0.0    152.0
2001      546.8    68.1   127.4   174.6    28.1   944.9              2001       450.4    57.3   10.5   148.0    23.1  785.3    159.6            0.0    159.6
2002      574.2    71.5   133.8   183.3    29.5   992.2              2002       472.9    60.2   111.8   155.4    24.3  824.6    167.6           0.0    167.6
2003      602.9   7r.1   140.5   192.5    31.0  1041.8               2003       496.5    63.2   117.4   163.2    25.5  865.8    176.0           0.0    176.0
2004      633.0    78.8   147.5   202.1    32.5  1093.9              2004       521.3    66.3   123.3   171.4    26.8  909.1    184.8           0.0    184.a
2005      664.7    82.7   154.9   212.2    34.1  1148.6              2005       547.4    69.7   129.4   179.9    28.1  954.5    194.0           0.0    194.0
2114.7     41.0   2073.8
DiscoLmt X a  10.002  p.a.  UPV :VOC Sawngs   611.3    B/C Ratio *   22.r           NPV *   584.4|    ERR   59.7X
_._._.__.................... ... .........._.__.,....................... ............ .........             -------.........-..------_-------. _. _ _ 
DiscoLant Z a  12.00S p..  WPV :VOC Savngs   492.7    B/C Ratio *   19.8            NPV *   467.8
-.-... .... ...... ........... . . ... ... .... ..---------. .-. .----. ...- -..-.- -.----- .-



18-feb-93                                                             SRI LANKA SECOND ROADS PROJECI CLN 2517-CE)  PCR
SubproJect #8
Kadaw tet-elisasa-Ragema
Traffic factor, VPD to annual                365          Deflator         0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY
Roughness (n/kin) w/o project             4800.0           (6/91 to 12/a9)              PICKUP   Bus    WBS    LORRY   LORRY
Roughness (nn/km) w/ project              2169.0
Length (miles)                               7.9          Annual Growth Rate              5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)           59.1
Opening Tear                                1991           Est. 1992 traffic, VPD         1029      238      203      563      234
Est. Life (years)                             is
VOC, uithout Project         9066.8  8366.7 10382.0 10459.5 17338.0
(Rs. 1000/miles)
VOC, with Project            7186.7  6817.7  8382.5  8601.5 13742.8
(Rc. 1000/miles)
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                                    Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECOW.
CAR, 4UD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                                   CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                   VOC    CAPITAL    NEI
Year        PICKUP   BUS       BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL               Year       PICKUP   BUS        BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    8tNEFiI
1986                                                                     1986                                                                0.0       2.2      -2.2
1987                                                                     1987                                                               0.0        0.7      -0.7
1988                                                                     1988                                                               0.0        4.4      -4.4
1989                                                                     1989                                                               0.0       10.6     -10.6
1990                                                                     1990                                                               0.0       21.6     -21.6
1991        25.6      5.5      5.8    16.2    11.1    U.2                19"1        20.3      4.5      4.7    13.3       8.8   51.6        12.6       6.2       6.4
1992        26.9      5.7      6.1    17.0    11.7    67.4               1992        21.3      4.7      4.9    14.0       9.3   54.1        13.3       0.0      13.3
1993        28.2      6.0      6.4    17.8    12.3    70.8               1993        22.4      4.9      5.2    14.7       9.7   56.9        13.9       0.0      13.9
1994        29.7      6.3      6.7    18.7    12.9    74.3               1994        23.5      5.2      5.4    15.4    10.2   59.7          14.6       0.0      14.6
1995        31.1      6.6      7.0    19.7    13.5    78.0               1995        24.?       5.4      5.7    16.2    10.7   62.7         15.3       0.0      15.3
1996        32.7      7.0      7.4    20.6    14.2    81.9               1996        25.9      5.7      6.0    17.0    11.3   65.8          16.1       0.0      16.1
1997        34.3      7.3      7.8    21.7    14.9    86.0               1997        27.2      6.0      6.3    17.8    11.8   69.1          16.9       0.0      16.9
1998        36.1      7.7      8.1    22.8    15.7    90.3               1998        28.6      6.3      6.6    18.7    12.4   72.6          17.8       0.0      17.8
1999        37.9      8.1      8.6    23.9    16.5    94.8               19"         30.0      6.6      6.9    19.6    13.0   76.2          18.6       0.0      18.6
2000        39.7      8.5      9.0    25.1    17.3    99.6               2000        31.5      6.9       7.2    20.6    13.7   80.0         19.6       0.0      19.6
2001        41.7      8.9      9.4    26.3    18.1   104.6               2001        33.1      7.3       7.6    21.7    14.4   84.0        20.6        0.0      20.6
2002        43.8      9.4      9.9    27.7    19.1   109.8               2002        34.7      7.6      8.0    22.7    15.1   88.2         21.6        0.0      21.6
2003        46.0      9.8    10.4    29.0    20.0   115.3                2003        36.5      8.0      8.4    23.9    15.9   92.6         22.7        0.0      22.7
2004        48.3     10.3    10.9    30.5    21.0   121.0                2004        38.3      8.4      8.8    25.1    16.7   97.2         23.8        0.0      23.8
2005        50.7    10.8    11.5    32.0    22.1   127.1                 2005        40.2      8.8      9.3    26.3    17.5  102.1         25.0        0.0      25.0
272.4      45.7    226.7
*   ....,,...,..   ........ +--
Discount I -  10.00S  p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs *   78.7    I/C Ratio a    2.6                NPV *    48.7 _                ERR  21.0S
.. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ..,.         ..  . . . .  . . . .  . _,,,,              -------  -------  ------
Discount  X a  12.00X p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs *   63.5  S/C Ratio *    2.3                  NPV *    35.7
--....-...... . . .. . . .... ...... _ .... .. ...------..---.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-..---.-..---.--



Subproject #9
Kurunegala-Naramala-Madape
Traffic Factor, VPD to annual            365          Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4U0 MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT 4 M HEAVY
Roughness (wn/km) w/o project                         (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Years 1 to 3                 5400.0
Years 4 to 5                 6400.0         Annual Growth Rate            5.00%   5.00%   5.00%   5.00%   5.00%
Year 6                       6900.0
Year 7                       7400.0         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD         228     127      71      140       2
Yr.
VOC, without Project  1-3 9500.6  8724.1 10843.4 10888.3 18167.7
Roughness (mn/km) w/ project          4900.0            (Rs. 1000/miles)    4-510223.7  9319.9 11612.4 11602.9 19550.5
Length (miles)                          61.0                                 6  10585.3  9617.8 11996.9 11960.3 20241.9
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)       55.3                                 7  10946.9  9915.7 12381.4 12317.6 20933.3
Opening Year                             1989         VOC, with Project
Est. Life (years)                           7           (Rs. 1000/mites)         9139.1  8426.2 10458.9 10531.0 17476.3
, . ,-.  . - --.. -...----. . ....-------------..-. -.-,, ------ .   .   _   ....  .....--.-. -.  .    .-_ -. -_ -. --.------. -.-. --.. ---_-.. ----
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                              Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD HEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                             CAR, 4WD HEDUIH  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year      PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                               1986                                                           0.0      4.7      -4.7
1987                                                               1987                                                           0.0     27.4    -27.4
1988                                                               1988                                                           0.0     10.4    -10.4
1989       41.7    21.3    14.8   29.3       0.7   107.8           1989        40.1    20.6    14.3    28.4      0.7  104.0       3.8      0.3       3.5
1990       43.7    22.4    15.5    30.8      0.7   113.2           1990        42.1    21.6    15.0    29.8      0.7  109.2       4.0      0.0       4.0
1991       45.9    23.5    16.3    32.3      0.8   118.8           1991        44.2    22.7    15.7    31.3      0.7  114.6       4.2      0.0       4.2
1992       51.9    26.4    18.4    36.2      0.9   133.6           1992        46.4    23.8    16.5    32.8      0.8  120.4      13.3      0.0      13.3
1993       54.5    27.7    19.3    38.0      0.9   140.3           1993        48.7    25.0    17.4    34.5      0.8  126.4      14.0      0.0      14.0
1994       59.2    30.0    20.9    41.1      1.0   152.2           1994        51.1    26.3    18.2    36.2      0.9  132.7      19.5      0.0      19.5
1995       64.3    32.5    22.7    44.4      1.1   165.0           1995        53.7    27.6    19.1    38.0      0.9  139.3      25.6      0.0      25.6
1996                                                               1996
1997                                                               1997
1998                                                               1998
1999                                                               1999
2000                                                               2000
2001                                                               2001
2002                                                               2002
2003                                                               2003
2004                                                               2004
2005                                                               2005
84.5     42.8     41.7
.                                                                                                  +      t-                -
Discount %    10.00%  p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs z   39.0    B/C Ratio =    1.1         NPV =     4.0         I    ERR   13.2%         I
Discount % =  12.00%  p.a.  hPV:VOC Savngs =   33.8    B/C Ratio =    1.0         NPV =     0.1
+**+ .... +4+ ...    * . ... +*..... .. .+ .. . . ...... ... .. .... . ... .... .....+ .... _+++ . .. ....... +.........



S=bOrject #10
Negoo-Giriulls
Traffic Factor, VPD to *nnual              365          Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4WD HEDUIH  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY
Roughness (mn/km) w/o project                           (6/91 to 12/89)             PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Years 1 to 3                  5400.0
Years 4 to 5                  64W.0           Annual Growth Rate            5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Year 6                        6900.0
Year 7                        7400.0          Est. 1992 traffic, VPD         860      150     159      444      24
Yr.
VOC, without Project  1-3 9500.6  8724.1 10843.4 10888.3 18167.7
Roughness (mnm/k) w/ project           4900.0             (Rs. 1000/miles)    4-510223.7  9319.9 11612.4 11602.9 19550.5
Length (miles)                            34.5                                 6  10585.3  9617.8 11996.9 11960.3 20241.9
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)        102.9                                 7  10946.9  9915.7 12381.4 12317.6 20933.3
Opening Year                              1991          VOC, with Project                                                                                      4
Est. Life (years)                            7            (Rs. 1000/miles)          9139.1  8426.2 10458.9 10531.0 17476.3                                     0
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                                 Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD HEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                                CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                 VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year        PICKLP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL             Year       PICKUP   BUS      BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                                  1986                                                            0.0       3.8      -3.8
1987                                                                  1987                                                            0.0       1.3      -1.3
1988                                                                  1988                                                            0.0       7.7      -7.7
1989                                                                  1989                                                            0.0      18.5    -18.5
1990                                                                  1990                                                            0.0      37.7    -37.7
1991       98.0    15.7    20.7    58.0        5.2   197.6            1991       94.3    15.2    19.9    56.1        5.0  190.5       7.1      10.8      -3.7
1992      102.9    16.5    21.7    60.9        5.5   207.4            1992       99.0    15.9    20.9    58.9        5.3  200.0       7.5       0.0       7.5
1993      108.0    17.3    22.8    63.9        5.8   217.8            1993      103.9    16.7    22.0    61.8        5.5  210.0       7.8       0.0       7.8
1994      122.1    19.4    25.6    71.5        6.5   245.1            1994      109.1    17.5    23.1    64.9        5.8  220.5      24.7       0.0      24.7
1995      128.2    20.4    26.9    75.1        6.8   257.4            1995      114.6    18.4    24.2    68.2        6.1  231.5      25.9       0.0     25.9
1996      139.3    22.1    29.2    81.3        7.4   279.3            1996      120.3    19.3    25.5    71.6        6.4  243.1      36.2       0.0     36.2
1997      151.3    23.9    31.6    87.9        8.1   302.8            1997      126.3    20.3    26.7    75.1        6.7  255.2      47.6       0.0      47.6
1998                                                                  1998
1999                                                                  1999
2000                                                                  2000
2001                                                                  2001
2002                                                                  2002
2003                                                                  2003
2004                                                                  2004
2005                                                                  2005
156.7     79.7      77.1
Discount X =  10.00X  p.a.  NPV:VOC Savngs =   59.8    B/C Ratio a    1.1            NPV       7.4          |     ERR   11.9X
Discount X =  12.00X  p.a.  NPV:VOC Savngs =   50.0    B/C Ratio           1.0       NPV =     1.5 1
++          +                     ..............         *                             +    4* . . . .. . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . .*+. . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . + +
+----+*++++---++++-++++.+++.++++++++++++++++++.++++   



................. -++*-+* ..................... +    ---+-# ..........  ............ ** .......            .............................. *++*      ........+++++++ 
Subproject O11
Kelaniya-Biyagama-Mudungoda
Traffic Factor, VPD to awvuj            365         Deftlator       0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHTMIED HEAVY
Roughness C(_ku) w/o project                        (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP    US    WIS    LORRY   LOlRtY
Years 1 to 3                5400.0
Years 4 to 5                6400.0         Annual Growth Rate           5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.002
Year 6                      6900.0
Year 7                      7400.0         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD        630     530     543     282       0
Yr.
VOC, without Project  1-3 9500.6 8724.1 10843.4 10888.3 18167.7
Roughness (on/km) wl project         4900.0           (Rs. 1000/miles)    4-510223.T 9319.9 11612.4 11602.9 19550.5
Length (miles)                         28.5                                6  10585.3  9617.8 11996.9 11960.3 20241.9
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. mittion)      85.2                                7  10946.9  9915.7 12381.4 12317.6 20933.3
Opening Year                           1991         VOC, with Project
Est. Life (years)                         7           (Rs. 1000/miles)         9139.1  8426.2 10458.9 10531.0 17476.3
....--...---..    --..    .-. -.....----------.......-------....----_.-...  -...  ......    ..---..-.-.  ...    ...--..--  .  ....-.-.... .. .. ... .... . .
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                            Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.      '
CAR, 4WD KEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                            CAR, 4WD MEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY             VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP   SUS     WUS   LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL           Year       PICKUP   BUS    BWS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                              1986                                                        0 0      3.1      -3.1
1987                                                              1987                                                        0.0       1.1    -1.1
1988                                                              1988                                                        0.0      6.4      -6.4
1989                                                              1989                                                        0.0      15.3   -15.3
1990                                                             1990                                                         0.0     31.2   -31.2
1991       59.3   45.8   58.3   30.4        0.0   193.9          1991       57.0   44.2   56.3   29.4         0.0  187.0      6.9      8.9      -2.0
1992       62.3   48.1    61.2   31.9       0.0  203.6            1992      59.9   46.5   59.1   30.9    0.0  196.3           7.2      0.0       7.2
1993       65.4   50.5   64.3   33.5        0.0  213.7           1993       62.9   48.8    62.0   32.4        0.0  206.1      7.6      0.0       7.6
1994       73.9   56.7   72.3   37.5        0.0  240.4           1994       66.0   51.2   65.1   34.1         0.0  216.4    23.9       0.0      23.9
1995       77.6   59.5   75.9   39.4        0.0  252.4           1995       69.3   53.8   68.4   35.8         0.0  227.3    25.1       0.0      25.1
1996       84.3   64.5   82.4   42.6        0.0  273.8           1996        72.8   56.5    71.8   37.6       0.0  238.6    35.2       0.0      35.2
1997       91.6   69.8   89.3   46.1        0.0  296.7           1997        76.4   59.3   75.4   39.4        0.0  250.6    46.2       0.0      46.2
1998                                                             1998
1999                                                             1999
2000                                                             2000
2001                                                             2001
2002                                                             2002
2003                                                             2003
2004                                                             2004
2005                                                             2005
152.1    66.0      86.1
Discount X a  10.002 p.a. IPV:VOC Ssvngs a   58.0   */C Ratio a    1.3           PV *    14.6a             ERR   13.92        |
....._............ ........... ... .... ..... ......... .. ........ ............. ... .... .... .... _+...............  . ........................... 
Discount 2 a  12.002  p.a. IIPV:VOC Sawngs a  48.5   B/C Ratio a    1.2         NPV *    8.4
*+   ... .... ++* ............. ..... ......... ..... .... . . . . . . . . ......4.....................



+*****t---+---t-+44+++S-+-++++-+++++*+---4---+i++  _~                                                                                                    *+++++++-+++---++---+++--+++++++++t++++tas
Subproject #12
Ekala-Ganqpaha
Traffic Factor, VPD to  nmual            365         Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/IED HEAVY
Roughness (mm/km) u/o proJect                        (6/91 to 12/89)            PICKUP   BUS     BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Years 1 to 3                5500.0
Years 4 to 5                6500.0          Annual Growth Rate           5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Year 6                      7000.0
Year 7                      7500.0          Est. 1992 traffic, VPD       669      155     146     215        0
Yr.
VOC, without Project  1-3 9572.9  8783.7 10920.3 10959.8 18306.0
Roughness (mn/ku) w/ project          5000.0           (Rs. 1000/miles)    4-510296.0  9379.5 11689.3 11674.4 19688.8
Length (miles)                           9.5                                6  10657.6  9677.4 12073.8 12031.7 20380.2
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)       28.8                                7  11019.2  9975.2 12458.3 12389.0 21071.6
Opening Year                            1991         VOC, with Project
Est. Life (years)                          7           (Rs. 1000/miles)         9211.4  8485.8 10535.8 10602.5 17614.6
Vehicle Operating Cost Uithout Project                             Vehicle Operating Cost With Project                                   I
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                            CAR, 4WD HEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY               VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP   BUS     BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year      PICKUP   BUS     BUS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COSt    BENEFIT
1986                                                               1986                                                         0.0       1.1     -1.1
1987                                                               1987                                                         0.0       0.4     -0.4
1988                                                               1988                                                         0.0       2.1     -2.1
1989                                                               1989                                                         0.0      5.2      -5.2
1990                                                               1990                                                         0.0      10.5    -10.5
1991       21.1     4.5     5.3      7.8     0.0   38.7            1991       20.4     4.3     5.1     7.5      0.0   37.3      1.4      3.0      -1.6
1992       22.2     4.7     5.5      8.2     0.0   40.6            1992       21.4     4.6     5.3     7.9      0.0   39.2      1.5      0.0       1.5
1993       23.3     5.0     5.8      8.6     0.0   42.7            1993       22.4     4.8     5.6     8.3      0.0   41.1      1.5      0.0       1.5
1994       26.3     5.6     6.5      9.6     0.0   48.0            1994       23.6     5.0     5.9     8.7      0.0   43.2      4.8      0.0       4.8
1995       27.6     5.8     6.9    10.1      0.0   50.4            1995       24.7     5.3     6.2     9.2      0.0   45.3      5.1      0.0       5.1
1996       30.1     6.3     7.4    10.9      0.0   54.7            1996       26.0     5.5     6.5     9.6      0.0   47.6      7.1      0.0       7.1
1997       32.6     6.8     8.0    11.8      0.0   59.3            1997       27.3     5.8     6.8    10.1      0.0   50.0      9.3      0.0       9.3
1998                                                               1998
1999                                                               1999
2000                                                               2000
2001                                                               2001
2002                                                               2002
2003                                                               2003
2004                                                              2004
2005                                                              2005
30.7     22.3      8.4
Discount X a  10.00S p.a. NPV:VOC Savngs =   11.7   B/C Ratio -    0.8           NPV      -2.9 9_      1    ERR    6.8X         1
Discount S -  12.00S  p.s.  NPV:VOC Savngs a    9.8   B/C Ratio =    0.7         NPV a    -3.8
+          + .    ..............   .4...... .                                           .... ......... +



Subproject #13
Hinumangoda-Gampaha
Traffic Factor, VPD to anusal           365         Deflator       0.7705    CAR, 4WD  EDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY
Roughness (m/km) w/o project                        (6191 to 12/89)            PICKLUP  BUS     BUS    LORRY   LORRY
Years 1 to 3                5300.0
Years 4 to 5                6200.0         Annual Growth Rate           5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
Year 6                      6700.0
Year 7                      7200.0         Est. 1992 traffic, VPD       2529     530     537     378      19
Yr.
VOC, without Project  1-3 9428.3  8664.5 10766.5 10816.9 18029.4
Roughness (malku) wl project         4800.0           (Rs. 1000/miles)    4-510079.1  9200.7 11458.6 11460.0 19273.9
Length (miles)                          8.7                                6  10440.?  9498.6 11843.1 11817.3 19965.3
Fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. million)      26.6                                7  10802.2  9796.5 12227.6 12174.6 20656.7
Opening Year                           1991         VOC, with Project
Est. Life (years)                         7            (Rs. 1000/mites)        9066.8  8366.7 10382.0 10459.5 17338.0
Vehicle Operating Cost Without Project                             Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECON.
CAR, 4WD NEDUIl  LARGE  LGHT/HED HEAVY                           CAR, 4WD HEDUIM  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY              VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKUP   BUS     BuS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL           Year      PICKUP  BUS      BuS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                              1986                                                        0.0       1.0     -1.0
11987                                                             987                                                         0.0       0.3     -0.3
1988                                                              1988                                                        0.0      2.0      -2.0
1989                                                             1989                                                         0.0      4.8      -4.8
1990                                                             1990                                                         0.0      9.7      -9.7
1991       72.1    13.9   17.5   12.4       1.0   116.9          1M91       69.3   13.4    16.9    12.0       1.0  112.6      4.3      2.8       1.5
1992       75.7 - 14.6   18.4   13.0    1.1   122.7              1992        72.8   14.1    17.7   12.6       1.0  118.2      4.5      0.0       4.5
1993       79.5    15.3   19.3   13.6    1.1   128.9             1993        76.5   14.8   18.6    13.2       1.1  124.1      4.8      0.0       4.8
1994       89.2   17.1    21.5   15.2       1.3   144.3         194         80.3   15.5   19.5    13.8       1.2  130.3      14.0     0.0      14.0
1995      93.7    17.9   22.6   15.9        1.3   151.5          1995        84.3   16.3   20.5    14.5       1.2  136.8     14.7       0.0     14.7
1996      101.9    19.4   24.5   17.2       1.5   164.6           1996       88.5   17.1    21.5    15.3      1.3  143.7     20.9       0.0     20.9
1997      110.7    21.0   26.6   18.7       1.6   178.6          1997       92.9   18.0   22.6    16.0        1.3  150.9     27.8      0.0      27.8
1998                                                             1998
1999                                                             1999
2000                                                             2000
2001                                                              2001
2002                                                             2002
2003                                                             2003
2004                                                             2004
2005                                                             2005
91.0     20.6     70.4
Discount X a  10.00X p.a.  MP:MOC Savngs a   34.8    R/C Ratio a    2.6         NPV *   21.2         |    ERR   22.91         |
Discount X a  12.00X p.m.  NPV:VOC Savngs a  29.1  R/C Ratio a    2.3           NPV *    16.6
.-*.-------------..------...----....    -..----.-..-.-.----....-.-...-...........   .-....-    -..    -..-



A&b-roject 014
Sridgote RehIitation (22 Bridges)
Traffic Factor, VPD diverted (1)          90         Deflator        0.7705    CAR, 4WD HEDUI   LARGE  LGHT/NED HEAVY
Roughness (Wksu) w/o project          7000.0         (6o91 to 12/89)            PCltiCP   Km      KiS    LORRY   LORRY
loughness (=/km) w/ project
Length (miles) (1)                      16.0         0LS Amusl Growth Rate        5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X   5.00X
fin. Cap. cost (1989 Rs. mIlilon)      601.7
Opening Year                            1991         Est. 1992 traffic. WD.       8655    1634    1788    2937      288
Est. Life (years)                         10           3 brldoes (1)
VOC, without Project     10657.6  9677.4 12073.8 12031.7 20380.2
(Rs. 1000 miles) (2)
VOC, with Project            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
(s6. 1000/milea) (2)
Vehicle Operating Cost Wlithout Project                             Vehicle Operating Cost With Project
ECOII.
CAR, 4WD MEDUIN  LARGE  LGHT/MED HEAVY                             CAt, 4WD HEDOIJ  LARGE  LGHTIHED HEAVY              VOC    CAPITAL    NET
Year       PICKtJP  0Us     0US    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL            Year      PICKlUP  fJUS     MS    LORRY   LORRY   TOTAL   SAVINGS   COST    BENEFIT
1986                                                               1986                                                         0.0     46.8   -46.8
1987                                                              19?                                                           0.0     88.8    -o8.8
19U                                                               1988                                                          0.0    268.6   -268.6
1989                                                              1989                                                          0.0     41.5    -41.5
1990                                                              1990                                                          0.0      9.2      -9.2
1991      126.5    21.7    29.6   48.5       8.0  234.3           1991                                                        234.3     10.8    223.5
1992      132.8    22.8    31.1    50.9      8.5  246.0           1992                                                        246.0      0.0    246.0
1993      139.5    23.9    32.6   53.4       8.9  258.3           1993                                                        258.3      0.0    258.3
1994      146.4    25.1    34.3   56.1       9.3  271.2           1994                                                        271.2      0.0    271.2
1995      153.8    26.4    36.0    58.9      9.8  284.8          19                                                          284.8      0.0    284.8
1996      161.5    27.7   37.8    61.9    10.3  299.0             1996                                                        299.0      0.0    299.0
19T       169.5   29.1    39.7    64.9    10.8   314.0            1"7                                                         314.0      0.0    314.0
1998      178.0    30.5    41.7   68.2    11.3  329.7             1998                                                        329.7      0.0    329.7
199       186.9   32.0   43.7    71.6    11.9  346.2              19"9                                                        346.2      0.0    346.2
2000      196.2    33.6    45.9    75.2    12.5  363.5            2000                                                        363.5      0.0    363.5
2001                                                              2001
2002                                                              2002
2003                                                              2003
2004                                                              2004
2005                                                              2005
2947.1    465.7  2481.4
Discount X *  10.00X  p.s.  MPV:VOC Savngs a 1082.4   S/C Ratio *    3.0         IPV *  724.5          |     ERR  26.42        |
.......___....___._....................................__. ._......................._._.... _.. .. ................... . ..... .  -------------
Discount I *  12.00X  p.s. NPV:VoC Sewngs a 903.2   S/C Ratio a    2.6          NIPV *   562.4
(1)  VPD Is man of traffic counts on road s=-projects Nos. 1, 5   7  8 and 9.
(2)  Assumes 3 bridges out of service for 3       annthc each yer over a 10-ywr period, with an everage traffic diversion of 16 miles based on RDA
estimates for each bridge (Road Mointenance Project CX 900-ce PCi, Table 6.10, pg. 73). Roughness an diversion roads aused to be 7000  /1ka.



.                   -      -, .___ _ .~ .                                                                                 .
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
'ROADS TO RE REHABIUTATED:
ASPHALT CONCRETE OVERLAY
---SURFACE DREssiNG
---  SURFACE DRESSING: SECTION ADDED TO PROJECT
BY FORCE ACCOOLNT
F          RTEE                                                              W                                                                    ' ' '/ A ADDED TO PROJECT
WORK PLANNED RUT SUBSEQUFNTlY
DROPPED FROM PROJECT
ROADS:
A GEtADE
a GRADE
Gulf of Monnor                                                                                                               ---,----  SELECTED MINOR ROADS
-  ~~~~~~                *~~~  NATIONlAL CAPITAL 
t   DISRICTCAPD ALS   ' !    -
OTHR TOWNS,,.''
DTi CTRSOUNDARIES
-   NTRNTONA:L`BO0UNDARIES
r.x1\_,'D'                                                                                                           .                                                        -XD-
RTEE.           2                                                                                                                                                             rET
COLOMBOLMEES                                                                                                                 ,                        '~oo
K.1
';                        3f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
n S1 4 Z s '!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS ,s*>s At 



