Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/iA ov-,) Czc-
Report No. 5345-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
March 13, 1985
Power & Transportztion Divisiorn
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
Rs 26.5             =     US$1.00
Rs 1,000            =     US$37.7
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                  British/US System
1 meter (m)                =   3.281 feet
1 kilometer (kn)           =   0.621 mile
1 ton                          2,208 pounds
1 ton-km                       0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km)  =   0.621 passenger-mile
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC        -    Asphaltic Concrete
ACCSL     -    Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
CE(R&D)   -    Chief Engineer (Research and Development)
CGR       -    Ceylon Government Railways
CITP      -    Construction Industry Training Project
CSC       -    Ceylon Shipping Corporation
DBST      -    Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DME       -    Department of Machinery and Equipment
DOH       -    Department of Highways
dwt       -    Dead Weight Tons
EE        -    Executive Engineer
CDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
COSL      -    Government of Sri Lanka
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
Kph       -    Kilometers per hour
MFP       -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOH       -    Ministry of Highways
MOT       -    Ministry of Transport
npv       -    Net Present Value
Pass-Km   -    Passenger Kilometers
PMC       -    Project Management Cell
RDA       -    Road Development Authority
RTB       -    Regional Transport Board
SD&CC     -    State Development & Construction Corporation
SLCTB     -    Sri Lanka CentraL Transport Board
SLPA      -    Sri Lanka Ports Authority
TCC       -    Transport Coordinating Commictee
TCEO      -    Technical Civil Engineering Organization
TEU       -    Twency-Foot Equivalent Unit (container)
TFA       -    Technical and Financial Audit (MOH)
Ton-km    -    Tonne-Kilometers
TOR       -    Terms of Reference
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd       -    vehicLes per day
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
sRi LAMRA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:              US$24.0 million
Terms:               Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate
Proiect
Description:       The project seeks to improve periodic maintenance of
the trunk road network, including bridges, and to
strengthen the institutions concerned with transport
infrastructure by providing for rehabilitation of about
570 kilometers of roads and for repair, replacement, or
widening of about 28 bridges. The project also provides
for equipment to workshops and quality-control
laboratories, training in bitumen emulsion technology
and equipment fleet management, assistance with
project execution, and technical assistance to the
Transport Coordinating Committee, within the Ministry
of Transport. The main project benefit would be the
direct savings to highway users arising from reduced
vehicle operating costs, fewer bridge closings, improved
routine and periodic maintenance, and improved transport
planning and management. Principal risks, relating to
institutional capability and quality of workmanship,
would be minimized by providing adequate levels of
technical assistance and training.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiceits only in the performance of
their offil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: /a         Item                       Local   Foreign   Total
----US$ Million---
Road Repairs                     11.0      9.8      20.8
Bridge Repairs                    3.1      3.2       6.3
Supervision                       0.9      0.3       1.2
Equipment                         0.6      0.9       1.5
Technical Assistance and
Training                         0.2      0.7       0.9
Base Cost                      15.8     14.9      30.7
Physical Contingencies            1.5      1.4       2.9
Price Contingencies               6.2      3.8      10.0
Total Cost                     23.5     20.1     43.6
rnz               inmo  a
Financing Plan:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
----US$ Nillion--
Government                       19.6       -       19.6
IBRD                              3.9     20.1     24.0
Total                           23.5     20.1     43.6
Estimated
Disbursements:     IBRD YY      FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
_ __ --_--nS$ Nillion------- 
Annual       1.7   3.6   4.8   4.8   4.1   2.8   1.7   0.5
Cumulative   1.7   5.3  10.1  14.9  19.0  21.8  23.5  24.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         82 percent
Map:                 IBRD 18532
La Includes taxes and duties of US$6.1 million.



-iii-
SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..*....................*....... *..o                             1
A.    General Background and Economic  Setting  ....                  .........       1
B.    The Transport System  ....  .... ................ .. .....                      1
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination                    .................        4
II.    THE HIGHWAY SECTOR  ...................                                                4
A.    The Highway Network  .................................                          4
B.    The Administration of Highways  ......................                          5
C.    Highway Planning,  Finance and Investment  ............                         7
D.    Technical Aspects of Highway Construction
and Maintenance  ...................................                         8
E.    Previous Projects  .............. . . . .   ................... ...            10
III.    THE PROJECT                 .............................................             11
A5.    Background  ...... o................................................          11
B.    Objectives  ...... o..o            ................................            12
C.    Project Description  ................................                          12
D.    Cost Estimates ..... 0.................................................        16
E. Financing .. ........ . .    18
F.    Execution of the Project  .........o                    .................      18
G.    Procurement and Contracting   o   ..........o  ...........                     19
H.    Disbursements  ... . .................................... ..                   21
I.    Environmental Considerations  .....                 ...................        22
J.    Reporting              ..........................................              22
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...... ..............                  .................         23
A.    Introduction  .......................................................          23
B.    Benefits  and Beneficiaries  ...........            ..      .............      23
C.    Traffic Volumes  and Growth ............             ..      ............      24
D.  Cost                .........................*.. o....   24
E.    Conclusions  ........... .0...........................................         25
F.    Risks              ...................... ....................                 26
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................                 ...       26
This report was prepared by C. Jeremy Lane, Highway Engineer and
Inai Bradfield, Transpor. Economist. The bulk of the word processing and
COSTAB operation was done by Mrs. Margaret Carter, and Ms. Angela Ning
assisted with the calculations.



-iv-
ANNEXES                                                          Page No.
Annex 1 - Documents in the Project File .......................    28
Annex 2 - Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Specialists .......  ................................    29
Annex 3 - Terms of Reference for the Technical and Financial
Audit  . ....... .................................................  34
Annex 4 - Economic Evaluation - Assumptions and Methodology  ...    38
Annex 5 - Terms of Reference for Transport
Coordinating Committee .....................    49
TABLES
Table  1.1 - Passenger Traffic .............................     53
Table  1.2 - Vehicle Registrations .....    ....................  54
Table  1.3 - Ports Throughput ..............................     55
Table  2.1 - Classification of Roads Maintained by DOH
and by Local Authorities ....    .................    56
Table 2.2 - Highway Expenditures ...........................    57
Table  2.3 - Department of Highways Proposed Five-Year
Expenditures  .................................  58
Table 3.1 - Sections of Road Proposed for Asphalt Overlay ..   59
Table 3.2 - Sections of Road Proposed for Surface Treatment      60
Table  3.3 - Bridge Rehabilitation Program - List A .... .....    61
Table 3.4 - Bridge Rehabilitation Program - List B    .........    62
Table  3.5 - Equipment for Materials Testing, and for TCC
and Highway Planning Section, DOH ......ll.....    63
Table 3.6 - Schedule of Workshop Equipment ....     .............    64
Table  3.7 - Detailed Cost Table ..........     ..................    65
Table  3.8 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements     ............    66
Table 4.1 - Economic Evaluation of DBST ....................    67
Table 4.2 - Economic Evaluation of Asphalt Concrete Overlay      68
Table 4.3 - Economic Evaluation of Colombo-Calle Road
(including Kalutara Bridge) ....   ..............    69
Table  4.4 - Sensitivity Analysis         ..........................    70
CHARTS
Figure 1 - Organization of the Department of Highways .......   71
Figure 2 - Project Implementation Schedule ..................    72
MAP
No. IBRD 18532
This report is based on information supplied by GOSL and on the findings
of various preparation missions. The project was originally appraised
in May 1983 by Mr. H. Sydney Thriscutt, Senior Highway Engineer, and
Mr. Safari O'Humay, Financial Analyst.



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General Background and Economic Setting
1.01      The island of Sri Lanka (65,000 km2) is generally flat in the
coastal areas and mountainous towards the centraL hills (Map 18532). The
total population in 1984 was about 15.8 million, of which a high proportion
live in the southwest quadrant cf the island and in the Jaffna peninsula at
the northern tip. Between 1971 and 1981, the population grew at the moderate
rate of 1.7% annually.
1.02      With the introduction of an economic liberalization program in
1978, the Government initiated a series of reforms designed to break the
economic stagnation of 1970-77. Growth accelerated almost immediately as
reflected in 6.8Z real annual growth during 1977-80, which then declined to
5.3% in 1980-83. During 1978-1982, the share of the transport sector in the
GDP has increased to 9%.
1.03      The bulk of inland freight transport is made up of agricultural
products such as rice and wheat, and tea, rubber and coconut. Manufacturing
activity is centered in Colombo, which is also the principal port. As half
of all freight traffic moves in'or out of the Colombo area, there is severe
congestion which is further intensified by half a million daily co iuters
from the surrounding areas.
1.04      Road transport accounts for 90% of total transport, while the
importance of the railways in terms of sector output has declined from about
8% during 1976-80 to 4% of the total in 1981. The rapid growth in road
traffic and axle loads, combined with the general neglect of highway
maintenance over the past decade, has resulted in rapid deterioration of the
road network.
B. The Transport System
1.05      The transport system of Sri Lanka consists of about 25,000 km of
roads (about 9,000 km surfaced) maintained by the Department of Highways
(DOH), and some 43,000 km maintained by local authorities, about 1,450 km of
railways, mostly broad gauge single track; one main and two minor ports, and
seven airports, only one of which handles international traffic. Public
inland transport services are provided by Ceylon Government Railways (CGR),
the Bus Transport Boards consisting of the Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board (SLCTB) and nine Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), which are public
corporations operating road passenger services islandwide, and an increasing



-2-
number of private road passenger and goods operators. Several government
(GOSL) agencies and cooperative societies operate a significant number of
trucks on their own account. Air transport and coastal shipping play only a
minor role, and a short pipeline carries crude oil from Colombo Port to the
nearby refinery. Principal traffic statistics are shown in Table 1.1.
(a) Highways and Road Transport
1.06      The highway subsector is discussed in Chapter II.
1.07      Road transport plays the dominant role in the economy of Sri Lanka
accounting for about 90% of total ton-km and 82% of total pass-km. Until
1979, passenger transport was the monopoly of SLCTB and the RTBs. Since
1979, however, private passenger transport has been allowed and is taking an
increasing share of the market. Their operation is entirely unregulated
apart from vehicle inspection. Road freight transport is also unregulated,
with no set tariffs, hence prices respond to supply and demand. About 70% of
the trucking fleet is privately owned with small operators predominating;
the remainder is owned by government departments, public corporations and
cooperatives.
1.08      More liberal import policies since 1977 have transformed the road
vehicle fleet, which was old and decrepit. New vehicle registrations
increased sharply, and even allowing for the number of old vehicles which
were scrapped, the number of vehicles in the active fleet had almost doubled
by 1982. Vehicle registrations in 1977-82 are shown in Table 1.2.
1.09      In 1982, SLCTB and the nine RTBs owned 18,000 buses 1/ on register
but only about 8,000 were in operating condition. Operating problems and
ineffective management led to increasing losses requiring a subsidy from
GOSL. In 1981, however, the managements of both SLCTB and the RTBs were
overhauled and there was a rationalization of services. Financial
performance improved to the extent that no government support has been
required since 1981. Since 1978, there has been a ninefold increase in the
privately operated bus fleet. Although fares were initially higher than
those of RTB's, the public was prepared to pay extra for a generally higher
standard of comfort and reliability; however, increasing competition has
brought fares in line with those of the RTBs.
(b) Railways
1.10      Railways are operated by CCR as a government department under the
Ministry of Transoort (MOT) over a total track length of 1,450 km. A major
extension is under construction to serve the Mahaweli Development Project.
The existing track system includes over 1,000 steel bridges, mostly built
1/ Includes the number of scrapped buses. SLCTB does not maintain a record
on the number of buses scrapped.



-3-
about 50 to 60 years ago. There are about 300 1 :omotives in service, and
4,000 wagons, mostly very old. The growth of freight ton-km has been uneven:
the traffic increased by 25 between 1977 and 1979, but declined by 26%
between 1979 and 1980. In 1981, the volume of traffic recovered to the 1977
level at 223 million ton-km. Between 1977 and 1981, the volume of rail
passengers fluctuated from 2.8 billion pass-km to 4.1 billion pass-km. In
1981, rail pass-km accounted for 3 billion, or 13% of total passenger
traffic. The financial situation of CGR is unhealthy with operating
expenditure growing much faster than revenue. In 1982, the GOSL subsidies
to CGR reached Rs 200 million.
1.11      The Government is fully aware of its inability to continue
financing CGR's growing operating losses. For this reason, it has recently
established a Transport Coordinating Committee (TCC) and requested the Bank's
assistance in analyzing major transport issues, including means to improve
the financial position and the performance of the railways. Under the first
Road Maintenance Project, Credit 900-CE, funds are being provided for this
work which will be continued under the proposed project (para 1.15).
(c) Ports and Shipping
1.12      The Sri Lanka Port Authority (SLPA), established in 1979, is
responsible for all port management and operations. Since that time, SLPA
has been able to streamline port operations and efficiently handle increasing
traffic at Colombo. Container traffic through CoLombo has increased from
7,500 TEU 1/ in 1978 to over 100,000 TEU in 1982. The total volume of
imports and exports handled by SLPA is shown in Table 1.3. Financial records
indicate that SLPA has earned impressive surpluses which after taxes amounted
to Rs 40 million in 1979, growing to Rs 232 million in 1981.
1.13      Sri Lanka's own merchant fleet is run by the GOSL-owned Ceylon
Shipping Corporation (CSC) and comprises eight general cargo vessels with
a total capacity of 86,800 dwt. From time to time, CSC charters cellular
container ships to serve the UK/Continent, the Middle East and Hong Kong/
Japan routes. In addition, It owns a 30,000 dwt tanker, which is used to
import about a quarter of the country's crude oil requirement. In 1981, CSC
carried about 12.7Z of total marine freight ard has been increasingly
profitable over the past five years, also saving foreign exchange.
(d) Air Transport
1.14      Nearly all passenger traffic to and from Sri Lanka is by air,
including significant tourist traffic. The national carrier, Air Lanka, was
created in 1979 to replace the unprofitable and now defunct Air Ceylon, and
offers internat -nal services in the region and to Europe. Since 1977,
1/  Twenty-foot Equ.-valent Unit, the Length of t--e standard container unit in
internat:onal trade.



-4-
passenger traffic has grown at 35% a year, now amounting to over a million
passenger movements per year. There is also a small but increasing amount
of air freight passing through Kattunayake Airport, Colombo. Of the 16,200
aircraft movements at Katunayake in 1981, Air Lanka accounted for 2,800 (or
17%), using five aircrafts. Seat occupancy at 76% is high, largely due to
Air Lanka's aggressive policy of fare reductions for residents.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.15      At present, highway planning and construction are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Highways (MOH), railways and public road
transport are in the care of MinisLry of Transport (MOT), and private bus
operation is controlled by the Ministry of Private Buses. The Ministry of
Trade and Shipping is responsible for shipping and port operations, while air
transport is under the control of the Ministry of Defense. There is thus
little coordination among modes. The highly fragmented decision-making
structure makes coordinated transport sector planning and formulation and
implementation of sector policy reforms almost impossible. In order to
address this institutional weakness and other sectoral issues identified
during the Bank's transport sector review in 1984, the Bank proposed, and the
Government agreed, to establish a Transport Coordinating Committee (TCC) to
examine and analyze these issues through a study, based on which appropriate
recommendations for improvement measures will be made. TCC set up in 1984 is
composed of high-level representatives of all transport agencies under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and is supported
by a technical secretariat, which was also established in 1984 at the Bank's
suggestion. Under the project, technical assistance is being provided to
strengthen the work of TCC and its secretariat in analyzing major
institutional issues relating to: (a) transport planning and coordination;
(b) financial viability and operational improvement of the railways;
(c) resource mobilization through user charges to meet future maintenance
funding requirements; and (d) the role of public bus operations. Outline
terms of reference and the committee's overall work program have been
established (Annex 5). Funds required after late 1985 for the continuation
of the committee's work will be provided under the project. During
negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on the time
schedule for the TCC's detailed work program, and consultation procedures
with the Bank for the implementation of TCC's policy recommendations.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
2.01      Sri Lanka has a comparatively well-developed and dense highway
system evolved during the last century to supply the inland plantations and
convey their products to the ports (Table 2.1 and Map). Lack of correct
maintenance and the recent growth of traffic have placed a severe burden upon
the highway system, so that many lengths of pavement require strengthening or



-5-
reconstruction to avoid failure. In addition, a large number of bridges are
structurally unsound, as well as too narrow for present day traffic; highway
geometrics are below standard and roadside development has encroached on the
right of way, making improvement or widening difficult and expensive.
Traffic counts undertaken in 1984 showed average annual increases of 3-10Z on
the main arteries.
B. The Administration of Highways
2.02      Following a long period when GOSL activities in both roads and
buildings were carried out by a Public Works Department, the two funcrions
were divided in 1969 between DOH and a Buildings Department. During 1970-78,
DOH was controlled by the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways. GOSL
policy at that time did not favor the private sector, and thus practically
all work was by force account through three governmental agencies: namely,
the State Development and Construction Corporation (SD&CC), the Territorial
Civil Engineering Organization (TCEO) and the Department of Machinery and
Equipment (DME). SD&CC undertook bridge construction for DOH and still does
on a contract basis; TCEO maintained the road system through a network of
regional Directors of Works, who also carried out irrigation works, and DME
procured, allocated, operated and maintained all plant, vehicles and
equipment for GOSL highways, bridges, irrigation and power projects, hading
central and regional workshops for the purpose.
2.03      Following a change of government in 1978, irrigation works were
placed under a separate ministry, leaving DOH under the Ministry of Power and
Highways. Finally, in May 1980, there was a further separation and DOH is
now controlled by the Ministry of Highways. Radical alterations took place
in SD&CC, TCEO and DME. SD&CC became an independent contractor, while DME
and TCEO were divided between Highways and Irrigation. With the emphasis
being given at that time to early completion of the Mahaweli Project, a major
irrigation and hydroelectric scheme under construction, irrigation received
the lionts share of workshops and plant, and DOH was left with no central
workshop, an incomplete network of regional workshops and inadequate stocks
of spares. Under the first Road Maintenance Project, 1/ central workshops at
Angulana have been successfully upgraded and nine regional workshops have
been set up. The organization and key staff are satisfactory, and with the
equipment and tools proposed under this project, the workshops would be
adequately equipped to undertake road maintenance.
2.04      The present organization of DOH is illustrated in Figure 1.  The
Director of Highways is che senior technical officer and has three zonal
Deputy Directors to control the principal field operations of highway and
bridge construction and maintenance, which are carried out thrcugh 22 Chief
Engineers, assisted '7 Executive Engineers (EEs) and Technical Officers
l/ Credit 900-CE, referred to hereafter as "the first roads project", see
para 2.17.



-6-
(TOs). Technical support is provided for planning, programming and progress
control, engineering seivices, bridges, and mechanical engineering. Staff
training is the concern of the Chief Engineer (Research and Development).
2.05      In 1981, COSL enacted the Road Development Authority Act (No. 73)
setting up a Road Development Authority (RDA) under the control of the
Minister of Highways. It functions under a ten-member committee, as a
parastatal agency, and is advised by a Road Development Advisory Council. By
designating a Road Development Area, the Minister can empower RDA to carry
out, within that area, many of the functions otherwise done by DOH, but with
the difference that the RDA can charge fees for its services and can fix the
wages, salaries and conditions of service of its staff, permitting such
additional advantages as field allowances and free transport. In this way
RDA can offer incentives to able engineers not available within civil service
regulations. A strict client/contractor relationship is observed when RDA is
acting as a contractor to MOH, and full commercial hire rates are charged for
any MOH plant used by RDA. RDA operates its own accounts, which are subject
to government audit, and is able to borrow commercially with the permission
of the Minister. In order to help sec up RDA's administrative and accounting
framework, and to establish the procedures and practices that would enable it
to adopt a contracting mentality, the Authority has engaged a Singaporean
contractor as its management adviser. The contractor is paid a fee for its
ongoing advisory duties for MOH, but it is understood that in the future the
contractor will act in joint venture with RDA, bidding for work offered by
other parties.
2.06      DOH has experienced difficulty in recent years in maintaining its
effectiveness. The problems of retaining key staff, the lack of an
entrepreneurial approach to executing work and the difficulties of operating
within a highly structured bureaucracy, have aLl contributed and led in part
to the decision to create the RDA. More recently, a return to the "overseer"
system of routine maintenance is being investigated. Under this system, the
current DOH technical officers would remain as MCH 1/ employees on a nominal
salary, but would become in effect small contractors paid on piece-work rates
for routine maintenance, and charged for any DOH resources: equipment,
materials, etc., suppLied. A first (and major) step was taken in this new
direction on December 30, 1984 with the termination of 23,000 salaried
laborers. The good and skilled were immediacely re-employed by the
overseers; many are expected to get work with contractors under the project,
while cthers will receive a pension.  RDA wouid become the executing agency
for this work, b-:.t the details oi how the existing structure and personnel of
DOH would be transformed into RDA are still being worked out. There are
arguabiy too many DOH engineers either doing adminis.racive work or working
i/  DOH is a part of MOH, but its functions may soon be taken cver by MOH, or
be devolved upon RDA or other agencies. Herea-ter in this report "MOH"
is taken to in^lude DOH if a-pi.icable.  "DOH" is used where a distinction
is required in referring to the recent past or immediate f.iture.



-7-
for the local community. If there is a major transfer of staff to RDA, those
engineers retained will receive better working conditions and pay, but there
wouLd probably be 20Z to 30% not re-empLoyed. It is clear, however, that all
"head office" functions, including responsibility for running the project,
would be absorbed into MOH if DOH were to be dissolved. An expatriate
consulting firm is assisting DOH with establishing the contractual framework
and training potential overseers for the trial introduction of this scheme.
C. Highway Planning, Finance and Investment
2.07      Although funding for maintenance has been inadequate in the past,
GOSL has at last made a strong commitment to rehabilitation of the existing
network, before embarking on any new investments. At the present time there
are no major capital investments under construction or planned, and what does
appear in the so-called "capital works" budget are urgent works on the
existing network: bridge replacements, access to new factories, essential
widening or emergency bridge repairs. Highway sector expenditures since 1974
are shown in Table 2.2. In the longer term, difficult decisions will be
required about the location of major new outlets from Colombo, because
widening of the existing routes is difficult due to intense roadside
development. The proposed project intends to make a significant contribution
to general transport planning, including the identification of needed
feasibility studies for high priority roads by providing technical assistance
to the Transport Coordinating Committee and its secretariat, and by
strengthening DOH's planning capability (para 1.15).
2.08      As a part of the first roads project (para 2.17), planning and
appraisal of works have been improved, although progress was slow due to the
absence of any road inventory. Road inventory data have now been assembled
and a system of regular traffic counting set up, providing a basis for work
planning for the proposed project.  This work was carried out under the Chief
Engineer (Traffic and Planning) and identified sections requiring major
rehabilitation or maintenance in the next five years. The inventory data
will be collated and presented in a standardized updatable format during the
implementation of the project. An axle load survey is also planned, for
which the project will provide equipment.
2.09      Since January 1, 1984 the routine road maintenance budget has been
administered by the District Ministers, using the DOH organization as an
executing agency. Depending on the energy and motivation of the District
Ministers in responding to local priorities, this could bring an improvement
in routine maintenance; it may make centralized planning of periodic
maintenance more difficult. Recently, however, GOSL has announced the
funding of the Medium-Term Rehabilitation Program (periodic msaintenance) and
concomitant increases in the routine maintenance budget (Table 2.3). Part
of the extra funds will be contributed by external donors (including IBRD
under the proposed proiect) and the rest from general revenue. As the
Mahaweli project winds down, an increased allocation for road maintenance
is within the Government's fiscal capability.



-8-
2.10      Due largely to increased vehicle imports since 1978, road user
revenues have been comfortably above the annual expenditures on construction
and maintenance. In 1981, the last year for which figures are available,
Government expenditure on roads amounted ta Rs 344 million, while revenue
from road users was Rs 702 million, not counting Business Turnover Tax on
motor fuel sales and non-corporate income tax from road transport companies.
If routine and periodic road maintenance were adequately funded, the annual
required expenditure on roads would be about Rs 857 million in 1986 and extra
revenue from road users would be caLled for. At present, heavy vehicles
which cause most pavement damage, do not contribute enough and an increase
for such vehicles would be appropriate. Road user charges and axle load
surveys are among topics being addressed by TCC in the first major study to
be commissioned in mid-1985 (para 1.15). The findings of the study should be
available in 1986. In the meantime, the Cabinet has published a technical
memorandum containing new minimum maintenance fund requirements needed during
1985-89 (Table 2.3). During negotiations, it was agreed that GOSL would
release maintenance funds at least up to these levels for the five-year
period, 1985-1989, and to ensure that road user revenue remains in step with
increased expenditure on roads.
D. Technical Aspects of Highway Construction and Maintenance
Quality Control
2.11      The concept of routine quality control of road works is fairly new
in Sri Lanka. Equipment for regional materials testing laboratories was
provided under the first roads project, and these laboratories are now
staffed. The Droject will provide additional equipment for these
laboratories, and some specialist equipment for the central Ratmalana
Laboratory and for field sampling.
Training
2.12      Under the first roads project, new methods, materials and equipment
are being introduced, including bitumen emulsion. The impact on road
maintenance standards has been less than desired for two reasons: (a) much
equipment arrived late due to DOH's lengthy procurement procedures; and
(b) there was a reluctance to change old ways and act on the advice cf
expatriate consultants. A final tranche of maintenance equipment is
scheduled to arrive by mid-1985. The mechanical engineer, who assisted DOH
with the equipment elements of the first roads project, is being retained for
two further years. He will oversee the introduction of the new equipment,
improve the management of hire operations, and train mechanics and operators.
A 6,000 tons per year bitumen emulsion production plant is being erected, and
a training program, using emulsion imDorted directly, is in progress, and the
proposed project will provide continuing assistance for running the plant and
using its production effectively.



-9-
2.13      Under the first roads project, a small training center was
established at Angulana and successful courses were prepared and run, mainly
for mechanical trades, and some local instructors gained experience in
delivering courses; over 200 people passed through the center. The Chief
Engineer (Research and Development) (CE(R&D)) is now operating a
comprehensive trainir.;, program for all skilled non-professional staff in a
series of courses of between two weeks and three months in length. The
ongoing IDA-funded Construction Industry Training Project (CITP) (Credit
1130-CE) (para 2.17) is also providing vocational training for DOH mechanics
and other workshop trades, and equipment operators, and junior supervisory
staff, partly with funds from Credit 900-CE. A follow-on CITP project has
been prepared for appraisal in FY86, which will continue to offer training to
employees in the road maintenance field whether DOH, RDA, or private
contractors' and overseerst personnel. This training will run parallel with
the special training referred to in para 2.06, and is being coordinated by
CE(R&D).
2.14      While in the long term, much vocational training will become
available outside MOH, there will always be a need for MOH-specific rather
than trade-specific matters, and for certain specialist subjects. The
proposed project therefore contains no major training component because the
road maintenance community may shortly be going through a period of
fundamental change, and because adequate training is being provided in the
interim through other channels. The project will provide training in
emulsion technology, and training overseas for specialists. On-the-job
training will also be given to MOH counterpart staff working with the
construction management and highway engineering advisers (para 3.10). With a
view to addressing the long-term training needs of MOH (and by that stage
some overseer's and contractor's personnel as well), the proposed project
will include a full training-needs survey and an outline plan for a road
maintenance training center, to be carried out by the training planner.
During negotiations, it was agreed that GOSL will consult with the Bank on
the findings of the survey and plan, and on their implementation.
The Construction Industry
2.15      For a number of years up to 1978, the industry was virtually
moribund, but rapid expansion took place after 1978 to cater for the
increasing tempo of economic activity. There are no large general
contracting firms in Sri Lanka at present, but about six firms each have
annual capacities of US$5 million or more, and perhaps a further 20 can each
undertake work valued at up to about US$2 million annually. Private
contractors tend to concentrate on building, water supply and small-scale
sewage projects, where the need for equipment is small, but they are now
taking on fairly large irrigation contracts using some earthmoving equipment.
Some firms are executing bridge repairs and small road works for DOH under
the first roads project, but there are at present few local firms with recent
experience in, or equipment for bituminous road works. Under the CITP, the
Association of Construction Contraccors of Sri Lanka (ACCSL) has recently
been formed to strengthen and channel the available capacity and to present a
united professional front. Conditions of contract were heavily in the
Government's favor and the smaller contractors were virtually labor



-10-
suppliers. New specifications and conditions of contract have recently been
agreed with assistance from the CITP, consultants financed under the first
roads project, and ACCSL.
2.16      The Hahaweli power and irrigation project is using expatriate
contractors for the main works, but local firms working as subcontractors
are gaining useful experience, and local workers employed by the principal
contractors will eventually return to domestic firms as experienced
employees.  Many CITP graduates are finding employment in this vast scheme.
The "brain drain" to the Middle East is sLowing down and the capacity of
local contractors is improving steadily. With encouragement, the domestic
industry can develop an effective capacity for major road works in the near
future. At the present time it is considered that the participation of
foreign contracting firms will be necessary to execute the bulk of the
project road works and the two Kalutara bridges. International advertising
has already invited firms to prequalify, including joint ventures between
foreign and Sri Lankan companies. The response to the prequalification
invitation has been very favorable.
E. Previous Projects
2.17      There have been two previous projects in the sector and one project
related to the sector, all still under disbursement, as follows:
(a)  A First Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE, US$16.5 million,
May 1979). This project is still under implementation and
scheduled for completion in June 1985. Stemming from the 1966 IDA
transport review, a first highway project was approved in 1968,
but was later cancelled due to a change in government policies
favoring new construction over rehabilitation. The project was
re-appraised in October 1978 as a road maintenance project and
became effective in December 1979. Its main objectives were:
(i)  to recoup the backlog of periodic maintenance on about 350 km
of roads and 30 bridges respectively, and to introduce
enhanced routine and periodic maintenance practices; and
(ii)  to lay the foundation for improved maintenance planning based
on a systematic data collection and analysis of traffic and
costs.
These objectives were supported by the provision of equipment,
spares, workshop equipment and technical assistance. There has
been satisfactory progress in all components except for the road
rehabilitation, which was originally expected to be executed by
contract. No bids were received, however, and much of the works
had to be done by force account. Initially, work was slow and its
quality less than satisfactory. Administration supervision was
poor and there was resistance to the introduction of improved
methods. Since early 1984, however, there have been encouraging



-11-
developments. Bitumen emulsion has been introduced and some road
work is being executed by contract. The current project is
scheduled for completion before effectiveness of the proposed
project. As a result of the project, road maintenance is now being
executed with better equipped, better trained operatives. As a
result of a new contracting climate and technical assistance to DOH
design branch, DOH is now in a position to administer the proposed
project with work being executed by contract.
(b) The Road Passenger Transport Project (Credit 994-CE, March 1980,
US$53.0 millions). This project also grew out of the 1976 sector
review and was designed to:
Ci) improve mechanical and operating efficiency of SLCTB's
fleet; and
(ii) improve the financial status of SLCTB.
The project, which is ongoing, has included supply of materials and
parts for the local assembly of 1,500 buses, construction of new
bus depots, technical assistance in mechanical and traffic
engineering, and for planning organization and management. The
project is scheduled for completion by September 30, 1985.
Implementation of the project had been delayed due to a lack of
commitment on the part of SLCTB'S senior staff to undertake agreed
institutional reforms. and to lengthy procurement procedures.
However, SLCTB's management has shown a determination to achieve
the institutional objectives of the project. The creation of the
TCC, which will address the problem of rationalizing public/private
bus operations, is another positive step.
(c) Construction Industry Training Project (Credit 1130-CE, April 1981,
US$13.5 million). The project includes training of tradesmen,
equipment operators and supervisors for the building and
construction industry. Technical assistance is also being provided
for improving specifications and contract documentation for the
industry generally. The project is scheduled for completion at the
end of 1985. The project has been a success and has benefited
almost every company and construction-related government agency in
the country.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      As in the first roads project, the overall objective of the
proposed project is to reduce the costs and delays associated with internal
transport by selective betterment of the highway system. However, targets



-12-
are now more limited and specific and will use an alternative means of
implementation. GOSL now realizes its problems in the highway subsector and
is willing to experiment with possible solutions. Force account will be used
only for some minor bridge repairs; the bulk of the work will be by contract.
The rationale for the Bank's involvement in this project is that
institutional strengthening will go hand in hand with the project's physical
provisions, and will support the Government's new initiatives in the
transport sector. Not only will the maintenance backlog be reduced, but
through the TCC, the training program, and technical assistance for highway
planning, road maintenance and improvement will be better planned and funded
in future. Through its continuing dialogue with Government, the Bank has
assisted in the establishment of the TCC, and through its work program an
improved transport policy framework wilL be formulated. The assistance to
MOH for project execution and the strengthening of its equipment fleet and
its workshops, begun under the first roads project and continued under the
proposed project will give Sri Lanka the capacity to execute maintenance more
effectively.
B. Objectives
3.02      Specifically, the objectives of the project are:
(a) to reduce the backlog of periodic maintenance on the priority road
network and on bridges; and
Cb) to strengthen the institutions concerned with transport
infrastructure in the following key areas:
i)  transport coordination and planning at an inter-ministerial
level; and
(ii) road maintenance olanning, supervision and execution of the
maintenance program.
C. Project Description
3.03      In support of these objectives, the components of the proposed
project are:
(a) a program of periodic maintenance consisting of bituminous overlay
on about 300 km of road and surface resealing on about 270 km of
road;
(b) strengthening or rehabilitation of about 28 bridges;
tc) provision of workshop equipment and tools and laboratory equipment
to DOH;
(d) equipment and training for MOH's highway planning and highway
maintenance departments; and



-13-
(e) technical assistance to the Transport Coordinating Committee and
its technical secretariat.
Accordingly, the project would finance:
(a) execution of road and bridge works by contract and supervision;
(b) procurement of equipment, vehicles and tools for workshops, drawing
office, office and laboratory;
(c) execution of minor bridge works by force account, including
purchase of materials, fuel, and some local wages;
(d) technical assistance in training, construction management,
supervision, transport planning, road design and project
implementation generally; and
Ce) training abroad for selected transport planning staff.
(a) "he Overlay and Resealing Program
3.04      About 300 km of roads on ten trunk routes require preliminary
repairs, a regulating layer and provision of an asphalt concrete
strengthening overlay. Sections have been chosen on the basis of their
visual condition, traffic volume and pavement roughness. The resulting list
of road sections and the traffic and roughness data are shown in Table 3.1;
their locations are shown on Map IBRD 18532. The cost of road rehabilitation
work is estimated at US$29.8 million equivalent (see Table 3.7 for detailed
costs). The sections will be re-inspected before work commences in order to
account for any new areas of deterioration. The 270 km of roads which are
structurally sound, but where resealing is now needed to renew the wearing
course and to prevent breakup of the base, are shown in Table 3.2, and these
will form the basis of the resealing program. Before either overlaying or
resealing is commenced, potholes and cracked areas will be repaired and
pavement and roadside drainage put into good order. Benkelman Beam surveys
will be done ahead of overlaying and resealing to confirm the visual
inspection and to calculate the thickness required. During negotiations, the
road and bridge rehabilitation program has been agreed with GOSL. GOSL
further agreed that it would discuss any changes with the Bank prior to their
des ign.
(b) Bridge Rehabilitation
3.05      About 28 bridges (see Tables 3.3 and 3.4 and Map) are in urgent
need of repair, rehabilitation or replacement. The total cost of this
program is estimated at US$9.1 million equivalent. Apart from two major
bridges on the Colombo-Galle Road at Kalutara (estimated cost US$4.50
million), the work to be done is within the scope of domestic contractors,
although they may require to hire equipment from DOH. The two bridges at



-14-
Kalutara of the through-truss type, are serious obstacles to traffic and
cannot accommodate container trucks on this major route (ADT 4,900). The
trusses will be dismantled and a new 56 ft wide deck will be built on the
existing piers which will be widened. Design and contract documents were
prepared by DOH and bids have been invited from over 50 prequalified
contractors. Design of the other bridges is in hand with the DOH Bridge
Section.
(c) Equipment for Civil Works
3.06      Equipment for one overlaying unit and two resealing units has been
or is being procured under Credit 900-CE. This, and other equipment procured
under the project, could be made available for hire to local contractors, if
contractors do not have their own. Similarly, bridge construction equipment,
sheet piling and formwork procured under Credit 900-CE would also be
availablz. In the e-ent of hire of departmental equipment to RDA or
contractors, DOH has agreed to charge full commercial hire rates. The Bank
has found the existing schedule of rates used by DOE Mechanical Branch to be
satisfactory. During negotiations, Government has agreed to review these
rates annually with the Bank.
(d) Procurement of Workshop, Laboratory and Other Equipment
3.07      Laboratory testing and quality control equipment for the regional
laboratories is to be procured at a cost of abuut US$300,300, to oe used for
works supervision by DOH (Table 3.5). During the first roads project,
premises at Angulana were equipped and set up as a central workshop, training
center and reception depot for new equipment. However, DOH's regional
workshops are still poorly equipped, and the equipment shown in Table 3.6 is
needed to bring them up to the required capability (estimated cost US$1.0
million).
Ce) Assistance for Highway Planning and Transport Coordination
3.08      MOH has requested assistance in developing its capabilities for
highway development and maintenance planning. During the first project, a
road inventory -was completed for all DOH roads and a regular traffic census
instituted; these data were used to compile the overlay and resealing program
for this project. The Traffic and Planning Section of DOH is adequately
staffed at senior level and will process and analyze the road inventory and
other data as a starting point for a planned preventive periodic maintenance
program. Traffic and pavement monitoring, including deflection and roughness
measurement, will continue throughout the project, and the section will
undertake an axle load survey (para 2.10) and various besic cost studies in
close collaboration with the TCC secretariat. The project will provide
drawing office and map-making equipment and a microcomputer for the data base
and presentation of results. Traffic counting and pavement monitoring
equipment and a vehicLe are also to be provided (Table 3.5). Up to four
overseas visits of about three months each have been planned for the staff to
gain experience in similar work in other countries, and provision has been



-15-
made, if required, for a limited amount of technicaJ assistance to the
section. In a similar fashion, assistance to the TCC will comprise up to 40
man months of experts time (para 3.11) and office and other equipment for the
secretariat.
(f) Training
3.09      The ongoing training for workshop trades, given by CITP personnel,
will be continued as will the courses for junior management, being run by
CE(R&D). A training planner will be financed by the project to prepare a
study of the long-term training needs and put forward proposals for a
permanent MOH training center. A range of services will be supplied by a
suitable company to give training in the operation of MOH's newly acquired
bitumen emulsion plant and in the use of emulsions in road maintenance. A
further element of the training component will be short overseas courses for
highway planning staff.
(g) Technical Assistance (TA)
3.10      To assist COSL with project execution and to further the project's
.nstitutional objectives, technical assistance will be provided as follows:
(a) a construction management adviser (24 man months) will be attached
to the project management cell (para 3.15) to help DOH deal with
the organizational, contractual and technical problems of a work
program, somewhat outside DOH's recent experience;
(b)   a highway engineering adviser (18 man months) will be responsible
for: (i) helping DOH road and bridge design sections, prepare and
update all designs and contract documents required for the
project's construction component; (ii) assisting DOH's highway
pLanning section with the programming and management of the
remainder of the five-year Road Rehabilitation Program; and (iii)
modernizing and upgrading the DOH sections concerned including
training and preparation of standard drawings and manuals;
(c)   a mechanical engineering adviser (20 man months) will assist DOB in
strengthening its mechanical directorate, in the training of its
personnel and in the orientation of its operating procedures to
manage the growing equipment-hire function effectively. He will
also assist with the introduction into normal operations of road
maintenance equipment being supplied under the first roads project,
and trair. mechanics and equipment operators. He will be
responsible for the upgrading of nine regional workshops and the
mechanical aspects of the bitumen emulsion plant;
(d)   a training planner (4 man months) will be responsible for carrying
out a training needs survey for the future road maintenance
community, and devising a plan and programs fcr permanent



-16-
facilities for ruad maintenance training, addressing the needs of
Government and the private sector; and
(e)   an emulsion training team (10 man months) will be responsible for
training staff involved in the operation of the emulsion plant and
in the storage, distribution and use of the bitumen emulsion.
Draft terms of reference for the three advisers and the planner are attached
as Annex 2; details of the employment of the emulsion team are being
negotiated with a specialist firm. Amounts are included in the TA estimates
for office equipment and transport for these advisers. During negotiations,
Government has agreed to employ these experts under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
3.11      Technical assistance to TCC, to be financed under the project, will
consist of the services of economists, transport specialists and financial
analysts for a total of 40 man months, to assist in studies of the four
priority areas of its proposed work program (para 1.15). Terms of reference
and a draft work program, covering TCC's first two years of operation, have
been agreed with GOSL. The technical assistance budget includes office
equipment and transport to support the secretariat. During negotiations,
Government has agreed to employ these experts under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
D. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$43.6 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange (direct and indirect) cost of US$20.1
million equivalent (46Z), and taxes and duties of US$6.1 million equivalent.
Cost estimates in September 1984 prices are given in the table below; a more
detailed estimate is given in Table 3.7.



-17-
Estimated Project Costs (including taxes)
Total
Rs Million            US Million        Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
A. Road Repairs             292.7  259.6   552.3   11.0   9.8   20.8         47      68
B. Bridge Repairs            81.9   85.1   167.0    3.1   3.2    6.3        51       21
C. Supervision               33.9    8.0    31.8    0.9   0.3    1.2        25        4
D. Equipment Procurement   15.3   25.0    40.3    0.6   0.9    1.5          62        5
E. Training and Advice        3.9   19.0    22.9    0.1   0.7    0.9        83        3
Total BASE COSTS        417.6  396.6   814.2   15.8  14.9   30.7         49      100
(September 1984 prices)
Physical Contingencies  40.8   37.5    78.3    1.5   1.4    3.0          48       10
Price Contingencies    163.2   99.6   262.8    6.2   3.8    9.9          38       32
Total PROJECT COSTS    621.6  533.7 1,155.3   23.5  20.1   43.6          46      142
3.13      A quantity contingency of 5X has been allowed on equipment, spares
and technical assistance to allow for any omissions, and 10% on the works
program. For price increases, the following contingencies have been allowed:
Plant, Equipment
Local Costs      Other Foreign Costs
1985/86           12.0              8.0%
1986/87           11.0              9.0%
1987/88           10.0              9.0%
1988/89            9.0              9.0%
1990--             7.5%             6.0%
Source: IBRD estimates
Cost estimates for plant and equipment are updated from bid prices received
during 1983. Estimates of cost of works are based on cost experience for
similar works during the first roads project and other recent contract works.
Because road works of this size involving foreign contractors, had not been
bid in Sri Lanka for many years, bids were invited and have been obtained for
the first two major contracts before Board presentation. Prices are in line
with the project estimates.



-18-
E. Financing
3.14      The proposed loan of US$24.0 million would finance about 552 of
total project costs, i.e., all foreign -osts (US$20.1 million) and about
US$3.9 million of local costs. The financing plan is given in the table
below:
------------------- US$ millions -----------------
Duties
Local          & Taxes          Foreign    Z      Total    (X)
GOSL    13.50  (78)      6.10   (100)      0               19.60     45
IBRD     3.90  (22)       -              20.10   (100)   24.00       55
17.40  (40)      6.10    (14)   20.10    (46)   43.60   (1l0)
During negotiations, GOSL demonstrated that its FY85 budget provides
sufficient funds (Rs 671 million) for the first year of its Medium-Term
Rehabilitation Program, of which Rs 10.8 million is for GOSL's contribution
to the first year of the cost of the project.
F. Execution of the Project
3.15      Execution of the project, except for the TCC component, will be
the responsibility of MOH. As for the last project, MOK has appointed a
Project Coordinator who will be the principal conduit for contacts with the
Bank. A Project Kanagement Cell (PMC) has been be set up to handle the
letting and management of contracts and through local consulting firms, to
supervise construction, handle payments, claims, etc. The services of an
experienced contracts manager will be made available to this cell, to help
establish its procedures and train staff in dealing with large construction
firms (para 3.10). It is expected that contracts for over half the road
works and the two Kalutara bridges will be won by overseas contractors or
joint ventures, prequalified for the works. A number of domestic contractors
were prequalified for bridge works during the first roads project.
Discussions were held with ACCSL to encourage domestic contractors to
prequalify for road rehabilitation work in a joint-venture association with
experienced foreign firms or as sub-contractors. Such discussions have
produced at least three important joint ventures. This arrangement would be
most effective in transferring management skills to the local partner, and
provide some guarantee of quality for technically difficult tasks, such as
surface dressing. RDA and SD&CC will have to compete with private firms for
road or bridge contracts, and if successful, would act in a client-contractor
relationship to MOH. Quality control will be enforced by materials testing
according to generally accepted technical standa1As and rates of testing.
This task will be the responsibility if CE(R&D), whose laboratories will be



-19-
strengthened in equipment for the purpose (Table 3.5).  Apart from normal
supervision, the Technical a-: Financial Audit (TFA) (para 3.17) will verify
that testing is regularly and correctly carried out on all civil works.
3.16      Work will be paid for at unit rates on an admeasurement basis;
however, final payment certificates will be countersigned by the TFA, which
will certify that the works have been properly carried out, as supported by
random inspections and tests of materials and compliance with specifications.
Technical and Financial Audit and Accounting
3.17      The TFA has been set up within MOH, but independent of DOH, to
monitor work standards and financial control of the project, to support DOH
supervision and accounting, which have been weak during the first roads
project. The unit will check that use of funds is both financially and
technically correct and effective. The TFA is headed by a distinguished
senior engineer, with suitable supporting staff, who will have direct access
to the Secretary of Highways when required, though in everyday operations he
would deal with the Director of Highways. Draft terms of reference for the
TFA have been agreed with GOSL (Annex 3). The format and timeliness of
project accounts during the first project was poor, and the first accounts
audited by the Auditor General's Department (GOSL), as required annually,
were received three years late. As the proposed project is less of an
internal Government affair, auditing by an external independent firm is
indicated. Suitable firms are established in Colombo. To facilitate
payments for both foreign and local expenditures, GOSL will open an account
to be known as the Special Account (sometimes known as a revolving fund) into
which IBRD will deposit initially US$2 million, to be replenished on
production of documentation justifying payments made out of the account on
IBRD's behalf. The account would contain only IBRD's funds. During
negotiations, Government has agreed to adopt satisfactory accounting and
auditing arrangements which would include the presentation of annual audited
accounts by June 30 of the following year. Government also agreed to
maintain a suitably-staffed, euipped and funded PMC and TFA in existence for
the duration of the project.
G. Procurement and Contracting
3.18      Procurement is planned as shown in the table below.  (The figurE-s
in parenthesis are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the
loan.)



-20-
Procurement Schedule
(US$ million including taxes and contingencies)
Procurement Method
Project Element           ICE    LCB    Other            Total Cost
1. Civil Works:
Roadworks             29.5                               29.5
(15.2)                             (15.2)
Bridgeworks            4.5    4.0      0.7  a/            9.2
(2.3)  (1.9)   (0.4)               (4.6)
Supervision                            2.0                2.0
(2.0)  b/          (2.0)
2.  Equipment:               1.2             0.6                 1.8
(0.8)           (0.3)  c/          (1.1)
3.  Training and Advice                      1.1   b/           1.1
(1.1)              (1.1)
Total Project Cost      35.2    4.0      4.4               43.6
(of which World Bank)      (18.3)  (1.9)   (3.8)              (24.0)
a/ Force Account.
b/ Consultation via shortlist.
c/ International shopping.
3.19      Major works have been divided into six contracts, five road and
one bridge, of about US$5 million each, and will be bid through ICB. Bids
are expected from international and domestic firms and from joint ventures
between the two. Where a contract is awarded to a domestic firm or to a
joint venture whose majority partner is a domestic firm, the 7.5% preference
will apply. Kalutara bridges (approximately value US$4.5 million) will form
one ICB contract. The remaining bridges in Table 3.3 (List A) will be done
by prequalified contractors selected through LCB. Existing LCB procedures
use a document agreed to during the current project. Although acceptable,
the procedures and conditions of contract could be improved (para 3.21). The
bridges in Table 3.4 (List B) will be done by force account.
3.20      Equipment and tools will be procured through ICB with a 15%
preference (or the import tariff, whichever is the less) allowed on locally
assembled items, in accordance with Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement."
Pre-shipping inspection of equipment originating outside Sri Lanka will be
required. Items costing under US$50,000 equivalent, up to a total of
US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through GOSL's local bidding
procedures or by prudent international shopping following price quotations
from at least three suppliers. The technical assistance posts will be filled



-21-
by advertising the three posts internationally in appropriate journals, or
after consultation with a shortlist of consulting firms acceptable to the
Bank. Local consultants for supervision will be chosen by inviting proposals
from an agreed shortlist of local or joint-venture local and foreign
consulting firms. In both cases, Bank guidelines will be followed. All ICB
contracts will be subject to prior review; LCB and force account contracts,
except on a random basis during supervision missions, will not be subject to
prior review. There will be one major equipment purchase under ICB which
will receive prior review. In all other cases of equipment purchases whether
by LCB contract or by prudent shopping, Bank review will be required before
payment is made.
3.21      COSL procurement procedures often become protracted.  Cabinet
approval is required for tenders exceeding Rs 5 million (US$208,000).
International shopping under DOH rules achieves almost no saving in time
or bureaucratic complexity compared to full ICB procedure. Operational
efficiency is impaired, for example, by delays in the purchase of spare
parts. GOSL has recently reviewed its procedures and the financial limits
for approval at various levels and does not agree that major changes are
necessary. However, GOSL did agree to monitor procurement progress during
tne project implementation period and to explore with the Bank ways to
improve procurement, if major delays do occur.
H. Disbursements
3.22      Disbursements from the loan would be made on the following basis:
Allocation and Disbursement of the IBRD Loan
Items                           Allocation      Application
(US$ '000)
1) Roadworks by Contract or by Force
Account                                    14,000    52% of total cost
2) Bridgeworks by Contract or by
Force Account                               4,000    52% of total cost
3) Workshop Equipment, Tools, Office
Equipment, Vehicles                         1,000    100% of foreign, 25%
of local cost
4)  Technical Assistance &                        2,500    100% of total cost
Supervision
5)  Deposit into Special Account                  2,000
6)  Unallocated                                      500
24,000



-22-
Withdrawal applications in respect of force account and small civil works
contracts for the equivalent of US$10,000 or less will be made against
statements of expenditures certified by the Chief Engineer and the Project
Accountant, the supporting documentation will be retained at a central
location and made available for Bank representatives for review on request.
Expenditures disbursed against statements of expenditures and transactions
under the Special Account will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. All other items will be fully documented. It is
expected that most disbursements will be channeled through the Special
Account and that reimbursement applications will be submitted on a monthly
basis. Reimbursement will not be sought until expenditures have reached the
equivalent of US$20,000 or more.
3.23      Retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million is proposed to enable
initial payments to be made to contractors in the event that Loan
effectiveness is delayed. An estimated schedule of disbursements (Table 3.8)
has been prepared based on the appropriate IBRD historical profile; the
implementation schedule (Figure 2) is based on more optimistic planning, so
the project could be completed before 1992. Disbursements have not been well
handled in the past due to slow transmission of vouchers from regional
offices to head office, and a lack of urgency in preparing disbursement
requests. However the proposed project will have the benefit of the PMC
(where project accounts will be kept), the construction management adviser,
and of the TFA, through whom all disbursement applications will pass. The
buLk of payments will be for contract works or purchases and should be
straight forward. All project-related force account vouchers will also be
passed through the PMC so that the full cost of a works item can be recorded
and the Bank's contribution accurately assessed. The Special Account (para
3.17) will reduce the number of withdrawal applications reaching Washington,
by enabling GOSL to make most small payments directly, and seek
reimbursements only for significant amounts.
I. Environmental Considerations
3.24      Since the proposed road and bridge works involve no major
earthworks, realignments, or changes to natural drainage, there wiLl be no
effect on the environment. To the extent that road surfaces will be greatly
smoothened and resealed, traffic noise and dust will be decreased, bringing
real enhancement to the quality of life of road-side dwellers and road users.
j. Reporting
3.25      GOSL will submit quarterly reports to the Bank, commencing three
months after loan effectiveness, detailing progress made and highlighting
problems encountered or anticipated, with suggestions on how these may be
overcome. Within six months of project completion, GOSL will prepare a
Project Completion Report, giving the costs and beaefits of the project, its
achievements and shortcomings, and commenting on the performar.ce of COSL,
DOH, the Bank, and of other agencies concerned. During negotiations, the
reporting requirements have been agreed with Government.



-23-
IV. ECOii0MIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
4.01      The project is designed to prevent further deterioration of
Sri Lanka's vital road network which serves the main centers of economic
activity. The road sections included in the rehabilitation program have
exceeded their economic life and are steadily deteriorating. Further
deterioration of the project roads, which already carry heavy traffic, would
result in serious transport capacity constraints as the principal means of
transport in the country is by road.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
Benefits
4.02      The objectives of the project are to facilitate the movement of
goods and passengers and reduce transport costs. The benefits of the project
will be:
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from road rehabilication
and improvement and bridge replacement and repairs;
Cb) avoidance of further deterioration of road surface;
'c) avoidance of bridge closures and possible catastrophic
accidents due to bridge failures;
Cd)  improved routine and periodic maintenance -with technical
assistance and training to be provided under the project;
Ce) higher availability and utilization of equipment with the
procurement of equipment and spares to be procured under
the project; and
(f) improved highway planning and management.
4.03      The quantifiable benefits were measured by the direct savings
derived by highway users. The benefits include onlv the reduction in vehicle
operating costs which were determined by comparing the operating costs of
five types of vehicles, i.e., passenger carsitaxis, minibuses, buses, light
trucks and heavy trucks traveling on the project road sections with and
without the improvement, AC overlay or resealing. Annex 4 and Tables A1-A8
contain the methodology and main assumptions adopted for the economic
analysis. The overall Economic Rate of Return of the rehabilitation program
is 82x.



-24-
Distribution of Benefits
4.04      The trucking industry plays a key role in the distribution of
industrial raw materials, collection of tree crops for exports and transport
of imported foodgrains, thus affecting the welfare of the entire population.
It is reasonable to assume that transport savings made possible by the
project would be passed on to the consumer in the form of lower prices and
increased product availability, in view of the competitive trucking industry
in Sri Lanka. In the case of passenger transport, all classes of the
population are highly mobile, and buses typically make up 30-40% of the total
traffic flow. Public (SLTCB) fares are fixed by the Government and private
rates usually follow SLCTB rates, and therefore, the transport savings would
accrue at first to the bus owners, both public and private. In the long run,
lower and middle income groups would benefit when rate increases are
deferred, as is the usual case, even when the operating costs increase. The
roads and bridges included in the rehabilitation program have been selected
on the basis of highest relative priorities in all parts of the island in
order to reach as large a proportion of the popuLation as possible and to
increase economic activity at the national level.
C. Traffic Volumes and Grow4th
4.05      Existing traffic volumes on the project road sections were
established on the basis of the latest traffic counts conducted in August
1984. The project road sections carry heavy traffic ranging from 900 to
8,000 ADT and connect major cities and agricultural production areas.  Over
80% of the sections proposed for AC overlay carry 3,000 ADT or more with the
remaining sections carrying 1,000-2,000 ADT. Most of the sections proposed
for DBST carry about 1,000-2,000 ADT, with a few sections carrying
2,G00-4,000 ADT. Only on one section, was less than 1,000 ADT recorded
(Tables 4.1 and 4.2). About 70-75% of total motorized traffic is typically
buses and trucks with passenger cars, taxis and jeeps accounting for 25-30%.
4.06      Available data indicate that between 1978 and 1984, traffic volumes
increased by 3-8% p.a. depending on the location. The largest increases were
accounted for by minibuses after the Government introduced an import
liberalization policy in 1977. Between 1976 and 1981, the total number of
registered vehicles increased at 4% p.a., and the number of tractor/trailer
combinations doubled. During the same period, the volume of auto diesel and
petrol sales increased at 5Z p.a. The economic analysis adopted a
conservative estimate of a 5% annual traffic increase in forecasting over a
ten-year period. In computing economic benefits, only the normal traffic
growth has been taken into account.
D. Cost
4.07      The estimated economic costs of AC overlaying and DBST exclude
taxes and duties but include 10% physical contingencies. The estimated cost
of repairs to 28 bridges is Rs 151 million, net of price contingencies and
taxes. Of Rs 151 million, Rs 75 million is for the Kalutara Bridge on
Colombo-Galle Road which has been analyzed separately. The remaining Rs 76



-25-
million allocated for repairs of 27 bridges has been accounted for by adding
the bridge repair costs to the road improvement costs. Thus the unit costs
used to calculate ERRs include both road and bridge rehabilitation work as
well as the cost of equipment to be purchased under the project.
E. Conclusions
Road Rehabilitation
4.08      In view of the high traffic volumes on the roads included in the
rehabilitation program, it is not surprising that all the sections included
in the DBST program yielded very high returns ranging from a low of 21% to a
high of 313%. On the typical road sections where ADT ranged from 842 to
1,502, the Economic Rates of Return (ERR) were from 21% to 89% (Table 4.1).
4.09      Similarly, for the road sections proposed for AC strengthening
overlay, the ERRs ranged from 28% to 150%. The highest return of 150% was
obtained on the road section with ADT of 8,082 and 28% where the ADT was
lowest at 1,447 (Table 4.2). On typical sections where ADT ranged from 2,693
to 3,655, the ERRs were from 38% to 59%.
4.10      These results inId;cate that the proposed road rehabilitation
program is long overdue. Further delay in its implementation would mean
substantial economic benefits foregone. As in the case with most road
rehabilitation projects, the ERRs on the project road sections are very high
since the cost of patching and resealing is relatively small, compared to
large, immediate benefits obtainable from the improvement of riding surface.
Bridge Rehabilitation: Colombo-Galle Road (Kalutara Bridge) 1/
4.11      The analysis of the proposed Kalutara Bridge reconstruction work
was undertaken as a part of the Colombo-Galle road evaluation since the
bridge is an integral part of the road network and there is no alternative
route. In the event that the Kalutara bridge fails, a new bridge would have
to be built in its present location. The existing bridge, built in 1877 as
a combined road/rail bridge, exceeded its economic life long ago, and its
cross-connected through-trusses impede modern heavy vehicLes, particularly,
container traffic which has been rapidly increasing in Sri Lanka. Potential
container traffic is now moving in breakbulk on the Colombo-Galle road where
truck traffic exceeds one thousand (1,075-1,277) vehicles per day. The
elimination of this impediment would bring significant benefits from
containerization, especially in the heavily populated transport corridor of
Colombo-Galle. However, such potential benefits of containerization have
not been quantified. Based on the reduced vehicle operating costs alone,
the estimated ERR amounts to 40% (Table 4.3). If the cost increases by 15%,
1/  This bridge has been referred to singularly although the Kalutara Bridge
is divided into two sections which are connected by a small island in the
middle.



-26-
the ERR would be reduced to 35%. If the benefits decrease by 15%, the ERR
would be further reduced to 34%. If the cost increases by 15% while the
benefit decreases by the same amount, the ERR still yields a high 29%. The
switch vaLue analysis indicated that if the costs alone increase by 170% or
the benefits alone decrease by 63%, the NPV (at 10%) becomes zero
(Table 4.4).
F. Risks
4.12      The principal risks associated with the project execution concern
MOH's administrative capability and the possibility of poor quality
workmanship which may lead to failure or earlier than expected deterioration
of new work. To minimize such risks, the project provides adequate technical
assistance and training of MOH personnel.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached on various issues referred
to in the report, including the following matters of particular significance:
Ca)  the time schedule for the TCC work program, and consultation
procedures with the Bank on the findings of the TCC studies, and on
their implementation (paras 1.15, 2.07, 2.10 and 3.08);
(b)  allocation of maintenance funds for the five-year period, 1985-89
(as shown in Table 2.3), at the minimum levels established by the
technical memorandum issued by the Cabinet (para 2.10);
(c)  consultation procedures with the Bank on the findings of the
training needs survey and the outline plan for an MOH training
center and on their implementation (para 2.14);
(d)  the road and bridge rehabilitation program to be included in the
project, and that the Government must discuss any changes with the
Bank prior to their design (para 3.04);
(e)  annual review with the Bank of the hire rates for any DOH equipment
hired to RDA or contractors executing project works (para 3.06);
(f)  employment of a construction management adviser, a training
planner, a highway engineering adviser, an emulsion training team,
transport specialists and financial analysts under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (paras 3.10 and 3.11);
(g)  adoption of suitable accounting and auditing arrangements to
include the presentation of annual audited accounts by June 30 of
the following year (para 3.17);



-27-
(h) maintenance of the project coordinator, a suitably staffed,
equipped and funded PHC and TFA in existence for the duration of
the project (para 3.17); and
(i) the reporting requirements (para 3.25).
5.02      The following conditions of Board presentation have been met:
(a) responsive bids have been received for two civil works contracts
(para 3.13); and
(b) GOSL has shown that the sums of Rs 671 million and Rs 10.8 million
respectively, have been inscribed in its FY85 budget, the first
year of the Hedium-Term Road Rehabilitation Program and for its
contribution to first year project costs (para 3.14).



-28-
Annex 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROAD PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Reference No.             Title                            File Code
1        Transport Sector Memorandum Report         Report 4857-CE
4857-CE, December 1983, IBRD.
2        Sri Lanka Transport Sector Study 1983
Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, 1983.
3        Mahaweli Ganga Development Project IV      Report 4885-CE
Staff Appraisal Report, May 4, 1984.
4        Traffic counts undertaken in
August 1984.
5        Computer printouts showing economic
analysis.



-29-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Draft Terms of Reference for a Training Planner
Background
1.        The Ministry of Highways executes routine road maintenance in
over fifty Executive Engineer's Districts. New equipment, materials and
techniques have been introduced since 1980 under the IDA-financed Road
Maintenance Project; new equipment is still arriving. There is at present
no permanent training effort within MOH though suitable premises, much
course material and many well-educated senior staff are available to pass
on their knowledge. Basic trade training _.s currently being given by the
IDA-financed Construction Industry Project for some trades, and an ad-hoc
program will be training the new road overseers when these are introduced.
The road maintenance executing agencies are currently in a state of
transition. Once this is over there will be a need for permanent training
centre, embracing the needs of all agencies and firms whether public or
private, involved in road maintenance.
Duties
2.        To execute a training needs survey for all personnel involved in
routine and periodic maintenance of roads whether in public or private
institutions and to develop a comprehensive proposal for the creation of a
permanent training program to satisfy the revealed need. The proposal
should be in a form suitable for inclusion in a possible future World Bank
assisted project, and should include details of who needs to be taught
what, and the physical infrastructure, equipment, materials and
institutional support necessary to carry out the proposed training
program.
Qualifications
3.        The candidate should have a background in highway engineering
at senior technician level or above, with at least five years' experience
in road maintenance, before having specialized in the training field. A
pedagogic qualification will be required together with previous experience
in the preparation of skills inventories, and training needs analyses.
The candidate will work closely with MOH's Chief Engineer (Research and
Development).



-30-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
B. Draft Terms of Reference for a Construction Management Adviser
Background
4.        The Ministry of Highways (MOH) is currently preparing a program
of road rehabilitation to be executed by contract, to be partly financed
by the World Bank. It is expected that six contracts, having a total
value of about US$30 million, will shortly be let through international
competitive bidding. Some twenty smaller contracts for bridges are
expected to be let to local contractors. Supervision of the works will be
made by local consulting firms, whose experience of dealing with
international contractors is limited. Overall administration of the
contracts will be assured by the Project Management Cell (PMC) to be
formed within MOH, an organization which has had little recent experience
of dealing with international contractors. The Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) is keen to improve the skills of its local contractors and to raise
the standards of bid preparation and contract management, to enable
Sri Lankan companies to take on an increasing proportion of the periodic
maintenance program.
5.        To assist with these tasks the Ministry of Highways wishes to
appoint a Construction Management Adviser, to be attached to the Project
Management Cell.
Duties
6.   (a)  To assist PMC in its dealings with supervising consultants and
contractors, to expedite monthly payment certificates, to advise
DOH on technical and contractual problems that may arise. The
adviser will also assist PMC in the preparation of quarterly
withdrawal applications for reimbursement of costs from the
World Bank loan;
(b) to assist the CITP both informally and through occasional
seminars which it will organize, to improve the skills of tender
preparation and site and contract management of local
contractors;
(c) to train the staff of the PMC and other Department of Highways
staff involved with the road and bridge rehabilitation program,
in contract administration; and
(d) to assist DOH in the preparation of contract documents for
future road and bridge rehabilitation contracts.



-31-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
7.        The Ministry of Highways has already established a Technical
and Financial Audit (TFA) which reports directly to the Secretary of
Highways and is charged with independent verification on a random sampling
basis of the financial and technical standards being achieved on
contracts. All withdrawal applications will be vetted by TFA before being
passed for payment. TFA acts as an additional guarantee to the Minister
and the World Bank that technical and financial control are up to
standard. The adviser will be responsible for liason between TFA and PMC.
Qualifications
8.        The candidate should have at least ten years experience in
highway engineering. Although a balance of experience between Government
service, consulting, and contracting is preferred, at least two years must
have been spent as a contracts manager with an international contractor.
An intimate knowledge of conditions of contract (based on FIDIC),
procedures for the sectlement of disputes, and cost accounting are
required. The road works consist of repair and correction of the profile
of 570 km of bitumen roads followed by either asphalt concrete overlay or
a double surface treatment.  Thicknesses will be verified by deflection
measurements on site and alternative solutions to the roads' shortcomings
are expected to be proposed. The adviser must be thoroughly conversant
with all types of bituminous mixtures, including those made with emulsion,
and with "piecemeal" rehabilitation works of this nature. It is planned
to introduce a comprehensive project monitoring system to keep track of
the progress of each contract and procurement under other components of
the project (workshop and laboratory equipment and vehicles), using a
microcomputer and adaptations of off-the-shelf spreadsheet and data base
software. Experience in this field would be an advantage.
Reports
9.        The adviser shall prepare a quarterly report giving a brief
summary of activities undertaken, recommendations made to MOH, and action
taken.
C. Draft Terms of Reference for Highway Engineering Adviser
Background
10.       The Ministry of Highways has "in-house" facilities for highway
planning, road and bridge design which, during years of low road
construction activity, have become ou. of date and of insufficient
capacity, and, because of a previous bias in favor of force account works,
unaccustomed to producing high quality contract documents for
international tendering. Likewise, the design methods and specifications



-32-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
do not incorporate the latest technology, nor are works adequately planned
according to modern principles of pavement management.
11.       The Government has now committed itself to a program of
overlaying and strengthening of the main network, to be executed by
contract, and in the medium term, major new construction is likely. To
strengthen the road and bridge design capability of MOH, the Government of
Sri Lanka, wishes to appoint a Highway Engineering Adviser. The position
will be partly funded by a World Bank loan to the Government of Sri Lanka.
Duties
12.  (a)  To assist MOH in the production of all designs, specifications
and contract documents required for the proposed Second Roads
Project, including liaison with local consulting firms to whom
work may be entrusted and together with the Contracts
Managements Adviser, assist in the resolution of problems which
may arise during contract execution;.
(b) assist MOH in the programming and management of the five-year
road rehabilitation plan. This will incLude introduction of the
principles maintenance planning, of pavement management and the
establishment of a data base in order to determine the program's
priorities and an optimal timing of investments. Field
observation for road inventory were completed in 1982, but the
data have not been analyzed nor presented in useable form. The
traffic counting organization will need strengthening and modern
methods of overLay design based on deflection and roughness
monitoring will need to be introduced;
.c) more specifically to assist MOH in the preparation of contract
documents for the civil works component of a possible future
project; and
td) introduce modern drawing office facilities appropriate to the
service-. required and give training in their use.
Qualifications
13.       The candidate should be a qualified highway engineer or senior
technician with a solid background in highway and bridge design,
preferably with a state highway department, and with at least three year's
site experience. A reasonable familiarity with microcomputers will be
required and previous experience in a training role would be an advantage.



-33-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
D. Draft Terms of Reference for Mechanical Engineering Adviser
14.       The Ministry of Highways, under the World Bank-financed first
roads project, is receiving a major increase to its equipment and plant
fleet including types of machinery not previously used in Sri Lanka.
Furthermore, the proportion of this equipment fleet being hired out to
the private sector is expected to increase. World Bank assistance is
continuing under the proposed Second Highway Project. To help its
mechanical directorate absorb this new equipment into regular use during
the second project, the Ministry of Highways wishes to appoint a
mechanical engineering adviser.
Duties
15.  (a)  Assist with the reception, installation, commissioning and
operation of the new equipment;
(b) assist with the training of mechanics and operators for each
new item;
(c) assist with the introduction of monitoring and costing
procedures into workshop operations, including the establishment
of streamlined hire procedures and a system of readily updatable
hire charges; and
(d) assist with the strengthening of nine regional workshops
including the introduction of tools and equipment to be procured
under the project.
Qualifications
16.       The candidate should be a qualified mechanical engineer or
senior technician with at least seven years experience in the operation
and maintenance of road construction equipment, and in the management of
associated workshops. Experience in training would be an advantage.
Reporting
17.       The candidate will contribute a chapter to the project's
quarterly report, on his activities in the mechanical department.



-34-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROAD PROJECT
Technical and Financial Audit
Duties of the Organization
General
1.        The Government of Sri Lanka (COSL) intends to undertake a Second
Roads Project, with the assistance of the World Bank. As a condition of
providing that assistance, the Bank requires, and GOSL has agreed, that a
Technical and FinanciaL Audit (TFA) be set up and operated to ensure that
generally accepted technical standards are applied in the planning and
design of project work, supervision is adequate to ensure those standards
are reached on project work and that work is conducted with due regard to
both sound engineering practice and economic control of costs.
2.        The work to be done under the Bank-financed project wiLl
include:
(a) bituminous overlay to about 300 km of main road
where warranted by existing pavement condition,
roughness and traffic and following necessary
repairs to the present pavement;
(b) surface resealing of about 270 km of road; and
(c) repairs, strengthening or rehabilitation of
about 28 bridges.
Civil works will be carried out by state corporations or prequalified
contractors, who may be international or domestic.  A  umber of smaller
bridges may be executed by domestic contractors, the State Development and
Construction Corporation (SD&CC) or by force account. The total value of
contract work including taxes and contingencies envisaged under the
project is about SL Rupees 960 million, or about US$40 million.
Duties of the Technical and Financial Audit
3.        In connection with the project work as outlined in para 2, and
for such other works as GOSL may decide, TFA will:



-35-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
(a) ensure that the design of the work is correct and reasonable,
taking into account the circumstances of the site, labor
equipment and materials availability and the expected traffic,
or other, load to be accommodated;
(b) confirm that all necessary preparatory work has been correctly
assessed and carried out prior to any new construction or major
repairs, with particular attention given to existing pavement
condition, the state of the subgrade and drainage in the case of
road works, and scour, flooding and foundations in the case of
bridge repairs and rehabilitation;
(c) check from time to time, according to accepted testing methods
and rates of testing, that the materials incorporated in works
are according to specifications, have been used in sufficient
quantities in order to obtain the required result, and have been
stored, mixed, treated, processed or otherwise used correctly
and according to specifications, and that after their
incorporation into the works, the works are protected, treated
and maintained in such a way that the works are and remain
suitable for their intended purpose;
Cd) ascertain that all works are completed in agreement with planned
dimensions, sizes, levels and grades as shown on drawings,
described in specifications and summarised in Bills of
Quantities, upon which payments are based or reimbursement is
claimed from the World Bank; and
Ce) certify upon completion of any work, or a substantial part
thereof, that they have been correctly and reasonably executed
according to generaLly accepted sound engineering practices and
in agreement with the design dimensions and thicknesses (after
allowing for reasonable tolerances), and that the funds
allocated for the work were reasonable, were correctly accounted
for and controlled during the construction period, and have been
used effectively for the purpose provided.
4.        Project works will continue to be subject to COSL audit
regulations and to inspection and supervision by MOH staff or consultants.
However, IDA will not reimburse for project expenditure on civil works
until TFA has provided the certification described in para 3(e) hereof,
and the Officer in charge of TFA is responsible for providing such
certification in a timeLy and competent manner, so that reimbursements
from IDA are not unreasonably delayed. IDA may make partial
reimbursements on receipts of an interim certificate from the Officer i/c
TFA to the effect that TFA has inspected the works in progress and is
satisfied, subject to further inspection and testing.



-36-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Staff of TFA
5.        The Officer i/c TFA will be an experienced and qualified
engineer used to the supervision and financial control of works in
positions of senior responsibility. He will be appointed to the position
of Officer i/c TFA by the Secretary of Highways for a fixed period, and
may only be removed from that position by order of the Minister. He will
report to the Secretary directly, but shall have access to the Minister
with reasonable cause, normally through the Secretary of Highways, but in
his daily operations he is expected to liaise closely with the Director
of Highways and his staff. The Officer i/c TFA will undertake no other
duties during his period of appointment, and at the termination of his
appointment he will retire from the services of GOSL.
6.        The Officer i/c TFA will be assisted by a staff of engineers,
accountants and technicians as necessary to undertake his duties from time
to time, Subordinate staff may be appointed permanently, seconded from
other branches of GOSL or employed from outside GOSL service. The Officer
i/c TFA may utilize the services of consultants if he considers this to be
necessary and desirable. AlL subordinate staff and consultants, if
employed, will report directly to, and only to, the Officer i/c, and they
shall not undertake any other duties while employed by TFA. The reports
and investigations of TFA will be treated as strictly confidential by all
staff.
Equipment for Testing and Surveys
7.        TFA may use the testing and other facilities of MOH or other
GOSL facilities as may be arranged and convenient. With the authority of
the Officer i/c TFA, commercial testing facilities may also be empLoyed.
GOSL will provide suitable office, furnishings and other necessary
facilities for the exclusive use of TFA.
Powers and Authority of TFA
8.        Under the authority of the Minister, the Officer i/c TFA and
subordinate staff under orders from him shall be empowered to enter upon
works at any time for the purposes of making tests or carrying out
investigations in connection with the duties of TFA. They may uncover or
remove any part of the worka, make use of testing or other equipment on
the site, and examine and copy any technical or financiEl records which
are or may be relevant, all without hinderance.



-37-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Reporting
9.        The results of all investigations carried out by TFA shall be
reported directly to the Minister, and a copy of the report may, but not
necessarily shall, be delivered to the Director of Highways. The Officer
i/c TFA shall, at the end of every three months period, make a brief
suimmary of the work of TFA during the preceding period, with conclusions,
which shall be delivered in duplicate to the Minister. After review, the
Minister will forward to the World Bank in Washington, D.C., USA, those
parts of the summary report dealing with the Bank project.



-38-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - Assumptions and Methodology
A. Vehicle Operating Costs
1.        The representative vehicles were selected on the basis of interviews
with deaLers and transport agencies; and are shown in Table A-1. The vehicle
operating cost (VOC) components are: (a) fuel consumption;
(b) depreciation; (c) tires; (d) maintenance; (e) labor (crew cost);
(f) registration and insurance fees; and (g) overhead.
(a)  Fuel Consumption
2.        Based on actual tests in Sri Lanka, fuel consumption on a level
tangent road in good condition has been estimated for various travelling
speeds in Table A-2 which also shows the relationship between the fuel
consumption rate and the travelling speed. The average vehicle speed on the
project road sections ranges at present from 45 km/hour (kph) to 55 kph.
In estimating VOCs on the existing roads, the average speed limit was assumed
at 50 kph. With an improved surface, the average speed was assumed to
increase to 65 kph.
(b) Depreciation costs
3.        The depreciation cost has been divided into (a) distance-related
costs and (b) time-related costs. The depreciation cost per km was
estimated from the retail price of the vehicle, residual value, years in use,
operating distance per year and the 12% discount rate. A half of the
depreciation and interest costs was allocated to the distance-related
component and the other half to the time-related component (Table A-3).
(c) Tire Cost
4.        The tire cost per km was calculated from the data on the prices of
tire (Table A-1) and assumed usage in km shown in Table A-4.
(d) Maintenance Cost
5.        The maintenance and repair costs are divided into those of labor and
spare parts costs. The spare parts cost has been calculated by using the
expenditure on spare parts as a percentage of the initial vehicle price while



-39-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
the labor cost has been calculated based on the labor hours spent for
maintenance per annum (p.a.). These data are shown in Table A-5. The
maintenance cost per km has been illustrated in Table A-6.
(e) Labor (Crew Cost)
6.        The labor/crew cost was determined based on the current average wage
rates of drivers and assistants of commercial and private vehicles shown in
Table A-7. The crew costs per hour are shown in Table A-6.
(f) Insurance Fees
7.        The annual insurance fees are actual, published
rates. Per hour costs have been calculated as shown in Table A-8.
(g) Overhead Costs
8.        The overhead costs include office rent, administration, management
fees and the like. The overhead costs have been calculated as 10X of total
operating costs for passenger cars and 25% for other vehicles. These
percentages have been adopted based on the Transport and Road Research
Laboratory Study, Report No. 672 (1975).
B. Surface Roughness
9.        The present road surface roughness, i.e., "ort"
ranges from 4,600 mm/km to 5,300 mm/km. "r" is a measure of the total
vertical movement of a standard wheel relative t its frame when towed at 30
kph over a section of road. The values given here are typical for the
conditions described. Metric units are used to correspond with UK Transport
and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL) publications. Although the likelihood of
the present "r" values increasing to 7,000 mm/km is large in the "without
the project" scenario, it was assumed that the roughness conditions will
remain as at present. It was assumed that after resealing and pothole
repairs (DBST), the surface roughness would be reduced to and remain at
3,000 mm/km. Similarly, it was assumed that by applying a premix carpet
(AC), the "r" values would be reduced to and remain at 2,400 mm/km. The
estimated "r" values possible after the DBST and AC applications are based on
Table 28 of the TRRL Laboratory Report, No. 672 (1975).
10.       The estimates of additional VOC with increasing roughness of road
surface have been based on actual experiments on selected road sections in
Sri Lanka. It was found that average incremental costs for each successive
300 mm/km for different types of vehicles were as follows:



-40-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Incremental VOC per 300 mm/km
(In percent)
Passenger Cars                   2.6
Buses                            2.4
Micro/Medium buses               2.3
Heavy trucks                     2.6
Medium/Light trucks              2.2
11.       These general relationships were also found in the extensive
experiments conducted in the Philippinesl/ where road conditions are
similar to those in Sri Lanka.
12.       Resealing was assumed to be required after 500,000 vehicle
passings, or seven years life, whichever is less. On the average,
resealing is required in every fifth year in view of the heavy traffic
volumes forecast on many of the Project road sections.
C. Travelling Speeds
13.       The average speed under the present road conditions is 50 kph.
After the improvement average speeds would increase to 65 kph. However,
in the economic analysis it was assumed that benefits would accrue only
from reductions in vehicle operating costs resulting from improved road
surface. The avoidable cost of congestion on heavily travelled road
sections were similarly not quantified even though they constitute real
benefits.
D. Maintenance
14.       The improved road surface under the project would require less
maintenance expenditures than the badly deteriorated surfaces in the
"without the project" case. Due to inadequate data, however, possible
savings in maintenance expenditures have not been quantified.
I/ Norconsult, Philippine Road Feasibility Studies II (1979).



SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Prices of-Repreuenta*tive V,bicle. and Tire.
()K
In Rs
Vehicle Typ                       Import                     Local Cost    Bales       Total            Economic
& No. of Tires                   Price (CIF)      Duties    Component       Tax       Retail Prices   Cost
Passenger cars/taxis
Complete jJ                     97,690         119,380      19,600        43,330     280,000        117,290
4 tires                           1,986           1,192      2,026           456        5,660         4,012
Net (w/o tires 2/)               95,704         114 188     17,574        42,874      274,340       113,278
Buses (CLCTB 31)
Complete LI                    250,792           81, 508    158,150       25, 813     516,263       408, 942
6 tires                           4,354           5,138      9,005           332       1 8,828        13,358
Net (w/o tires 2/)              246,438         76,370    1,49,145        25,481     497,435        395,584
Nedium/Micro Buses
Complete 1/                    260,000          26,000      24,281        34,719     345,000        284, 281
6 tires                           2,396           1,438      6,090           696       10,620          8,486
Net (vlo tires 21)              257,604         24, 562     18,191        34,023     334,380        275,793
Hedium Truck
Complete LI                     160,000         24,000      28,162        22,838     235,000        188,162
6 tires                           2,396           1,438      6,090           696       10,620          8, 486
Net (w/o tires 2J)              157,604         22,562      22,072        22,142      224,380       179,676
Heavy Truck including
Container Trailer                                                                                                       
Complete J                      240,000         36,000      63,877        35,123     375 000        303,877       0 >
6 tires                           6,371          3, 823     16,906         1, 880      28, 980        23,277
Net (v/o tires 2/)              233,629         32,177      46,971        33,243     346,020        280,600
j/  Complete vehicle including tires and boty.
VJ vlo - without
J  SLCTB - Sri Lanka Central Transport Board



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Fuel Consumption by Speed
(litre/1000 kl)
I  I    I         I          I           I                 I          I        IHeavy Truck I          I
ISpeed  I Passenger I           I Heavy Bus I          I Medium &  I Medium I           I Container   1         I
l(km/h) I Car/taxis I Index I (SLCTB)   I Index I Micro Bus I Truck  I Index I Trailer                  I lndexl
I        I             I        1            I        I             I          I        I               I       I
1   5   1   207.3    1  292  1   714.3    1  329  1   359.6    1 340.8  1  300  1   587.9               1  331 1
1  10   1   165.4    1  233  1   555.6    1  256  1   279.8   1 265.8  1  234  1   449.3                1  253 1
1  15   1   138.5    1  195  1   454.5   1  209  1   228.4    1 217.0   1  191  I   364.1               1  205 1
1  20   1   118.6    1  167  1   384.6    1  177  1   193.5    1 185.2  1  163  1   305.5               1  172 1
1  25   1   105.8   1  149  1   333.3    1  153  1   167.2    1 164.7   1  145  1   262.8               1  148 1
I 30    1    95.9    1  135  1   294.1    1  135  1   147.6    1 148.8  1  131  1   238.0               1  134 1
1  35   1    88.0    1  124  1   270.3    1  124  1   135.6    1 136.3   1  120  1   211.0              1  119 1
1  40   1    83.1    1  117  1   250.4    1  115  1   125.7    1 127.2   1  112  1   200.7              1  113 1
1  45   1    78.1    1  110  1   238.1    1  110  1   120.2    1 119.3   1  105  1   186.5              1  105 1
1  50   1    75.3    1  106  1   227.3    1  105  1   114.8    1 114.7   1  101  1   181.2              1  102 1
1  55   1    73.1    1  103  1   222.2    1  102  1   111.5    1 113.6   1  100  1   177.6              1  100 I
1  60    1    71.7    1  101  1   217.4    1  100  1   109.3    1 114.7   1  101  1   179.4             1  101 I
1  65   1    71.0    1  100  1   222.2    1  102  1   111.5    1 115.9   1  102  1   1.81.2             1  102 1
1  70   1    71.7    1  101  1   232.6    1  107  1   117.0    1 119.3   1  105  1   186.5              1  105 1
1  75   1    72.4    1  102  1   243.9    1  112  1   122.4    1 124.9   1  110  1   195.4              1  110 I
I  80   1    73.8   1  104  1   263.2    1  121  1   132.3    1 129.5  1  114  1   211.3                1  119 1
1  85   1    75.3    1  106  1   297.5    1  131  1   143.2    1 135.2   1  119  1   229.1              1  129 1
I                                                                                      .    . I        .      



-43-
Annex 4
Table A-3
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Capital and Interest Cost
I           Type of Vehicle  I  Passenger  I Bus           I Medium &  I  Medium  I Heavy Lorryl
I Ite                          I  Car          I  (SLCTB) I Micro Bus I  Lorry   I Container  I
I   _  _ _   _   _   _    _   _I   _ _  _I__        _ _  _    I  __ _ _ _I  _  _  _  _I  _ _ _ _   _
I (A) Initial Vehicle Cost  I                  I           I              I           I              I
I    (Economic Cost without I                  t           I              I           I              I
I     Tires)                   1  113,278    1  395, 584 1   275,795  1  179,676 1  280,600   1
I                              I               1           I              1           1              1
I (B) Vehicles use in years I           12     1        13 1         13  1         15 1        15   1
I                      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~~I  I  t      I           I              I
I (C) Residual Value           I               I           1              I           1              I
I     (Present Worth)          1    2,908    1    9,066 1         6,321  1    3,283 1    5,126   1
I (D) Depreciation Value       I               I           t              I           I              I
;     (A - C)                  1  110,370      1 386, 518 1   269,474  1  179,393 1  275,474   1
:                                              ;           I              I           I 
I (E) Capital Recovery         I               I           I              I           I              I
Factor                   1   0.1614      1   0.1557 1    0.1557  1   0.1468 1   0.1468   1
:                      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~~I  I  I      I           II
1 (F)nnual Cost                I               I           I              I           I
;     -'D s 1)                 1   17, 814    1   60,181 1    41,2957  1   25, 894 1   40,440   1
:                                      I             I             I            I             I
1 (G) Life Operation (km)   1  200,000    11,105,000 1   520,000  1  600,000 1  750,000   1
I                              :               I           I              I           I*             I
I (H) Annual Operation (km) I                  I           I              I           I
I     (G/B)                    I   16,667      1   85,000 1    40,000  1   40,000 1   50,000   1
I (I) Distance-Related Cost I                  I           I              1           1              I
I     (DIB) x 1/2 - Rs/Km    1                             I              I           I
H                  1   0.2759      1   0.1749 1    0.2591  !   0.1470 1   0.1836   1
I (J) Annual Operation Era. 1    1,600         1    4,800 1       3,000  1    3,000 1    3,000   1
I (K) Time-Related Cost        I               I           1              1           1              1
I     (D/B) x 1/2 - Rs/hr   I                  I           1              I           I              I
I           J                  1   2.8742    I   3.0971 I    3.4548  .   1.9599 1   3.0608   1
1                              I               I           1              1           II
I (L) Interest Charge          I               I           I              I           I              I
I     (F-DIB): J, in Rs/hr  1   5.3853         1   6.3435 1    7.0761  1   4.7115 1   7.3584   1
I                              I               I           I              1           1              I



-44-
ANNE
Table A-4
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Lives of Vehicle. OperatinR Hours of Vehicles and Lives of Tires
I              Items   I           I Vehicle        I Operation I Tire    I
IType of               I Life in   I Life operation I per day,  I Life km I
IVehicle               I use Years I km             I hours    I per set I
!               ~      ~     ~~~I  I          I          I  
MPassenger Car         1   12      1    200,000    1   5       1 28,000  1
IBus (SLCTB)           I   13      1  1,105,000    1  16       1 56,000  I
1                      1           I                I          I         I
:I.edium & Micro bus   1           1                1          1         1
l(private line)        1   13      1    520,000    1  10       1 32,000  1
:                            I             I             I          I
INedium Trucks         1           1                1          1         1
1(1-4 ton, 2 axles)    1   15      1    600,000    1  10       1 36,000  1
I                      ;           I                I          I         I
]Heavy Lorry & Containerl          1                1          1         1
ITrailer (more than    I           I               I           I         I
14 ton, 3 axles)       1   15      1   750,000     I  10       1 52, 000  I
I                      I           I               I           I         I



-45-
Annex 4
Table A-5
SRI LANKA
SECORD ROADS PROJECT
Annual Maintenance Cost of Vehicle
I                          ~~~~~~~~I                                I
I       Parts (excluding Tires)       i                Labor                  I
---------- -I ----
I                  I                  I              I          I             I
Items    I Expenditures on  I Expenditures on I Labor  hours I            I            t
I parts in per     I parts in Rupees I for mainte-  I Wage ratel Labor  costl
hicle             I cent of initial  I per anuuo        I nance         I per hour I per annum  I
_pe                I vehicle price    I (Rs/Year)         I per annum    I (is/hour)l (Rs/Year)  I
I                  I                  I              I          I             I
Il                 I                  I              I          I             I
-asenger Car       t      5.0         1    .5,664       1    50         1 10.0    I   S00       1
I                  I                  I              I          I             I
-  (SLCTB)        I      7.5Z         1    29,669       1   380         1 10.0    1 3,800       1
.I                 I                  I              I          I             I
-dium & Micro Bus  I      7.5Z         1     20,685      1   300         1 10.0    1 3,000       1
I                  I                  I              I          I             I
dium Lorry        I      7.5Z         1     13,476      1   200         1 10.0    1 2,000       1
1                  1                  I              I          I             I
avy Lorry         I                   I                 I               I          I            I
atainer Trailer   1      7.51         I    21,045       I   200         1 10.0    1 2.000       1



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle Cueratiax Costa at 50 ku/hour
(Rs/1000 kl)
Copneat*
Vebicle                                                h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kintenauae  Capital    Crewr          lnsursace   OverheAd
Typcs -V         \Fuel                  Oil      Tire   Deprec iation   PartsB   Labour  Cost           Cost     Registrat ion  faee          Cost        Total
Passenger Cars, Taxis       822.3   18.5    143.3       275.9        339.8    30.0       165.2       17.6        5.0           18.8        183.6      2,020.0
Bus (BLCTD V/)            1,396.1   43.4    238.5       174.9        349.1    44.7       188.8      225.0        3.1             -         665.9      3,329.5
Nicro/lediuu Bus            705.1   21.9    265.2       259.1         517.1    75.0      210.6      164.0        5.3           30.0        563.3      2, 816.6
Medium Truck                704.5   21.9    235.7        147.0       336.9    50.0        8D.0       80.0        5.3           1i.3        432.0      2,160.0
Heavy Truck               1,112.9   34.6    447.6       183.6        420.9    40.0       184.9      184.9        5.9           30.0        667.2      3,336.0
i.e
;jj  Passenger Care-Mitsubishi (1,400 cc); $us-Ashok Leyland (6,075 cc); micro/sediu= buses-Nitsubishi Rosa (3,298 cc);
Medium truck (1-4 ton, 2 axles)-Mitsubishi Canter (3,298 cc); Hearvy Truck (5 ton and above, 3 axles and
container trailer)-Xitsubiebi luso (6,557 cc).
B/ SLCTD-Uri Lanka Central Transport Board.



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Crev Cost
I           Items    I           I Monthly    I Annual Income I Annual Crew        I Operational I Annual    I
IType of             I           I Income per I per person    I Cost per           I hours per   I Operation I
IVehicle             I           I person (Re)!  (Re)           I vehicle (Re)     I day         I hours 3)  I
I  - I            -- I~~~~~~              ~~~------ -------                ------
I                    I.          I             I                1                    
ITaxi                I Driver   1  1,200    1   14,400          1  14,400          1   10         I  3,000   1
I                    I           I             I                I                  I                         I               1
IBus (SLCTB;         I Driver   1  1,250    1   15,000          1 2)               1              1           1
I Conductorl   1,000    1   12,000        1  54,000           1   16        1  4, 800   I
I                    I           I             I                1                  1              1           1
IMedium & Micro Bus  I Driver   I  1,250    1   15,000          1                  1 I
I (Private line)     I Conductorl      800    1    9,600        1  24,600          1    10        1  3,000   1
1            1           1~~~~~~~ I                    I                   1             1 
IMedium Lorry        I Driver   I  1,000    1   12,000          1  12,000          1   10         1  3,000   1
IHeavy Lorry         I Driver   I  1,500    1   1  000          1         1        1              1           1
H Helper   1      800    1    9,600       1  27,6001   1)   I               I           I
I                    I           I                             I         I        I              1  
IContainer           I Driver   I  1,800    1   21,600          1         1 27,741 1              1           1
ITrailer             I Helper   1      800    1    9,600        1  31,2001         1    10        1  3,000   1
Note:  1)  Average of heavy lorry and container trailer veighted by the number
of trips obtained from OD survey conducted in February 1983.                                               t X
2)  It Vas assumed to work in shifts of 8 hours.                                                               t >
3)  300 vorking days a year, per vehicle.



-48-
ANNIX
Table A-8
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Registration Fees and Insurance Fees
(In Rupees Per Year)
IKind of Fee          I           Insurance Fees          y     I
I                      -----------------------------------------
I                     I              I Comprehensive            I
IVehicle Type         I Compulsory  I (all risk)         Total  I
I               I              I                          I
I                     I              I                          I
IPassenger Car        1      50      1     1450          1,500  1
I                     I              I                          I
IBus (SLCTB)          I      10      1      - 2J            10  1
I                     I              I                          I
IMedium & Micro Bus    1    300      1     4200          4, 500  1
INedium Lorry         1    230       1     1770          2, 000  1
lheavy Lorry          1    300       1     4200          4,500  1
IContainer Trailer    1    300       1     4200          4,500  1
I                     I              I                          I
Source:  J  Insurance Corporation
VJ Not carried by SLCTB



-49-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
THE TRANSPORT COORDINATING COMMITTEE 1/
Terms of Reference
1.        The Committee wishes to examine the major transport issues with a
view towards recommending organizational, administrative, fiscal and legal
measures required for improved planning, implementing, monitoring and
evaluating transport investment programs and operations. To achieve this
objective, the Committee set up a technical secretariat, composed of
economists, statisticians and operations specialists. The secretariat
headed by an experienced transport specialist will organize itself so as to
possess the capability to undertake indepth analyses of issues in the sector
and to establish an information resource base. The secretariat whose
medium-term objective is to evolve it into a full-fledged transport planning
team, will initialLy address the following important issues with the
assistance of a team of transport experts.
A. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.        This review will include an examination of the current institutional
arrangements to find means to achieve:
(a) Coordinated inter-modal transport planning to support the
country's development objectives at minimum cost to the
economy;
(b) improved intra-modal planning within each transport agency by
integrating individual projects into meaningful and
cost-effective programs;
(c) balanced investment among different modes, as well as between
new transport project and replacement of existing facilities
and equipment, based on their respective economic contributions
to the transport needs;
1/ Formerly known as Inter-Ministerial Committee for Coordination and
Planning of Transport.



-50-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
(d) coordinated operational, pricing and regulatory policies for
the transport sector; and
(e) overall rational transport planning and coordination through
appropriate organizational arrangements and training.
B. The Role of the Railway and Railway Tariff Policy
3.        This work will be concerned with an examination of the existing
tariff structure and fares and rates for railway freight and passenger
traffic to determine:
(a) annual economic costs of subsidies to railway operations;
(b) short-run marginal costs of railway operations and compare
these costs with existing charges;
(c) the productivity of the railway operations;
(d) potential traffic demands for railway traffic, assuming tariffs
based on short-run marginal costs;
(e) the role of the railways in meeting transport requirements if,
through proper analysis, it can be demonstrated that certain
types of goods and passengers can be carried by the railways
economically;
(f) various reform measures, such as revised pricing, improved
management and operation, organizational structure and the
like, required to make the railway operations viable if the
Committee can make a case for continued railway operations;
and
(g) a time-bound implementation program for such needed reforms.
C. Road User Charges and Fuel Pricing
4.        The focus of this work will be a review of the existing taxes
paid by road users to see whether the taxation system meets the objectives
of economic efficiency, equity, revenue generation, energy conservation
and administrative simplicity in revenue collection. The primary concerns
are:
(a) Do road users pay in taxes at least the economic cost which
their use of the road incurs? This requires estimating the
total taxes paid by each vehicle category and comparing them
with the corresponding road use costs.



-51-
An.ex 5
Page 3 of 4
(b) Are the fuel taxes and prices based on their production costs?
If not, what distortions exist and what are the costs to the
economy? Does the present pricing policy achieve the objective
of energy conservation?
(c) What changes are needed in the forms of taxation and
administrative mechanisms for collecting and channelLing
revenues to increase efficiency of the transport system?
D. The Respective Roles of the Public and Private Sectors in Road
Passenger Service
5.        The objective of this task is to formulate a rational bus
transport policy and define the respective roles of the private and public
bus services. To achieve this objective, the following topics will be
examined:
(a) the present route and operating licensing practices;
(b) the basis for granting new licensee;
Cc) the existing fares and pricing structure;
(d) the productivity of private vs public bus operations; and
(e) the management and operating patterns of bus passenger
services, including scheduling, routing and quality of
service.
6.        After the analysis of these issues, recommendations will be made
on the measures to promote:
(a) coordinated provision of public and private passenger bus
services which are complementary, resulting in efficient use
of available capacity;
(b) rational fare structure based on costs;
(c) financial and operational autonomy needed by the public
sector to compete with private buses;
(d) improved productivity through better management; and
(e) financial viabiLity of public bus operations and phasing out
all subsidies.



-52-
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
E. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Requirements
7.        There are lengths of highways throughout the country where the
pavement failures have either occurred or are imminent because of long
neglected drainage systems, with the resultant high vehicLe operating
costs and increased accidents. The Committee shall examine the selected
key issues relating to road maintenance and rehabilitation and recommend
remedial measures. Specifically, the Committee shalL address the need and
means for:
(a) mobilizin.6 financial resources required for the rehabilitation
of deteriorated road sections;
(b) preparing an investment program for road rehabilitation/
maintenance based on a proper economic analysis to determine
priorities and investment timing;
(c) determining the level of rehabilitation/maintenance feasible
for implementation on an annual basis commensurate with
financial and staff resource availability;
(d) achieving improved management, practices, institutional
arranZements, and maintenance methods; and
Ce) attracting and retaining capable staff to carry out required
activities.



-53-
Table 1.1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Passenger Traffic
(Billion Passenger-kms)
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
Rail                  2.8       3.7      4.1       3.8      3.0
SLCTB and RTBs       15.4      17.8     19.3      19.8     13.8 /a
Private Buses
(estimated)            -         -       1.8       4.2      6.3
18.2     21.5      25.2     27.8      23.1
==   ===-=
Freight Traffic
(Million Ton-kms)
Rail                223.2    280.7    279.2    206.3    223.6
Road              1,062.8  1,217.6  1,394.0  1,597.9  1,830.6
1,286.0  1,498.3  1,673.2  1,804.2  2,054.2
a!  Route mileage served by RTBs reduced in 1981.



-54-
Table 1.2
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle Registrations
Registered as New in
1977     1978    1979        1980      1981      1982
Cars and Taxis                 3,374    6,883   10,882    6,730    5,760    4,800
Motorcycles                    1,106    5,257   15,495   34,725   17,160   11,772
Private Buses                     80       266    1,576    2,658    2,330    3,350
CTB Buses                        959       607       747       788        24        46
Lorries and Miscellaneous        956    4,947    6,466    9,452    7,842   11,748
Total                      6,475   17,960   35,166   54,353   33,116   31,716
Total Fleet 000's
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Cars and Taxis                    97        97       166       120       126       133
Motorcycles                       24        30        45        80        97       111
Private Buses                      1         1         3         5         8         9
CTB Buses                         12        13        14        15        15        18
Land Vehicles                     32        38        46        55        59        68
Lorries and Miscellaneous         42        53        51        61        69        74
Total                        208       232       325       337       374       413
Source: Sri Lanka Statistical Abstract, July 1983



-55-
Table 1.3
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Ports Throughput
(Millions of Tons)
1978       1979        1980       1981
Imports:
wet                 2.03       2.09        2.27       2.08
Dry                 2.47       2.70        2.50       2.23
Exports               1.11       1.12        1.19        1.24
Total                 5.61       5.91        5.96        5.55



-56-
Table 2.1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Classification of Road Maintained by DOH
and by Local Authorities
Monitored by DOB                                    Length of Road (miles)                             (Ku)
Class     Description                 1961      1967     1971      1976      1977     1978      1980      1982    2.
A       National Roads             1,850    2,178    2,201    2,221    2,211    2,427    3,754    4,050
B       Provincial Roads           2,412    2,957    3,100    3,241    3,218    3,026    5,082    4,875
C       District Roads LJ          3,905    4,236    4,488    5,698    5,776    6,121   10,289   10,409
D       Access Roads jj            2,556    3,054    2,972    4,357    4,257 O  3,458    5,517    5,418    --
E       Minor Access Roads IJ        853       545      59')      878    1,213       447 ./   655       714
Total (Miles)            11.576   12.970   13.351   16.395   16.675   15.479   _
Total (Km)               18,522    20,752  21,362   26,232   26,680   24,766   25,297   25,466   1-
Roads under Local Authorities:
1980      1982
-- Fi --
Metalled and Tarred       5,995      6,081
Gravelled                24,901    27,417
Other                     9.o97      9,843
Total:         40.593    43.341
1j  Improvement funds for road classes C, D and E are
channeled through district ministers.
V   Some Class D and E roads handed back to the Irrigation
Department for maintenance in 1977 and 1978.
I Between 1978 and 1980 Sri Lanka converted to the metric system.
Source; DOH and National Planning Division Statistics.
July 1983



-57-
Table 2.2
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Highway Expenditures
(Rs million)
Capital Expenditure              Maintenance Expenditure
rn Constant                        In Constant
Year       Expenditure       1974 Prices      Expenditure       1974 Prices
1974          46.30             46.30            43.81             43.81
1975          81.70             73.07            49.71             44.46
1976          114.54            93.23            50.03             40.73
1977         100.36             68.52            55.52             37.91
1978          n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              n.a.
1979         255.3             100.07             97.7             38.29
1980         405.5            142.25             118.2             41.46
1981         215.4             61.74             129.4             37.09
1982         235.0             60.74             148.3             38.33
1983         225.0 (e)         50.57             165.6 (e)         37.22
n.a. = not available
e    =  estimated
Source:  DOH Statistics of Expenditure and COSL Price Deflators.
July 1983



-58-
Table 2.3
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways Proposed Five-Year Expenditures
------- -- Rs Million
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    Total
Routine Maintenance           220    240    260    280    300    1,300
Repair of Flood Damage          15     15     10      10     10        60
Periodic Maintenance:         241    404    526    569    812    2,552
Pavements                 (206)   (359)  (451)  (489)  (717)  (2,222)
Bridges and Culverts       (35)    (45)   (75)   (80)   (95)    (330)
Betterment                    80      120    135    100      50       485
Adoption of Rural Roads        6       12     18      24     30        90
Purchase of Equipment        109       66    119    171      13       478
Total                     671      857  1,068  1,l54  1,215    4,965
Source:  GOSL Technical Committee report on Cabinet Memorandum



-59-
Table 3.1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Sections of Road Proposed for Asphalt Overlay
Roughness
Name of Road                     Length (Km)                ummlKm
Colombo-Kandy (Al) (9 MP-32 MP)              37                  4,600-5,300
Hinuwangoda-Gampaha-Miriswatte                4                  4,950-5,000
(Miriswatta to Campaha)
Jaela-Ekala-Gampaha-Yakkala (A33)             4                  4,800-4,925
Approach road to Oil Refinery                 3.2                4,950
Colombo-Kandy (Al) (32 MP-72 MP)             64.37               4,500-4,900
Colombo-GalLe-Hambantota-Wellawaya
WAz) (20 MP-56 MP, 58 MP-59 MP)            59.5                4,675-5,130
Katukurunda-Nagoda-Matugama
(OMP - 1.5 MP)                              2.5                4,850
Colombo-Gale-Hambantota-Wellawaya
(A) (73 MP-113 MP)                         64.4                4,800-5,000
Kandy-Jaffna Road (A9) OMP 15 MP             24.1                4,725-4,900
Kandy-Mahiyangz;a-Padiyatalava
(A26) OMP-3 MP                              4.8                4,800
Approach Road to Railway Station
(Randy)                                     1.8                5,000
Katugastota-Kurunegala-Puttalam
OMP - 7 MP                                 11.2                4,800-4,950
Peradeniya-Badulla-Chenkaladi
0-13 MP                                    20.9                4,000-4,800
Total:       301.8
HP = mile post



-60-
Table 3.2
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Program
Sections Proposed for Surface Treatment
Roughness
Name of Road                        Length (Km)              tm/KiD
Kurunegala-Narammala-Madape                   61.0                  4,900
Negombo-Ciriulla (first 2 miles
from Negombo in premix overlay
program                                     34.5                  4,900
Kelaniya-Biyagama-Mudungoda                   28.5                  4,900
Ekala-Gampaha                                  9.5                   5,000
Minuwangoda-Campaha                            8.7                   4,800
Kandy-Rikiligaskada
(Road starts from Tennekumbura)             32.0                  4,600
Kotte-Bope (Battaramulla to
Padukke)                                    24.0                  5,100
Colombo-Horana (from Kohuwala-
Colombo Region)                             19.3                  5,300
Colombo-Horana (Kalutara Region)               6.5                  5,100
Panadura-Ratnapura (from Horana)              48.0                  4,800
Total:           272.0
Source: 1981 Inventory and Condition Survey.
Note: The roughness values are from the 1983 condition surveys before
the unprecedented rains from December 1983 to March 1984.



-61-
Table 3.3
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation Program - List A
Bridgework to be Executed by Contract
Estimated
E.E.'s      Description        Cost
Bridge No. and Location             Division        of Work 1/   Rs million
1.  27/1 and 27/2 at Kalutara
on Colombo Galle Road              Kalutara         RpB            120.0
2.  38/1, Colombo Calle Road             Kalutara         W & R           11.0
3.  1/8, Kirindiwita Ganemulla Road    Udugampola         W & R           11.0
4.  25/2, Galle Deniyaya Road            Weligama         W & R            3.0
5.  42/1, Batticaloa Trincomalee Road  Batticaloa         W & R            9.0
6.  153/6, (243/5 km), C.R.W.B Road    Monaragala         W & R            9.0
7.  159/4 (253/4 km), C.R.W.B Road       Monaragala       W & R            3.4
8.  183/2, Colombo Galle Hambantota
Wellawaya Road                     Monaragala       W & R            7.0
9.  53/2, Tawalantenne Talawakelle
Road                               Dimbula          W & R            6.0
10. New bridge replacing 12/4, 12/5,
and 12/6
Kantale Seruwila Road              Trincomalee      RpC              5.0
11.  13/1, Kantale Seruwila Road          Trincomalee      RpC              5.0
12.  15/4, Kantale Seruwila Road          Muttur           RpC              5.0
13.  16/1, 16/2, Kantala Seruwila Road  Muttur             RpC             16.0
14.  18/1, 18/2, Kantala Seruwila Road  Muttur             RpC              5.0
15. 15/3, Maradankaawela Habarana
Road                               Maradankadawela RC                2.0
16.  18/2, Ekala Campaha Road             Udugampola       RC               3.5
17.  17/13, Colombo Kandy Road            Udugampola       W                4.0
18. Across Mee Oya on Moragollagama
Nikaweratiya Road                  Kurunagala       RC           5__
224.9
1/ W&R = Widening and Reconstruction.
W   = Widening.
RpB = Replacement of Existing Bridge.
RpC = Replacement of culvert, etc., by a new bridge.
Rd R Redecking of existing bridge.
RC = Repair or Reconstruction.



-62-
Table 3.4
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Bridge RehabiLitation Program - List B
Bridgework to be executed by Direct Labor
Estimated
E.E.'s      Description        Cost
Bridge No. and Location            Division        of Work 1/   Rs million
1.  10/11, Ambalangoda Elpitiya
Pitigala Road                     Elpitiya          W&R             2.0
2.  45/5, Colombo Galle Road             Hikkaduwa         W&R             3.0
3.  9/4, Alawwa Dampalessa Road          Polgahawela       W & R          2.0
4.  1/1, Laxapana Murry Road             Norwood           w & R           1.6
5.  1/6, Katunayake Veyangoda Road       Negombo           RpB             3.0
6.  27/1, Kottawa Ahangama Road          Baddegama         W & R           1.5
7.  22/9, Hakmana Mee Ella
Thalahagamaduwa Road              Tangalla          Rd              2.5
8.  6/3 (10/2 Km) Colombo Kandy Road   Dompe              W                1.0
9.  1/1, Gorakaduwa Road                 Elpitiya          Rd              1.5
10.  Lagoon Bridge, Chilaw               Chilaw            Rd              1.5
19.6
1/  W&R = Widening and Reconstructior.
W   = Widening.
RpB = Replacement of Existing Bridge.
RpC = Replacement of culvert, etc., by a new bridge.
Rd = Redecking of existing bridge.
RC = Repair or Reconstruction.



-63-
Table 3.5
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Vehicles & Equipment for Materials Testing,
and for TCC, PMC and Highway Planning Section, DOH
$ '000
1. Additional field testing equipment and vehicles
for regi_.m.al and mobile laboratories                    201,300
2. Equipment for Central Laboratory:
i)  Soils testing equipment                              20,000
ii)  Bitumen equipment                                    38,000
iii)  Concrete laboratory                                  23,500
3. Coring and sampling drill                                      17,500
Consumable spares                                            20,000
4. Hiscellaneous vehicLes and equipment for TCC
and Highway Planning Section, DOH                         334,000
Base Cost                 654,300
Contingencies             195,400
Total :                    US$ 849,700



-64-
Table 3.6
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Workshop Equipment
I.  For Upgrading 9 Regional Workshops                                   $ '000
L. Small Tools and Equipment, including:
Injector testers, Engine stands, Valve grinders, Puller sets,
Hydraulic: Rams various, System tester, Honers, Portable
floor Lift, Chain blocks, etc., Parts cleaners, Compression
tester, Measuring tools, Brake repair tools, Electric testing
instruments, Hand tools, Tire repair tools,
Total Per Workshop   US$ 35,000
Total for Nine Regional Workshops:                         315
II. Special Equipment for Central Workshop and
for 9 Regional Workshops
Machine tools: 7 lathes, 2 radial drills, 11 grinders
9 Welding sets
7 Air compressors
3 H.P. washers
- Stores and office equipment                                             350
III. Field Equipment and Vehicles for Workshop Service
9  1-1/2 ton Pickups
9  Stationary lubrication units
2  Fuel tankers
2  Portable weighbridges
2  Breakdown vehicle                                                       150
US$   448
Sub-total :                 815
Spares, Consumable Items, etc., 23%, say        185
US$ 1,000
Total Base Cost US$1 million



SRI LAWK
SECOND "ADS FlOACT7
Table 1. ALL CWONKN7I
hetaIISd Cost labla
Iroakdovw, of totals unt. Codt                     Parwtns
[410 Costs                    Totals 3Includins ContL"ineces                  totals Includlns Coilnt ninmwe                              itUS9 '00)                     -..........
(RUPEES Million)                         (9111(5 Killion)                                   (1115 '0)                                      ---------------*-------   Phi.
85186 86/87 SI/se 88/9 89/90 Toatl  35186 86/87 87/88 8889 89/90 Total             85/86   86/87    87/A88/8?9 89/90  Total    For, Exch.    1axnsi              Taxes    Total    Rat.  Exch. Tu Rat.
1. INMSTIENI COSTS
A. ROAD RES2FACIMG                     150.5 248.5 19.3,       -     - 552,   141.3 349.3 298.0        -          188.5  5,332.1  13,180.2 11.43,6        -      -29,755.9    13,03.          11,394.2  5,058.5 29,755.9        .10.47        0.17
C. 5*11CE REPAIRS                       33.4  66.8  60.1   6.7       - 167.0   42.7  93.9  92,7  11.3         -   240.6  1.612.7  3,144.0  3.419.7 424.6            9,080.0      4.400.0       3,862.8    817.2  9.080,0    o.1  0.51         0.0?
C. SUPERYISIOM                           8,0   8.0   8.0   8.0           3I.8   10.4  11.6  12.7  13.9        -    48.6    393.0    436.1    480.2 525.2         -  5,35.3         421.1       i1340.8      73.4  1.33.5.3    0.1  0.25       0.04               A
D. EGJIPIIENT
1. MISCELLANEWS                       4.9   3.3      -                0  82    5.8   4.2     -      -           10.1    220.7    160.2                 -     -     380.?        233.7          29.0    118.1    380,9   :.os  0462        0.31
2. TESTING                            4.1   1.4      -      -     - 5.6    4.9   1.9         -            -       ..8    184.4     70.5         -            -     254.?        154.5          19.4      79.0    254,9   C*.05  0.62       0.31
3.   AXSS                            19.6   6,?      -     -         26,5   23.3   8.9       -      -     -     32.2    878,1    333.8          -      -     -1,213.9           745.3          92.3    376.3  1.213.9 ~,V   0.62          0.31
Su.tlotal EQUIPI'ENJ                    28.7  11.6      -      -     -40,3   34.0  15.0          -     -      -    4.0  1*283.2    566.5            -     -      -     ,84.      1,135,6         140.7    573.4  1,849.7
E. tRAINiNG AMD ADVJICE
1. PON                               6.7   6.7       -     -      -13.4    7,9   8.2         -      -           16U.6    21?.?    326,8         -            -     626.7       512.9           88.7     25.1    626.7   3."  0.83         0.04
2. IEC                                4.8   4.8      -      -     -   9.5    5.7r  a.2       -      -           15.9    214.2    231.4          -      -     -    447.6         366.4          63.3      17.9    447.6   ).0~5  0.83g    0.044
Sub-lotal TRMINING MT, ADICC            11.4  15.4             -     -  22,9   13.6  14.8        -     -      -    28.5    514.1    560.2          -      -      -1.074,3          879.3         152,0      43.0  1,074.3
total IWVESIIEMT COSTS                   191.9 346,3 261.3  14.6       - 014.?  242.1 484.6 403.4  25.2         - W55.3  9,535'.9 18,27.0 55222,  941.8            -43,595.1    20.139.1        16800,5  6,565.5 43,595.1
13.33 .u3 ... 3:33               ..         .. X:::: 3:s _:_-      :::  s..... ......  3338.858  3..88.883 Bases Saffa Szauuet.  .ru.hazn.9  *33:53:8s...as 83..... ....lf w-
Februjrv '8. 1985 09:43



-66-
Table 3.8
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
IBRD Fiscal Year & Calendar Year              Cumulative Disbursement at
Quarter Ending                           end of Quarter US$ 000
FY 86      September 1985                                   240
December 1985                                   480
March 1986                                    1,200
June 1986                                     1,680
FY 87      September 1986                                 2,640
December 1986                                 3,360
March 1987                                    4,320
June 1987                                     5,280
FY 88      September 1987                                 6,480
December 1987                                 7,680
March 1988                                    8,880
June 1988                                    10,080
FY 89      September 1988                                11,280
December 1988                                12,480
March 1989                                   13,680
June 1989                                    14,880
FY 90      September 1989                                16,080
December 1989                                17,040
March 1990                                   18,000
June 1990                                    18,960
FY 91      September 1990                                19,680
December 1990                                20,400
March 1991                                   21,120
June 1991                                    21,840
FY 92      September 1991                                22,320
December 1991                                22,800
March 1992                                   23,160
June 1992                                    23,520
FY 93      September 1992                                23,760
December 1992                                24,000
The project is expected to be completed by June 1992 and the
loan to be closed on December 31, 1992.
l1 Based on the South Asia Transportation Disbursement Profile.



-67-
Table 4.1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST)
Road Sections                    Traffic Volume (ADT) 1/  Economic Rate of Return 2/
1984                          X
1.  Colombo-Horana Road                 4,002                       313.1
(at Piliyandala)
2.  Rotte-Bope Road                     2,884                         69.5
3. Kalugamawa-Nadampa                   1,502                        89.4
4.  Campaha-Minawanda                   1,275                         31.1
5.  Kelaniya-Biyagama                   1,240                         62.3
6.  Horana-Ratnapura                    1,054                         26.1
7. Negombo-Giriulla Road                1,030                        25.0
8. Campaha-Ja Ela                         842                        21.0
11 August 1984.
21 @ 10% discount rate.



-68-
Table 4.2
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Asphalt Concrete Overlay (AC)
Road Sections                Traffic Volume (ADT) 1/  Economic Rate of Return 2/
1984                          Z
1. Getambe-Rajopanaramaya                   8,082                        150.0
(on Colombo-Kandy Road)
2. Kadawata-Campaha                         7,785                        L45.0
(on Colombo-Kandy Road)
3. Colombo-Kandy Road                       6,308                        117.1
(approach road to the Railway
station)
4. Gampaha-Nittembawa                       5,819                        108.0
(on Colombo-Kandy Road)
5. Gampaha-Miriswatta                       4,633                        143.9
6. Gampaha-Yakkala                          3,655                         59.0
7. Bentota-Ambalangoda                      3,164                         51.0
(on Colombo-Galle Road)
8. Kurunegala-Huduhumpola                   2,693                         37.9
(outskirts of Kurunegala)
9. Kandy-Werellagama                        2,317                         32.8
10. Weligama-Katara                          1,447                         28.0
1/ August 1984.
2/ At 10Z discount rate.



SRI IANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Colombo-Galle Road (including Kalutara Bridge)
(In million rupees)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997
Benefits
Total           -     -      32.3   64.6   67.8   71.2   74.8   78.5   82.5   86.6   90.9   95.5  100.2
Costs
Total         26.5   44.1   53.0   52.9    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0               aX
NET BENEFITS  -26.5  -44.1  -20.7   11.7   67.4   70.8   74.4   78.1   82.1   82.6   86.9   91.5   96.2
ERR = 40.1%



-70-
Table 4.4
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROAD-  iROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Colombo-Calle Road (including Kalutara Bridge)
NPV as a Z
Present        of Present        Economic
Value at        Cost at          Rate of
Test Cases    Test Case Variations    OCC 1/ of 10%  OCC 1/ of 1OZ   Return
Base Case                                  242.5          169.7%          40.1Z
Test Case I   BTotal       Up    15%       221.0          134.5%          34.7%
Test Case 2   CTotal       Down  15%       184.7          129.2%          33.8Z
Test Case 3   BTotal       Up    15%       300.3          210.1%          46.1%
Test Case 4   BTotal       Down  15%
CTotal      Up    15%       163.2           99.3Z          29.0%
Switching Values at 10%
Appraisal        Switching       Percentage
Stream               Value            Value           Change
B.Total                385.4            142.9           -62.9%
C.Total                142.9            385.4           169.7%
NPV Q 10% = 242.5
ERR       = 40.1%
1/ Opportunity cost of capital.



SRI LANKA
UECOM ROAIDS PROJCT
OrnIation of the Dep1met d Hwoyc
Seey         |
Decu d of
De~~~AAyD  utvkwk
tt'btSn lcg)             n    )                                             l               .  I               .    I(Cent'd Zau)  Eaw*g__  A  Ji1
5~ ~~~0.                 CN.1 5 <t             C2I. (              CISW 9SdErre         1 6S1                Od I 6
_ an Erl eg (Ca) Ehal tl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  P.   I P  C. )ld.ftb
ftmd,&                                                                      -4
Cor.1ructlhofl
AOl- &  WEIvI r-) I?            I I
I  1 1 , I I I ',, I I I IkAm                                                                                                                         1
N~~~~~~cA. Eng.rig 
I~ ~ ~ ccut .w I 
I   l  1) EOff                                                                           Pi
Paonis 1  h)



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
I        Calendar Year              1   1985    1   1986    1   1987    1  1988         1   1989    1   1990    1
---------------. --                  -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -I -- -- -    - -- -- - -    -- -- - --- -
1. Board Presentation             i      t                  I            I            I            !
12.  Loan Effective                 I       t   I
1 3.  Equipment Ordered under       I            I            I            I            I            I            I
I      Credit 900-CE Delivered      L            I            I            I            I            I            I
I                                   1,           I            I            IIII
14. Road Works by Contract          l* -mml
1 5.  Bridge Works by Contract      l*      CA*-I    CA-.    mC-A CA -                                            I
I                       I                        I                  I            I            I                   I 
16.  Bridge Works by Force Account |                                                           ..- ---  __L1 
I                                   I'                                                               I            I
I 7.  Technical Assistance              *   CA-I              I               _ -  -I                I
I 8.  EquipmenL Procurement:        I            I            I
I       Laboratory                  I    *   CAI              I            I            I            I            I
I       Workshop                    I    *   CAI                    I            I            I                   I
I       Miscellaneous               I            1*
*     -  Bids Invited
CA    a Contract Awarded
_-v4  - Delivery or Execution



SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Roads to be Rehabilitated:
- |   Asph-it Concrete Oveiloy
/ - - -Surface Dressing
Bridges to 6e Rehabilitated:
/-   By Contract
.-_   By Force Account
9Q00            \%            }8                                                                                                                                              900'-
Mnnlnr    r                              1/                                                                       Roads:
-A Grade
___ = B Grade
n, _vun iyo                                                              Selected Minor Roads
-,---t- Railroads
Irinc m_  /    irinulee   159  National Capitol
OD  District Capitals
/   j RuJmbc*a    /           /0g                                     o   Other Towns
District Boundaries
-  -  International Boundaries
Arijmi6elu/
Knlpt,yu 0                 0q
o,rade,L ,j,d*ol,,
tI '0    a-/                                                               ralio "" X                            \                                                                I
tl   \   t  t       gDsinXbulla                                  Volochehenol 01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sttclo
Ill,.,,>/\o$1                                /       j                                                   g            NtlsclllonQI
Milwrrrssa-(llllt ~ ~ ~ a  ;      e---'''  y  /1'                                                        J\



)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 ,'  .-
Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,
q.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



