Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Repo No. P-399!
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INZERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$24.0 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
March 28, 1985
This docmen bhs a ruaflictd irbuteo and may be use by recients dny in the prformace of
I  hir offkial dud. Its cotes my so ohrwibe be dielu witwht Wold Bak aundbhSoltm.



CURRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    *   Sri Lankan Rupee
US$1.00      =   SL Rs 26.5
SL Re 1.00   =   US$0.04
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGR     -  Ceylon Government Railways
DOH     -  Department of Highways
MOH     -  Ministry of Highways
MOT     -  Ministry of Transport
PMC     -  Project Management Cell
RDA     -  Road Development Authority
RTB     -  Regional Transport Board
SLCTB   -  Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TCC     -  Transport Coordinating Cc..mittee
TFA     -  Technical and Financial Audit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:              US$24.0 million
Terms:               Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate
Project              The project seeks to improve periodic maintenance of
Description:       the trunk road network, including bridges, and to
strengthen the institutions concerned with transport
infrastructure by providing for rehabilitation of about
570 kilometers of roads and for repair, replacement, or
widening of about 30 bridges. The project also provides
for equipment to workshops and quality-control labora-
tories, training in bitumen emulsion technology and
equipment fleet management, assistance with project
execution, and technical assistance to the Transport
Coordinating Committee, within the Ministry of
Transport. The main project benefit would be the direct
savings to highway users arising from reduced vehicle
operating costs, fever bridge closings, improved
periodic maintenance, and improved transport planning
and management. Principal risks, relating to institu-
tional capability and quality of workmanship, would be
minimized by providing adequate levels of technical
assistance and training.
.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be_disclosed without World Dank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: /a                                      Local   Foreign   Total
…---US$ M4illio…---
Road Repairs                       11.0      9.8      20.8
Bridge Repairs                      3.1      3.2       6.3
Supervision.                        0.9      0.3       1.2
Equipment                           0.6      0.9       1.5
Technical Assistance and
.Training                        0.2       0.7       0.9
Base Cost                       15.8      14.9      30.7
Physical Contingencies              1.5      1.4       2.9
Price Contingencies                 6.2      3.8      10.0
Total Cost                      23.5      20.1      43.6
Financing Plan:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
--- -US$ Hillion---
Covernment                         19.6       -       19.6
IBRD                                3.9     20.1      24.0
Total                            23.5      20.1      43.6
Estimated
Disbursements:      IBRD FY      FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
- -------US$ M4illion--…---             -
Annual        1.7   3.6   4.8   4.8   4.1   2.8   1.7   0.5
Cumulative   1.7   5.3  10.1  14.9  19.0  21.8  23.5  24.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          82 percent
Appraisal
Report:             No. 5345-CE, dated March 13, 1985
_MHap:                IBRD 18532
/a Includes taxes and duties of US$6.1 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
-                                 FOR A SECOND ROADS PROJECT
I
E .     1.      I submit the following report and recomnendation on a prcposed loan
to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the equivalent of
US$24.0 million to help finance a Second Roads Project.  The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable inter-
est rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Recent Economic
Developments, Prospects and Policies" (Report No. 5038-CE dated May 4, 1984),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1984.  Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth as a result of the economic liberalization of
1977 and a significant increase in foreign assistance. Before 1977, Sri
*          Lanka's growth performance had been below the country's needs and potential.
Although in the 1960s the annual GDP growth of 4.4 percent was above the
average for low-income countries, between 1970 and 1977 it slackened to 2.9
percent annually, which was just below the average for low-income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, erod-
ing even these modest gains. The slowdown in economic growth in 1970-77 was
the result of a combination of factors, including inadequate investment, poor
management of the economy, and a policy environment not conducive to growth
and investment. These difficulties were compounded by poor weather in some
years and by a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and petroleum over the
_        period.
*        4.      In contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's social
_        achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.  With
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for a Fourth Tree Crops Project for Sri Lanka (Report No. P-3972-CE),
that was approved by the Executive Directors on March 21, 1985.



-2-
respect to the most important social indicators--life expectancy, literacy,
infant mortality, birth rate, nutrition levels--Sri Lanka ranks significantly
higher than other countries at the same per capita income level.
Improvements in the quality of life, particularly the rise in health
standards, the spread of education, and the availatility of subsidized food,
have been important factors in t,he decline in mortality. Also, the increas-
ing age at marriage, the spread of femaLe education and employment, and a
family planning program contributed to a sharp decline in fertility. As a
consequence, population growth, net of migration, dropped steadily, from 2.7
percent annually in 1953-63 to 2.2 percent annually in 1963-71, and to 1.7
percent annually in 1971-81.
5.      However, the Government largely financed both its investment and
social expenditures by extracting the surpluses yielded by the three major
tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconuts), which traditionally have furnished
easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. However, these surpluses began
to decline in the late 1960s, as government export tax policies discriminated
against tree crops and export unit prices weakened. With growth in other
productive sectors declining d'Aring 1970-77, budgetary resources available
for social programs were squetzed between inelastic revenues and rapid
inflation. As a consequence, expenditures for social services other than the
food subsidy declined as a proportion of total current expenditures and of
GDP, thus threatening the gains in health and education. In short, the
economy could no longer generate the resources needed to sustain a large
program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the size of that program reduced
the scope for policy makers to shift resources to other development
activities.
6.      In 1977, the Government, in consultation with the IMF, introduced a
package of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role
for the private sector. These policies were designed to: (a) reduce govern-
ment intervention in commodity markets, (b) reduce government consumption
subsidies to assist in restoring producer incentives and public savings, and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone.
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
consequences of this policy reform package were: (a) a decLine in the cost
of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10 percent of GDP in 1977 to
about 3 percent by 1981; and (b) periodic increase in the domestic support
price for paddy (which brought it into line with world prices) that spurred a
highly positive response from paddy producers.
7.      These policy reforms were introduced alnng with an ambitious public
investment program that was made possible by the increased avaiLability of
domestic and foreign resources. As the Government began to tackle long
overdue investments, its capital expenditure as a share of GDP jumped from 6
percent in 1977 to an average of 13 percent in 1978 and 1979 and a peak of
19 percent in 1980, but subsequently declined to an average of 14 percent
during 1981-83. The Government's investment pLan centered on three major
initiatives: (a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, the Largest muLtipurpose river basin deveLopment program
ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free
trade zone to attract foreign investors Located north of Colombo near the
international airport; and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban



-3-
renewal program focusing mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, including
the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
8.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the CDP growth rate during 1977-80 to
an annual average of 6.8 percent, which then declined to 5.3 percent in
1980-83. The activities responsible for most of this increased growth were
production of paddy, export of garments, and services. The real growth rate
of paddy production since 1977, for example, has averaged 5.7 percent a year
with the result that rice imports declined from an average 33 percent of
total rice consumption in 1970-77 to only 12 percent in 1978-83.
Manufactured garment exports, which have increased from USSl2 million in 1977
to US$197 million in 1983, raised their share of non-petroleum manufactured
exports from 41 percent in 1977 to 76 percent in 1983. Tourist arrivals
increased from 153,665 in 1977 to 407,230 in 1982, with a setback to 337,342
in 1983 due to ethnic disturbances.
9.      Despite these advances, some of the basic structural weaknesses
within the economy have not been addressed. Among the directly productive
activities, three subsectors have continued to perform poorly, namely tree
crops, public manufacturing enterprises, and non-traditional exports. The
volume of output from the centrally important export-oriented tree crops
subsector has continued to decline or stagnate. Public manufacturing
enterprises, which account for approximately 40 percent of the value added in
the non-petroleum manufacturing sector, utilize resources inefficiently,
thereby reducing the overall growth rate in manufacturing. In addition, the
real growth of non-traditional exports, other than garments, has been fairly
low and erratic. Underlying the poor performance of these subsectors are two
principal factors: poor management of pubLicly-owned enterprises, and an
overall incentive framework characterized by high and uneven levels of effec-
tive protection with a general bias against export activities. Moreover, the
incentive to invest in the production of traded commodities has been reduced
in favor of non-traded goods, as the exchange rate has not been fuLly
adjusted in a systematic way since 1977 so as to compensate for the high
levels of domestic inflation.
10.     Another principal source of financial instability, particularLy in
recent years, has been the Government's budgetary policy. As a share of CDP,
budgetary spending increased from 23 percent in 1977 to a record 43 percent
in 1980, subsequently declining to a still high 32 percent in 1983.  Although
much of this increased expenditure was accompanied initially by a correspond-
ing inflow of foreign concessionary capital linked to the public investment
program, the need to resort to domestic or commercial foreign financing
increased. In addition, the Government's efforts to mobilize additional
domestic resources fell short of requirements. Due to falling volumes and
prices in the tree crops subsector and an insufficient effort to widen the
tax base beyond traditional sources, the Government increasingly relied on ad
hoc taxation measures to maintain existing revenue-levels. The rapid growth
in spending coupled with increased inflows of foreign savings and a weak
domestic revenue effort resulted in large budget deficits, which peaked at
the equivalent of 23 percent of GDP in 1980 and still amounted to 15 percent
of GDP in 1983. In response to increasing domestic deficits, the Government
has squeezed current spending with negative and positive repercussions. On
the positive side, the reduction in subsidies is welcome, but on the negative
side, the limits placed on both public sector salaries and operation and



-4-
maintenance expenditure are beginning to impose significant costs on the
economy in terms of recruitment/performance in the public sector and the
efficient use of the existing publicly owned capital stock. Even so, savings
on the budgetary current account have remained negative since 1979. In
summary, despite considerable donor support for the country's development
programs during 1981-83 (equivalent to 7.3 percent of GDP), the high level
of public expenditure has meant -that only 45 percent of the overall deficit
was financed by concessionary flows, with about 10 percent being covered by
foreign commercial borrowing and the remaining 45 percent through domestic
borrowing.
11.     The rapid expansion in investment and general economic activity has
been reflected vividly in the balance of payments. Between 1977 and 1980,
import volumes grew at an average annual rate of 18.8 percent--imported
investment goods increased from US$83 million to US$493 million, while inter-
mediate goods and petroleum imports tripled in current prices. As a result
of this fairly broad-based expansion, merchandise imports as a share of GDP
increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51 percent in 1980. Export volumes,
however, expanded at a much lover rate (an average annual growth rate of
4.7 percent between 1977 and 1980) and the decline in tree crop export
volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports among new firms estab-
lished in the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchandise exports
as a share of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26 percent in
1980. These diverse trends in the volume of trade were accompanied by a 26
percent deterioration in the terms of trade over the same period. Rapid
growth in tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad failed to
offset this deterioration in the trade account, and the current account
balance deteriorated from a positive 2.4 percent of GDP in 1977 to a record
19.8 percent deficit in 1980. Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than
offset by increased net aid disbursements, even to the extent that Sri Lanka
could continue to add to net international reserves. Yet, in 1980 the situa-
tion changed, international reserves fell by US$220 million, and the pubLic
sector began to increase its use of commercial financing.
12.     Since 1980, the external deficit has mirrored the erratic movements
of the budget deficit. Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends
would result in serious financial instabiLity, the Government began, in 1981,
to take corrective measures. The measures agreed upon, in consultation with
the IMF, included tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in
government spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate.  rhe
economy began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (the current account
deficit in the balance of payments had declined to 13.7 percent of CDP and
the budgetary deficit to 15.6 percent), but in 1982 the political resolve to
continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened, largely because of the
presidential elections and a subsequent referendum to extend the life of
Parliament. As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased
in 1982 (to 15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth
rate declined to 5.1 percent (the lowest since 1977). Although policy
measures did contribute to the decline (to 11.4 percent of GDP) in the cur-
rent account deficit in the balance of payments in 1983, the primary factor
was the estimated 14 percent improvement in the terms of trade. By the end
of 1983, net international reserves were slightly negative, gross official
reserves were equal to about two months of imports, and the debt service
ratio continued to increase (para. 16). In addition, as a resuLt of the
budgetary deficit and some movement in the exchange rate, inflation during



-5-
that year accelerated to an average 14 percent and the GDP growth rate fell
to 4.9 percent.
13.     Although an improvement in the 1983-84 terms of trade is bringing
some relief to the economy, the need for basic structural change has not
diminished, particularly in theZtree crops and manufacturing subsectors. One
of the foremost objectives of government policy should be to restructure the
economy toward exports rather than producing for the very limited domestic
market.  Basically what is needed is a more neutral incentive framework that
would permit the full diversity of Sri Lanka's particular comparative
advantage to develop. In the short run, however, such a policy package would
have to be supplemented by other measures because, first, the capacity of the
economy to respond to a changed set of incentives may be limited and, second,
the non-policy-related-constraints on economic growth (such as the basic
infrastructure and imperfect credit markets) will continue to require the
careful attention of Government.
14.     Although an uncertain sociopolitical situation constrains the
Government from adopting a comprehensive economic policy package, recent
measures demonstrate Government's awareness of medium-term problems and its
willingness to implement some required reforms. For example, in the November
1984 budget the Covernment moderately reduced the overall tax burden on tree
crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive reform
package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has improved
incentives for producers throughout the subsector. The budget also intro-
duced tariff changes based on recommendations made in the final report of the
Presidential Tariff Commission on trade taxes. Although important activities
were omitted from these reforms, the general thrust of the changes is towards
a more neutral framework. The Cabinet has also laid down criteria for
selecting projects in future public capital budgets--a measure that, if
implemented, should redirect public investment into those areas where it
could be most efficiently used. In light of the rapid build-up of the
country's capital stock since 1977, the highest return to public investment
probably would come from complementary investments in existing
infrastructure. and in a few new projects that are appropriate in long-
gestating activities (such as, power). However, on the negative side, the
1984 budget also provided a wide range of tax concessions that wiLl serve to
reduce either the budget deficit or level of inflation. The currently high
tea price has enabled the Government to implement a basically expansionary
budget while containing its budget deficit below 10 percent of GDP.  Thus,
in the medium term, difficult issues related to changing the tax base and
the overaLl incentive framework still need to be addressed if the economy is
to undergo the type of structural change necessary for sustained growth.
15.     The incernational aid community has responded enthusiastically to
the Government's recent development efforts by stepping up project aid, in
recognition of the Government's efforts to increase such investment, par-
ticularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program.  The overall level of aid
commitments increased from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$814 million
in 1981, equivalent to US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly
so that the aid pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the
end of 1981. In 1982-83 public capital spending had to be curtailed, both
because of implementation and domestic financial constraints, with the result
that commitments declined to US$550 million in 1982 and US$370 million in
1983, halting further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have



-6-
increased steadily, from US$200 milLion in 1977 to US$450 million in 1983, or
nearly US$30 per capita. The slow growth of disbursements relative to com-
mitments through 1981 can be explained LargeLy by two factors: the rapid
acceleration in aid commitments and the relative shift over time from food
and commodity aid to slower-disbursing project aid.  Continued high levels of
aid will depend upon donors' wilingness to finance a sizable portion of
local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects, where
needed, and to increase non-project aid. To maintain donor confidence in its
economic policies and management, the Government wilL have to strengthen its
domestic resource mobilization effort and continue to  restrain government
*expenditures as long as the budgetary situation remains tight.  Local cost
financing in support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not
only provide valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supple-
ment foreign exchange resources needed to support the balance of payments.
16.     At the end of 1983, external public debt outstanding and disbursed
stood at an estimated US$2.2 billion, which was about 46 percent of GDP.
Although a greater part of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 helped to push the debt service ratio
(excluding IMF charges and repurchases) up from 10.1 percent in 1982 to
11.9 percent in 1983. Even though the record tea prices in recent months
have enabled Sri Lanka to reduce its dependence on commercial financing in
the near term, any deterioration in the terms of trade would rapidly reverse
the situation.  This threat to the economy is partly offset, however, by the
Government's recent efforts to contain the budget deficit and to implement
policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import substitu-
tion activities. If progress along these lines continues, the current
account deficit in the balance of payments should decline to approximately
7 percent of GDP toward the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio,
after temporarily rising to almost 17 percent because of existing debt repay-
ment commitments, should drop below 15 percent in 1990.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in L954, the World
Bank has approved 10 Loans totaling US$127.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 37 credits totaling US$712.6 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 52 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 23 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 15 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materiaLs for industry), water supply, construction industry,
telecommunications, and small and medium industries. Eight loans and 13
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of
World Bank Group operations as of September 30, 1984.
18.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$16.74 million equivalent in loans. Investments
have been made so far in two textiles industries, one polypropylene bag
industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two IFC lines of
credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon
for term Loans to medium-sized industries.



-7-
19.     The World Bank's current strategy is primarily to assist Sri Lanka
in reaching a more sustainable balance-of-payments position in the medium
term through export promotion and import substitution in viable economic
activities. In order to achieve this, the lending strategy includes support
to policy changes in a number of macroeconomic areas: investment priorities,
the incentive framework, coordination of economic policies and programs,
operational and maintenance expeAditures and cost recovery. Projects cur-
rently under preparation include a fourth tree crops project and second dairy
development project.
20.     Within the above framework, the World Bank lending program con-
centrates resources on productive sectors, energy, and infrastructure.
Within agriculture, the strategy gives the highest priority in the vital tree
crbps subsector. The objective is to channel resources into an activity in
which Sri Lanka has a comparative advantage so as to stabilize the subsector
in the short term and to promote sustainable export growth in the medium
term. Whether in the irrigation, rural development or tree crops subsectors,
the strategy focuses on rehabilitating the existing capital base, increasing
its utilization capacity, and to ensure better operation and maintenance in
the future.
21.     The Covernment's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure is
well placed and needed to support expanded economic activity, particularly in
the private sector. Major elements of the lending program would be directed
at helping the energy needs of the economy and easing transport bottlenecks.
The World Bank has provided financing to a number of power projects for
generation, transmission and distribution. The future program would focus on
energy conservation through both required investments and policy measures.
The old and inefficient power distribution system would be rehabilitated to
reduce system losses; small but significant improvements in energy conserva-
tion would be undertaken in large energy consuming industrial/commercial
units; and a study, to be completed shortly, would recommend measures to
improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large consumer of
comercial energy in Sri Lanka. All of these activities would be supported
through policy measures and institutional development. Support to the
transport sector would continue with rehabiLitation of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.
22.     The World Bank has provided financing for a broad range of large-,
medium- and smaLl-scale industrial enterprises, in the private sector,
through support of development finance companies. Export development would
primarily focus on this assistance which has also included support to improv-
ing the performance of private enterprises. Future Lending in the sector
would continue to emphasize this focus.
23.     Institutional capabilities, in both the planning and the implementa-
tion areas, have been constrained with the recent expansion of public
investment. Past World Bank projects have included an institution building
component. In addition to this project, the fucure strategy would focus more
on issues such as human resource development, business and industrial
management, and public administration. Public administration constraints
which affect the performance of all sectors would be identified and addressed
directly through the lending program.



-8-
24.     The need for a substantial transfer of resources to Sri Lanka has
been a recurrent theme of WorLd Bank economic reporting, both to offset the
deterioration in the world trade environment and to support a high and
sustained growth rate. Despite Government's increased domestic resource
mobilization effort in the recent past, World Bank projects in Sri Lanka have
included sector financing of lo,cal expenditures. The WorLd Bank strategic
focus on agriculture, rehabilitation rather than new infrastructure, institu-
tional development means that the foreign exchange component of projects
tends to be small.  Also, the Government's budgetary situation continues to
be tight as increased operation and maintenance requirements make demands on
domestic resources.
25.     The World Bank, as of the end of 1983, accounted for 10.7 percent
tIBRD, 1.6 percent; IDA, 9.1 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding
and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and long-term debt.
The projected World Bank's share in total existing external debt outstanding
and disbursed will increase to 17 percent by 1985 (with IBRD's share declin-
ing to 1.3 percent). The IBRD and IDA portions of debt service are expected
to decline to about 4 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.     The transport system of Sri Lanka consists of about 25,000 kilometers
(km) of roads (about 9,000 km surfaced) maintained by the Department of
Highways (DOH) and some 43,000 km maintained by local authorities; about
1,450 km of railways; one major and two minor ports; and seven airports, only
one of which handles international traffic. Several government agencies
provide transport services along with an increasing number of private road-
passenger and freight operators. The Ceylon Government Railways (CGR)
provides inland passenger and freight services, and the Sri Lanka Central
Transport Board (SLCTB) and nine regional transport boards (RTBs)-public
corporations--ooerate bus services islandwide.
Highway_and Road Transport
27.     Road transport, currently accounting for about 90 percent of freight
traffic and d2 percent of passenger traffic, plays an important role in the
economy of Sti Lanka. Road passenger transporc was the monopoly of SLCTB and
*         the RTBs uncii 1979, when private passenger transport was aLlowed.  Since
then the private sector has been taking an increasing share of the market.
Road-freighc and passenger transport are unregulated, and prices respond to
supply and demand. The majority of the trucking fleet is privately owned,
and small operators predominate. Since 1977, new vehicle registrations have
increased sharply, and the number of active fleet vehicles had almost doubled
by 1982.
28.     The SLCTB and the RTBs own and operate about 8,000 buses.  Prior to
1981, ineffective management led to increasing losses requiring a government
subsidy for operations. Since 1981, however, management has improved and has
instituted devices to improve operations and financiaL management. There has
been a tenfold increase in the privately operated bus fleet since 1978.
Although fares were initially higher than those of the RTBs, the public was
prepared to pay extra for a generally higher standard of comfort and



-9-
reliability; however, increasing competition has brought fares in line with
those of the RTBs.
Railways
29.     Railways are operated bX CGR as a government department under the
Ministry of Transport (MOT).  Total track length is 1,450 km, most of which
is broad-guage single track and includes more than 1,000 steel bridges. A
major track extension is under construction to serve the Mahaweli area.
Freight traffic fluctuates by year and is now at its 1977 level of 223 mil-
lion ton/km. Passenger traffic by rail has declined slowly over the years to
about 13 percent of total passenger movement, and now stands at 4.1 billion
passengers/km. The CGR's financial situation is unhealthy, with operating
expenditure growing much faster than revenue. In 1983, goverr.ient subsidies
to CGR were SL Rs 283 million.
Ports
30.     The Sri Lanka Port Authority, established in 1979, is responsible for
all port management and operations. The Port Authority has streamlined port
operations and now efficiently handles increasing traffic at Colombo port.
Container traffic has increased from 7,500 twenty-foot equivalent units
(teu), the standard container unit in international trade, in 1978, to over
100,000 teus in 1982. The total volume of imports and exports handled by the
Port Authority is now about 5.6 million tons.
Shipping and Air Transport
31.     Sri Lanka's merchant fleet is run by the government-owned Ceylon
Shipping Corporation and comprises eight general cargo vessels with a total
capacity of 86,800 dead-weight tons (dwt). In addition, it owns a 30,000
dwt-capacity tanker, which is used to import about one-quarter of the
country's crude oil requirement. Passenger traffic to and from Sri Lanka,
including significant tourist traffic, is primarily by air. The national
carrier, Air Lanka, established in 1979. offers international service in the
Asia region and to Europe. Since 1977. air passenger traffic has grown at a
rate of 35 percent a year, now amounting to more than one miLlion passenger
movements a year.
Transport Planning and Coordination
32.     There is little coordination among the various ministries responsible
for different transport modes. Highway planning, construction, and main-
tenance are under the purview of the Ministry of Highways. while railways are
the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, public road transport falls
under the Ministry of Transport Boards, and the privately-owned bus opera-
tions are controlled by the Ministry of Private Omnibus Transport. The
Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for shipping and port
operations, while air transport is under the control of the Ministry of
Defense. This dispersed organizational arrangement and highly fragmented
decision-making structure make coordinated transport sector pLanning and
formulation (and implementation) of sector policy reforms very difficult.
In order to address this institutional weakness and other sectoral issues
identified during the Bank's transport sector review in 1984, the Bank
proposed, and the Government agreed, to establish a Transport Coordinating



-10-
Committee (TCC) to study and analyze these issues and recommend appropriate
improvements. TCC is composed of high-level representatives of all transport
agencies, chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, and sup-
ported by the technical secretariat which was also established in 1984 at the
Bank's suggestion (para. 44). Under the project, technical assistance would
be provided to strengthen the wprk of TCC and its secretariat in analyzing
major institutional issues relacing to: (a) transport planning and
coordination; (b) financial viability and operational improvement of the
railways; (c) resource mobilization through user charges to meet future
maintenance funding requirements; and (d) the role of public bus operations.
The Highway Subsector
33.     The Highway Network.  Sri Lanka has a comparatively well-developed
and dense highway system that evolved during the last century to supply the
inland plantations and convey their products to port. Poor maintenance and
the recent growth of traffic have placed- a severe burden upon the highway
system, to the extent that many lengths of pavement urgently require
strengthening or reconstruction. A number of bridges are structurally
unsound or too narrow; highway design is below standard and -oadside develop-
ment has encroached on the right of way, making widening difficult. Recent
traffic counts showed average annual increases of 3-10 percent in traffic
volume on the main arteries.
34.     Administration of Highways.  Following dissolution of the Public
Works Department in 1978, the Department of Highways (DOH) became responsible
for the nation's road network. The Secretary of the Ministry of Highways and
Director of Highways, with administrative and specialist functions
respectively, preside over DOH's head office in Colombo and direct works
through 15 chief engineers supported by executive engineers and technical
officers. TechnicaL support is provided for planning, programming and
progress control, engineering services, bridges, and mechanical engineering.
Staff training is the cnncern of the Chief Engineer (Research and
Development) of DOH. Under the Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE),
central workshop at Angulana has been upgraded and nine regional workshops
have been set up. 1I The equipment and tooLs to be suppLied by the project
would enable che workshop to service maintenance equipment. Likewise, -he
road maintenance equipment procured under the first roads project has
improved the capacity of DOH to provide routine maintenance.
35.     Currently, DOH has difficulty retaining qualified staff because of
low salaries, poor working conditions, and lack of incentives. The
Government is considering major changes in the structure of road maintenance
institutions in order to induce a more entrepreneuriaL approach. :n 1981,
the Government created the Road Development Authority (RDA), which operates
outside the government bureaucratic framework and offers better employment
conditions. Under the first roads project, road rehabilitation/maintenance
actiuities were executed through force account, and bridge rehabilitation
works through contracts. While the quality of the bridge rehabilitation work
has been acceptable, the standard of road maintenance work has been
unsatisfactory. Based on this experience, the Government agreed to have
1/ The Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE) is re'erred to hereafter
as the "first roads project".    -



-11-~
future road rehabilitation works carried out mainly through contractors.
This should improve the quality of road 'works and increase the efficiency of
resources allocated to the highway subsector. Road maintenance contractors
had virtually disappeared due to non-availability of work. With the
Government's recent decision to use contractors under the project, the
response of contractors to prequalification for civil works bids has been
encouraging. Further, the Goverrwment is considering a return to the system
of road maintenance whereby individuals contract for maintenance work on
small segments on a payment-by-results basis.  This system would be managed
X       by RDA, acting initiaLly through the DOH network of offices and depots.
36.     Highways Planning, Finance, and Investment.  The Government began
to prepare an adequate road maintenance program with assistance provided
unaer the ongoing first roads project. The question of sufficient allocation
of funds for road maintenance was also discussed in the context of the macro-
economic dialogue on adequate operation and maintenance of capital assets.
The Covernment announced, earLy in 1984, that road maintenance would enjoy
high priority in resource allocation. It has made a strong commitment to
rehabilitate the existing network before embarking on any new investments;
at present, there are no major capital investments in roads under
construction. This was followed by the preparation of a five-year (1985-89)
road maintenance program, which was approved by the Cabinet. The program
provides for an increased alLocation for road maintenance during the project
period.
37.     The level of road maintenance allocations, funded in the recent past
by road-user charges, has been inadequate. In order for routine and periodic
maintenance to be sufficiently financed, road-user charges need to be sub-
stantially increased. For example, heavy vehicles, which cause the most
damage to pavement, do not contribute equitable amounts to revenue. A review
of road-user charges is among the topics being addressed by TCC in its first
commissioned study (para. 32); the findings of which would be available by
mid-1986.
38.     Training.  Under the first roads project, new construction methods,
materials, including bitumen emulsion, and equipment are being introduced to
DOH. The final delivery of maintenance equipment is scheduled to arrive by
mid-1985.  A 6,000-ton-per-year bitumen emulsion production plant is being
erected, and a crash training program, using imported emulsion, is in
;       progress.  Under the first roads project, a small training center was estab-
lished at Angulana and courses, mainly for the mechanical trades, were
designed for and taught to more than 200 trainees; some local instructors
gained training experience in the process. The Chief Engineer (Research and
Development) of DOH is now operating a comprehensive training program for all
skilled non-professional staff in a series of two-week to three-month-long
courses. With a view to addressing the long-term training needs of DOH
(possibly including privately contracted personnel), the proposed project
would include a full training-needs survey and a plan for an MOH. training
center.
World Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector
39.     A first Highway Project (Loan 569-CE/Credit 133-CE, totalling US$9.8
million) was approved in 1968 to improve maintenance and workshop facilities,
reconstruct bridges, and provide consultants for highway feasibility studies,



-12-
detailed engineering, and management and advisory services. It was canceled
later due to a shift in the Government's road development policy from
rehabilitation to new construction. The objectives of the Road Maintenance
Project (Credit 900-CE for US$16.5 million approved in 1979) included reduc-
ing a backlog of maintenance on roads and bridges, upgrading maintenance, and
laying a foundation for improved maintenance planning. There has been satis-
factory progress in all components except for the road rehabilitation
component, which was originally expected to be executed by contract. Since
no bids were received, much of the works were completed by force account.
Initially work was slow and its quality less than satisfactory.  Since early
1984, however, there have been encouraging developments: bitumen emulsion
has been introduced and some road work is being executed by local
contractors. A related ongoing project, the Construction Industry Project
(Credit 1130-CE for US$13.5 million approved in April 1981) provides for,
among other things, vocational training for DOH mechanics and other workshop
trades, equipment operators, and junior supervisory staff.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objective
40.     The project seeks to improve periodic maintenance of the trunk road
network including bridges, and to strengthen the institutions concerned with
transport infrastructure. Changes already instituted or underway in the
organizational structure of the highway subsector and the method of road
maintenance work supported under the project would lay the foundation for
improved maintenance in the future. The project would strengthen road main-
tenance planning, supervision, and execution of the maintenance program..
In addition, the project would assist in strengthening planning and coordina-
tion at a sectoral level and in addressing some key sectoral policy issues.
Project Description
41.     The project components comprise:
(a) road rehabilitation--a program of periodic maintenance consisting of
bituminous overlay on about 300 km of road and surface resealing on
about 270 km of road and the strengthening or rehabilitation of about
30 bridges;
.
(b) institutional strengthening--(i) equipment, technical assistance,
and training for MOH's highway planning and highway maintenance
departments; and (ii) transport sector studies under the TCC.
42.     The Overlay and Resealing Program.  About 300 km of roads (Map IBRD
18532) on ten trunk routes require preLiminary repairs, a regulating layer,
and provision of an asphalt concrete strengthening overlay. Sections have
been chosen on the basis of their visual condition, traffic volume, and
pavement roughness. A further 270 km of roads, which are structurally sound,
need reseaLing to renew the wearing surface and to prevent breakup of the
base layers.  Before either overlaying or resealing commences, potholes and
cracked areas would be repaired and pavement and roadside drainage put into
good order. Benkelman Beam surveys, which test the strength of the road



-13-
pavement, will be done ahead of overlaying and resealing to confirm the
visual inspection and to calculate the thickness required. The road
rehabilitation component is part of the Government's five-year maintenance
program (para. 36). The Government has agreed to release road maintenance
funds in accordance with levels agreed with the Bank (Schedule 5, para. 2,
draft Loan Agreement).
43.     Bridge Rehabilitation.  About 30 bridges are in urgent need of
repair, rehabilitation or replacement. Work on the two major bridges on the
Colombo-Galle Road at Kalutara would be accomplished through ICB, while work
on the remaining bridges would be done by either local contractors or force
account.
44.     Highway Planning and Transport Coordination.  During the first roads
project, a road inventory and traffic counts were completed for all roads
under DOH care. The Traffic and Planning Section of DOH is competently
staffed at senior levels and would process and analyze the road inventory and
other data as a starting point for a planned, preventive, periodic main-
tenance program. Traffic and pavement monitoring would continue throughout
the project, and the Traffic and Planning Section would undertake an axle-
load survey and various basic cost studies in close collaboration with the
TCC technical secretariat. The project would provide a drawing office and
field equipment for this work. Up to four overseas visits of about three
months each have been planned for the staff to gain experience in similar
work in other countries. Assistance to the TCC would comprise up to 40
staff-months of technical assistance and office and support equipment and
vehicles for its technical secretariat.  A timetable for the TCC work and
consultation procedures with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of
the TCC studies have been agreed (Schedule 5, para. 1, draft Loan
Agreement).
45.     Training.  The ongoing training for workshop trades, given by
Construction Industry Project (Credit 1130-CE) personnel, and courses for
junior management, being run by the Chief Engineer (Research and Development)
would be continued. The project would finance a package of services for
training in the operation of the bitumen emulsion plant, and in the storage,
distribution, and use of emulsion in road maintenance. A training planner
would also prepare a study of the MOH's long-term training needs, including
proposals for a permanent training center.
;
46.     Technical Assistance.  To assist the Government with project execu-
tion and to further the project's institutional objectives, a total of 76
staff months of technical assistance would be provided by management adviser,
a training planner, a highway engineering adviser, a mechanical engineering
adviser, and an emulsion training team. The advisers would work within DOH
with local counterparts, who would be fully responsible for the management of
the project in its final year.  Technical assistance from transport
economists and financial analysts wouLd be provided to the TCC for a total of
40 staff months. They would help strengthen the newly formed TCC technical
secretariat in studies of the four priority components of its proposed work
program.  Terms of reference and a draft work program covering TCC's first
two years of its operations have been agreed with the government.



-14-
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$43.6 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$20.1 million equivalent (46
percent), and taxes and duties of US$6.1 million equivalent. Cost estimates
are at September 1984 prices. *A quantity contingency of 5 percent has been
allowed on equipment, spares, and technical assistance, and 10 percent on the
works program.  For price increases, the following contingencies have been
allowed:  12 percent in 1985/86, 11 percent in 1986/87, 10 percent in
1987/88., 9 percent in 1988/89 and 7.5 percent in 1990 on local costs; and 8
percent in 1985/86 increasing to 9 percent in 1986/87-1988/89, and 6 percent
in 1990 on foreign costs. Cost estimates for plant and equipment are updated
.from bid prices received during 1983. Cost estimates for works are based on
experience gained from similar works during the first roads project and other
recent contract works. The cost of technical assistance is based on the
experience gained from the first roads project. The proposed loan of US$24.0
million equivalent would finance about 64 percent of total project costs (net
of taxes and duties), that is, all foreign costs (US$20.1 million) and about
US$3.9 million of local costs. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million
is recommended to cover expenditures incurred after April 1, 1985 for works
on roads and bridges (Schedule 1, para. 3, draft Loan Agreement).
Execution of the Project
48.     Execution of the project would be the responsibility of HOH, with MOT
handling the TCC component. A Project Management Cell (PMC) would be set up
in MOH to handle the letting and management of contracts and, through local
consulting firms, wouLd supervise construction and handle payments and claims
(Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement). The services of an experienced con-
tract manager would be made available to this cell, to help establish its
procedures and train staff in dealing with large construction firms. It is
expected that as the PMC gains experience in appropriate road maintenance
practices, more efficient and effective changes in various bureaucratic
procedures would be introduced. Contracts for more than half the road works
and the two Kalutara bridges are expected to be won by prequalified foreign
contractors or joint ventures. Discussions are taking place with the
Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka to encourage domestic
contractors to prequalify for road rehabilitation work in a joint-venture
association with experienced foreign firms or as subcontractors. This arran-
gement would be most effective in transferring management skills to the local
partner, and provide some guarantee of quality work in technically difficult
techniques such as surface dressing. Apart from normal supervision, the
Technical and Financial Audit (TFA). a recently created "watchdog" organiza-
tion responsible directly to the Minister of Highways, would verify that
testing is regularly and correctly carried out on all civil works and would
countersign all final payment certificates.



-15-
Procurement
49.     Proposed procurement arrangements are:
Procurement Method
Project Element                ;CB      LCB    Other              Total Cost
1.  Civil Works
Roadworks                  29.5       -        -                 29.5
(15.2)     -        -                (15.2)
Bridgeworks                 4.5      4.0     0.7                  9.2
(2.3)   (1.9)   (0.4)                (4.6)
Supervision                  -        -      2.0                  2.0
-       -      (2.0)               (2.0)
2.  Equipment                      1.2      -       0.6                 1.8
(0.8)            (0.3)               (1.1)
3.  Training and Technical          -       -       1.1
Assistance                   -        -      (1.1)               (1.1)
Total Project Cost           35.2      4.0      4.4                43.6
(of which IBRD)             (18.3)   (1.9)   (3.8)                (24.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses denote the IBRD contribution.
50.     Of a total cost of US$43.6 miLLion, goods and services valued at
US$35.2 million would be let through ICB, US$4.0 million under local proce-
dures and the remainder of US$4.4 million by force account, shortlist con-
sultation or international shopping. Major works have been divided into six
contracts, five road and one bridge, of about US$5 million each and would be
bid through ICB. Bids are expected from foreign and local firms and from
joint ventures. Where a contract is awarded to a local firm or to a joint
venture whose majority partner is a local firm, the 7.5 percent preference
would apply. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$400,000 equivalent
would be subject to prior review. The two Kalutara bridges (approximately
US$4.5 million) would form one contract; the remaining bridges would be done
by prequalified contractors selected through LCB or by force account.
Existing LCB procedures use a document agreed during the ongoing first roads
project.  Equipment and tools would be procured through ICB with a 15 percent
preference (or the import tariff, whichever is less) allowed on locally
manufactured items in accordance with the Rank's guidelines for procurement.
Preshipping inspection of equipment originating outside Sri Lanka would be
required. Items costing under US$50,000 equivalent, up tO a total of
US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures or by international shopping following price quotations from at
least three suppliers.  The technical assistance posts would be filled by
advertising the posts internationally in appropriate journals, or after
asking for proposals from a shortlist of consulting firms in accordance with
Bank guidelines on consultants. Consultants for supervision would be chosen
by inviting proposals from an agreed shortList of local or joint-venture
local and foreign consulting firms.



-16-
Project Special Account
51.     A Project Special Account (PSA), in US dollars, would be opened with
an initial deposit of US$2.0 million in a commercial bank to facilitate
financing of expenditures under Categories 1,2, and 3 of Schedule I to the
Loan Agreement.  The PSA would be established and operated according to
procedures acceptable to the BanI (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 6, draft Loan
Agreement).
Disbursements
52.     Disbursements from the loan would be made on the following basis:
(a) road and bridge work by contract or force account--52 percent of total
expenditures; (b) equipment, vehicles and tools-100 percent of foreign
expenditures, and 25 percent of local expenditures; and (c) technical assis-
tance and training--100 percent.
Environmental Considerations
53.     Since the proposed road and bridge work involves no major earthworks,
realignments, or changes to natural drainage, there would be little effect on
the environment. To the extent that road surfaces would be greatly smoothed
and resealed, traffic noise and dust would be decreased.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.     The project is designed to prevent deterioration of Sri Lanka's vital
road network serving the main centers of economic activity. This would be
achieved by strengthening MOH's institutional capability to carry out future
road maintenance works more effectively, as a program to rehabilitate some
road segments and bridges is implemented. The project would establish a
system for adequate road maintenance in the future through five-year main-
tenance programs; the highway planning section in MOH would be strengthened
to prepare and monitor the maintenance program; and road maintenance work
through contractors rather than force account, introduced and supported under
the project, would improve the quality of maintenance works. Further,
benefits from the work of TCC wouLd extend beyond the highway subsector in
establishing a framework for transport sector planning and coordination, and
addressing some sectoral issues on a systematic basis.
55.     Benefits.  The project's major benefits would arise from:  (a)
improved road surfaces and prevention of further deterioration; (b) avoidance
of bridge closures and possible catastrophic accidents due to bridge
failures; (c) improved routine and periodic maintenance; and (d) improved
transport planning and management. The quantifiable benefits of the proposed
project were measured by the direct savings derived by road users, namely,
reduced vehicle operating costs. The project's main justifications lie in
the substantial resource cost savings obtainable from road rehabilitation
that can be accomplished at low-cost on heavily traveled road sections where
annual average daily traffic ranges from 1,447 to 8,082 and in the
institution-building opportunities for improved transport operations in Sri
Lanka.  The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 82 percent.
The cost of patching and resealing is relatively small compared to the large
and immediate benefits obtained from improving the riding surface. Moreover,
transport savings made possible by the project would be passed on to the



consumer in the form of Lower prices and increased product availability. All
classes of the population of Sri Lanka are highly mobile, and road transport
accounts for overwheLmingly large proportion of passenger traffic. The
benefits of the project are expected to be widely distributed among all
segments of the population.  The roads and bridges included in the project
have been selected on the basispof priorities in all parts of the country to
reach as large a proportion of the population as possible and increase
economic activity at the national level.
56.     Risks.  There are no major technical risks associated with the
project.  The principal risks are associated with project execution and
concern DOH's administrative capability and the possibility of poor quality
workmanship which could lead to failure or earlier-than-expected deteriora-
tion of new work. To minimize such risks, the project provides for technical
assistance in contracts management, designs and specifications, highway
planning, and supervision. Further, training of DOH personnel in improved
maintenance methods would be provided under the project, which supplements
what is already being provided under the ongoing Construction Industry
Project (para. 45).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft loan agreement between the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
ef Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
i          Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 28, 1985



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A I L C I
SRI  1                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEEr
IR1 LANKA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIONID AVERACES) p
MOST                (NMOS? R33  ESTIMATE) h
RECCNT         OU  INCONE           310061 [tCON
194w    1i70iL       EsIDiATE&      AIU & PACIFIC         ASA & PACIFIC
am (11011IM aq   )
TOTAL                               63.6         63.6       63.6
AGRICULTURAL                        17.2         24.2       26.0
c  or,a cwn    (VI$)                   60.0       lOO.o       320.0            278.6                  1091.2
010t0 cunsuwn        ua cinn
(kILOGRAMS or OIL EQUIVALINT)      122.0        152.0      123.0            272.0                   367.3
a             n~~~iuOATo. AM Wr. STATUTCSW
-                    POPULATION.lID-TUAR tTSoUaMi)     9ua9.o      12516.0    13169.0
URBAN PO"PLTION CE OF TOTAL)        17.9         21.9       24.6             21.7                    34.7
POPULATIO PROJECTtONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 CMM)                              21.1
STATIONARY FOPULATION CIL)                               32.5
POPULATION NUSIWW                                          3.6
POPULATION KNlTT
PER SQ. N1.                      130.7        190.3      226.0            166.6                   261.9
PER SO. IN. ARI. LAD             373.9        317.6      576.6            345.5                  1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CE)
0-14 nts                         42.1         41.9       35.2              33.8                   39.0
13-S& 135                         34.3         34.5       40.6             39.6                    37.6 -
5 AIIND ARMV                       3.6           .6        4.3              4.3                     3.3
POPULATION CR0121 RPATE C)
TOTAL                              2.5          2.4        1.6              1.9                     2.3
URBAN                              4.7          4.3        2.3              4.1                     4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)        35.7         29.4       26.5             27.7                    30.1
!CQUDE OERSR RATC (Ct SIIOIIS)       9.?          7.5        6.0             10.1                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATi              2.6          2.2        1.7              1.6                     2.0
FAMILY PIANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL CT )              ..         53.3      100.5
USERS (Z OF MARRIED  ONEN)          ..           ..       5.0                ..                    52.7
,mm -M  m
INDEX OF FooD 1RO0. PER CAPITA
(3969-71-100)                       93.0        103.0      154.0            112.6                   123.0
PER CAPITA suPLY or
CALORIES CE OF REQUIRDIENTS)     102.0        108.0      102.              97.7                   134.4
PRTINS (CMRS a  DAt)              46.0         47.0       43.0             56.6                    57.0
OF WrICR AMDleL AND PULS        13.0         12.0        a.  C            14.9                   14.1
*ILD (AGES 1-4) OrATE RATC           7.1         5.1         2.9              9.                      7.2
as13
LIVE EXPECT. AT SIRTS (YER)         62.0        63.6        68.9             60.0                    60.4
INFArT MOaT. RTE Ca T2106)          70.6        36.3        32.0             83.8                     6.3
ACCZSS TO SAFE WATER (DO?)
TOrAL                               ..         21.0       20.0 d           32.9                    37.0
URIAN                               ..         46.0       43.0 H           70.9                    54.8
RURAL                               ..         34.0       13.0 #1          22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EXUETA DISOL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .         64.0       59.011            18.1                   41.3
mRNI         .                                 76.0       6S.0 71          72.6                    47.4
RAL                                 ..         61.0      -55.0              4.6                    33.3
POPULATIJ  a PSlCA                  90.0      5950.0      7170.0           3484.2                  7749.4
POP. PER IRIC PERSON              4170.0 Af   2260.0      1340.0           4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PM lOWFr.L UED
TOTIAL                           320.0        330.0      340.0 J          1066.5                 104.2
SEmA                             120.0 if    210.0       240.0            296.0                   651.2
amR"!.                          1060.0 A      570.0      360.0 1         3993.4                  2394.6
AWlISSIONS      NSP     D             ..          4.4         .. ..                                  27.0
AWERAGZ SUE Or IDOwan
TOTAL                              3.4          5.8.
IRIA                               6.3 A        6.3
RaURL                              5.2 f        3.5.
AVERAGE  O.  PIOISIRO
TOTAL                              2.01A        2.3
URSAN                              2.1 7        2.7
RaURL                              2.0 L        2.5
Aiii JO C . (S Or MIUMLE)
TOAL                               7.5          9.0
URBAN                    ~~~~33.9t    34.3
tWAL                               2.3          3.0



MXNE I
-19-                                              -NE 
Page 2 of 5
T A I L S 3A
SRI LA-KA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
Sr                                   REIURNCE GUPS CIEIG TD AVERAG)p
HOST                (HOST RSCT ESTIMATE) fb
I,OL    z,ok          EET            WICMIDDLE DEC05
1960d_!   t9?70b     2ES A           ASItA W PWACIFIC      ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDURTY  TOTAL                     95.0         99.0       103.0             97.4                    102.0
HALE                   100.0        104.0       106.0            110.5                    105.9
PSIALE                  90.0         94.0       100.0             83.7                     98.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   27.0        47.0        51.0              35.9                    46.0
a                          HlALE                    30.0        46.0        49.0              44.6                    48.7
FEIAIAE                 16.0         46.0        54.0             26.8                     43.1
t!             VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)            ..          0.4         0.4 Id           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0          ..        32.0              38.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                            ..          ..          ..              18.7                    23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)              75.0 If      77.6        86.0             53.4                     72.9
PASSEIR CARS/THOUSAND POP             8.4         7.0         7.3 It            0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/NTOUSAND POP         35.8        39.9        98.7             112.1                    113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THUUSAND POP              ..          ..         2.4              15.7                    50.1
NEWSPAPEU ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            36.0        48.9          ..              16.2                     53.9
CINEIA ANNUAL ATTENDDACE/CAPlTA       2.9 /1       7.8        4.9 R             3.6                     3.4
TOTAL LAUOR FORCE (TROlUS)         3391.0      4188.0      5771.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   22.6         23.7       24.9              33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTUIRE (PERCENT)             56.0         55.0       54.0              69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0         14.0       14.0              15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              34.3         33.5        38.0             42.6                     38.7
ALIZ                               50.8        49.1        53.0              54.7                     50.9
FEKA                               16.2         16.5        21.0             29.8                    26.6
ECONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3          1.4        1.0               1.0                     1.1
PERCET OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECVD  BY
RICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEFOLDS           26.4 A       18.2         ..                ..                     22.2
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          52.1 A      43.4          ..                ..                    48.0
LOWEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.5         7.5          ..                ..                     6.4
LOWEST 40Z OH ODUSEOLDS            13.7 A       19.2         ..                ..                    15.5
POrT mw maO
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INZOME
LEV  CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN ."                                         ..          ..             133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             111.6                    152.0
ESTDIAUD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR5AN                                ..          ..          ..                ..                    177.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         .,                .,                    164.6
ESTMUATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUlT
POVEFTY INICU  LEV  (Z)
y   URIAS                            ..          ..          ..              43.8                    23.4
KM"L.....                                                                    51.7                    37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
A    he group awvrages for ecb Indicator are population-weighted aritlhetie means.  Coverage of countres smong the
indicators depends on aveiaebility of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to  ny year between 1959 and 1961; "Deta for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Nout Recent Zstimate" between 1980 and 1982.
Is   1977; /d 1976;  / 1975; If 1962;  1t 1979; lb  1963; A  1978; 11 1958.
JUNE, 1984



-20-                                                                     ANNEX I
iePteWeat amug emaeeamPage  3  of  5
Wel...  436thes em. daem . en  c    I.-le  esmw  s..u-mttu 3w,         W d  the e aumt.uiami  as ..tt.ma., i@ .h.Id alme1 k aesd m Ieaske  sel ed k- Its.uesi.l
iepaqe"et. kece  ml it. teeS .11 etasmdlmdedd d1e1111mim  sall loop.pa med  p ditimueat .memedtea S.h...Ietq       tim   M.VWk dla. at. ..ale.aki..  usaellt S.
daesutm aider . adepSe.. 555mg, tred.. sdo mardeamitele autata.J. ddp settwsmme ksee.. welnes.
Wt. nt.k...  1,.     ... I   .t. em   -RM.eu  M-4, S at. meuk.. odmau    d£3ty emeet d-ar          shb .-.e.ta bSake  -euIPs  t- -% theeCm  -aI" su-. mf at.
ectj.eI mash- 1.m.ipi fe  'Ugh tee   oak aees..u.ue amp anar '0MIdd. I.m.e buets t Ul.a  sI WeWt. gm' ma aksem kloeen  ad Valuespma  ene-acst
weltetamal.  VisIt. Reefoa- ...si =ed     at. derena.. are pipatem lea, ai1htd mrisleti.   -  c  tswiat 9.49-to. a sCm. MR, me. eaetIM  ".1S1t. meade. Ia a
d=p kmama Cmi eke io        ls..  aIM. at. n.e..   l aeetai   o.d" it. Itea-4r   apa-0   at o. e.eiialimu Id dma. ad  a. -0 arern   mile. ml t.
t asu.ea  it ietseieg sm.j-.a   -   l.di..-  .e   o.ga.u.  Wk.- .ee.sa .u..et  dmiets  I..tp.ie.  it. wis u     WeItet am e men sle em. mdau, as
aAmmkmd ee.t..                                                                                                                           bymtm..t*wmi.PuueieAu   deaies.kiS pieetliCte
Wm1  lm   we-me mu-  m.qtteee teed Raw. iso atla  elost t"a.                           ItiTt7ua                   smm  .rtee  ma kitsuaramty taen.
mUI      = 1-bea..  eeise.mee  ..d e.gae.nu  Al W poseucmt                          ml.ta  Wm."med.    leee   mmsoat em,...    . -et  cuMilk "as
hi.p.psa"...-no  asl iettke a.edma e it.li  lsltea liow,                             Renile a-."tlstu.
Iola asa cam dot.,                                                                     ,.tme enftepdm m-mlEekeet ui   tplitEal
uk.  adW        U     I i3dumu  mu ek Ir :mp.t. Emake ad Cm.":.l
OU M      M         ~~- saP "I. uPet. neiaee. a  -M.  e.uted PRmm..                     Raeetght. It p.ma. as putemc  mmnI ad .pelstimmdol keiss  ad
a  caked mm kuled S-  as.. tommmcc keiati                                 uaktt 1imW1ia gaea.n. ehPepame    sentaught sket. p            IV.ee ate.lots
sees. IMete,da mc; dee..                                                                   mu .m ls.de med ptyair.. abtle.be.bt. puetdees pimip.e.,p  keatedigs
.su  en  we teel..dd. t.nl hw...aml. Cmemu,e imetled kth-ask-
-tweat apense   e.ta.  eamnsi                                   sem   mean. e   pnemml  asle             R pmpareesal Ike mpg at-.t
LdZmm..!lamae.aeeu,2It.         teau.n  l i.e.eetsg   p.. aumtas e.g..                     pilm. *msedV-  rai ..t "..dse       L,% lAftmt.-peem.."dk .
mets, ad  mae dee.A.1.tn1.tLItwL.- .                                                                                 - lea.t-  m.kt wo  adeimesm smes-   deeck-de.
.11  -1 ?I%-4RJ   .1  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~U,  t..titWdd1de   at ten.,1. kda
i.   .si              - a..' iiu te etee. met. glse ta                           M . h, mam-..-e-..e           m -* .-.'..    a.*-e. W....Sais. 
Pine a  ammiueeeem  et.   -hemim . cut..-momeastit, peelia                  A           mate,.   e-& me.   I -as               7se  -Ws"1
lie-9- mem  el eu  a.1.ma   stt.tm.esaimu.   aamd kaem   ae        o.       edie        um        etddm
.k-.  ft.       - teens  Rsetm. pVje em-ems                   pa                         e. V-i...  .eiut.teueaamedreesin
re.. Pu=gi  p.im e.te leer numsti usma.    n e l..- at....et.tim -d  war e.                            -     -sm
.sl.aek au-s.. 1. leumtaim,  _nudatme i.e..  teal me Pa, lads,
pismse .uuumsa.  adh en.tp  ta lb- ammts.ed min1Ilts. et.
unmiestim .1 aemmimme ad laid semi ens. Ce. pisleetla psium..  Mie4iedatii-lIoliw-1. -1 i-V
umaha..ee.dd- mInpmId  51  .s.-elesau *.umiiut                                                 PaFUU1.tuetule   -  Te.m .. 54-ns.et.
.ini. a.. .meaaecmt  teatLI ma u- ta.as  ts t    teae                              ureu   eea-s uetsesm  eIdml  letea  etid-m "aMd i.mt
epeeesiaue.tt   .  ee  pt pet-h          a. at hint rte 1. eameset                       u...a elemaS un dalueeee  szmesk   .1 1m-,T eRdeemama   In
ad eteI5. ae. deTh ra.  aaa .e Pas.uea.a- . ..t.ao,d   ke                                      Pe.. .t  L.neteetaas- tea.q   m.e   e   .m
kse ci it. pJ..Jued  teunMut.m tee  Ri   . peelel  me- t.  we..kedyeteg- et.asasPs.-tis-s..  e..
It.W,%.tsn it.. teutgee.Iatit. u,mat ha.  ha. PI-me.   sttmiettmt,= y1                                        u e,.               'up.amm. m
ma  ee  1mm  t. ..a  eRueee ..  .h   .t.d eit.  -t                                   geasei  -..rI.d.,  -S
mamm -d         We..mmm  m   eu±5  asteus  a-eu.t .1 mtm.                            ieeeamm     -Lt attme  1meeRet1  .sudeu W; eeiem   nam
miacim .cainu p.etea.. a  m-.pelal .am u   etu. gTMe                           i     lnkVt... ledtes  nmhuutgn    es   pee
antI  ttP dee.                                                                 eml-t.em.uuse:..     utae  md es.et.iu- Tleiss.dte.emttd R
umu...~~~hm.~hmmi4e..u lenietta use n.e.. telnet.. late t..meunt el  asiuape.dt.= = teate.
-e..Id. two t.e.ee. tp.1.tt   Calde-at-. eIeD.attesse  ti-                            eemceTI
p.ptlseaaa  sees, tee, ad  teeD dese.                              s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zte neat_,R.taah.  etek pImea:~1 (m~g    Ma. I ,  kete . a
teeet    inGh tat.   -1me t-tt -    Seelseet.eml  lt                                hr.-d-a.. m  t.s   .te-tu.me  1                  laa  eseted
Cu.s  eiu -m  .u  a.e.sde- ain  ea tut.  e ea.ed-e  d--.        an iuet,I.e  ut  .n.  e.rAll  p- %.e.pa.t. etm   ma
LiMe bee  ke. I., teamas  - gein  deem. -u ta, .ee   el eta-.iT fl.teeue  mR. e-teetoal ecegtt-   p. umune   suheeu.e
.   1e-eu.ed.tta c.u.  -    m.e  .1-k  .- 5.eset     I an     ,el se. m                 m u= tut  ad at..tRe -te   .teutI  8    U-.m.init.u.e
l_est.aspP- "tl-eeatC.e Sete  u(emlt as insrdte   -.1pa- Sn I  5  eate
foatti Ieme     rma.. ga   aa. ) -1 .I Seem   mm0.  .    Wlaepmea        m lu  ti Ial me1-.pc mei                                   ppe  i   .- asA. d ."ld.
at ttiah-reeuel duwc.. madermume   t  am-I i."t  olet                         vine. es-i" at ia .   -   apt I-   fea  I- ba      It.  mmea
presen.                                                                     ,eeteue -Id aum~~~~~~~ 1.em.-Imu-  ". Mnmllr m-dt1..in    lb dt-te etm 
emaula  am ume.tea at, ma mmud we'. .ek                                         T-n.eT- eMua ad  laZtat    .eten   m.mm  .a.eam   me at.e                 -m
_t-                                                               R---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~smatm  tge..e    leum5.eun   emateamm
eM. aar.tm                                                                                =.U.rtu.  Ewe. Iee med Ice  dis
1.4.. .1Peed Puseettae -  Cemata  mttt-llmtet - 5... .1 p.aesus  !wmi.AIer~  - t.at  Imiset  mauuap.issa.s.=w  tseet tki-teen
mteu t -ud .f-11e.mi  1.e1`. m.- Sas.eelre.War.ee...                                 eui oette L) - tk  u-t a.eeia    n eeume. eing-eaefec a
tells  el mc te ..tcd.dI.emee .au  pudeette  .1 en  .-.e.e                         Irmtete.ese-gae pi Zme.  l uRem  tak                     -en  teel). fee
sC..  eeri.meie.. .I.pee    _rism ..ta.  meet-el. ti,a   eea   tees  a..
deem.        -Vz    P-cniei4n`alee -                                                                 be.. ti-.et-a.   t  a.  edil      meent.m
-1 mue   smut  .1.eieema (murn  wel i.eete-       -1_ tepee  teFrmaereem..em                                           aRe.  mait.   -W mt  t.m. uee  a
suet  ecietam  l -  icI spu- l   mtats  e   ea,  .urec, pmu                       premeee.e-I  uea-t1, e      :.. me Iletelst w1 cIs  Rt.uceten
lay.Aeeic-1   ..ulu   eue   nutpeeta   .cu   m                                            et  et   ttmdt.ea.gessd   a   ew  netauaa 
mepeia. s.dtasme.. itcreek   a.,  upite  s.ta.e. gmt  t "ed  em.utnis-.e   rwee    It.puaa..C   Ie   l   uS
*neeaaee eat mc  at ui-rrelca. a    I. ..e. gtmul.u-1   betm                      .  t.a   eeiaa              lCsee
eatd meut .-1 "sdpuWel'.   -   nul  qt          .lla  I..e. IIOpureet.Imeket ft-p.uee   ..ra L=, I.ea -                                  ."   p.ee  em -pIi
eet.am   ted   1  sat   mbttdt  te   rea   . eteam                                       t;.emtt
TV.    1td  ad -eq   a-l~, tiea  tide at.PuaW                                              teesPat.=      Ieee's -"  = I -teat tate nieta - -_ .rt.m astet
dera.                                                        mlls.dmtlt~~~~~~~~~~MV'm   'm
a   t    -I en   eitle    te. UseeR.np   us.. m dntme                               inrtusam    eretiunhe  a.   -.-rep  me aera   par esi.
--l. eam..MEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~m- elt dJtar m.tiwu re .Lietm e .ra-eea
natWI-Ie-                                                                                *c  am   ces e   ut   tss.ues   e.-ta   muer     te
U1   se.am, .  mit  rart    angeetst..  s    Vatsc  ier-ue                        tutl-Pumes   se.i.tum   e  ..    tse.stu



-21-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
SRI JANIA   ECONOMIC INDICATORS
^ OATPUT IN 1983 BY SECTOR                         ANNUAL PAXE OF GROITRH (2 onstant  rices)
[!                   S ~~~MilliQn    S          1292707          9_3            7-8
Agriculture                 1,304     27.5             2.0             4.2           3.0
Industry j/                 1,257     26.6             2.1             5.8           3.8
Services                   211        45.9             3.7             7.0           5.2
Total b/                 4,732    100.0              2.9             6.0           4.3
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983
USS Million       Z
GDP at farket Prices                              5,199        100.0
Investment                                        1,488         28.6
Gross National Savings                              843         16.2
Current Account Deficit                             645         12.4
Exports of Goods and NFS                          1,354         26.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                         2,136         41.1
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs million)    S of GDP at Market Prices
1983         1975      1982       1983
Current Receipts cl                       21,088         17.2      16.6       17.2
Current Expenditures t/                   23,822         18.3      18.0      19.5
Current Surplus                           -2,734         -1.1      -1.4      -2.3
Capital Expenditures e/                   15,578          7.3      15.9      12.7
External Assistance                       10,974          3.2       8.1       9.0
a/  Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
bIl GDP at factor cost.
c/  Includes capital revenue.
dl  Includes advance accounts.
£1 Includes net lending.



-22-                      Ann
Page 5 of 5
I LAM  - ICoUDNIC  UC&TORS
c. dnT  s puin                              1Z        1!   11 12    im    iu    a                            ma
tee  *t pbtsd)                                                              (Re Million)
_.,  g-  unQmt lAou                           3,115    3.737    10.192   15.056   19,s60   24.447   30,510   37,257
easm  Credit to fublit lector                 2.856    4,oso    4.220    6.267   13.095   37,277   21.828   21.191
Usk creit t e irvat* e hteor                  1,320    4,116      0,6g    1.705   12,709   15,090   20,570   Z7.375
(Percentagoe  of Index limb.:r)
VA", au  Q"oi Kny aa o   CofW                  22.6     U.9    25.5         23.7      29.9     21.3     30.4      30.5
Ct.1  Price Rude (3970.100)                   100.0    147.0    1G4.8      182.1    230.2    271.6    301.1    343.3
LaalL Iesutage CdbM*  ia:
Ce eral  ice lad                               -5.      .1.2    .12.1      '10.6      26I.1    .18.0    *10.9    *14.0
Iam  Credit to PUblc sector                   .10.4     .7.7      -9.3    .48.3   *109.0    .31.9    .26.3       .0.4
huh CeAit to Private  ector                    .3.6     40.5    @50.7    .33.0    .4l.0   .31.3    .23.2    -33.1
of~~18                            I§|2m                HMC§1DtL  SZL    (1982)w 
(CSS million)
Ten                              353       33.3
worts of Goods. NIS                     1.346    1.305    1.354        Rubber                           121        11.'
iSports of Goods. MS                   2.055    2.205    2.138         Coconut Products                  60         5.7
Resource Gap (deficit - -)              -709      -900     -752
All Other Commodities           .2S         .6
aterest payents (na)                     -52       -80     -117
Workers' Unittences                         -        -         -             TOTAL                    1.059       100.0
Otbtr racter Paseats  (Not)               -15      -18      -18
Ne: Treasfers                             203      20'      272
Saleace o0  Current Account             -603      -734     -4S        =XTHL DtJT (S Million) &/
Direct fetaiga lowestent                   49       63       31                                     Decmber    Deember
et NILT Lean                              337      416      360                                       19. :        19.3.
Disburemte                             350       484      45
*mortisacioo                             43       61       85        Total Outstanding             3.Sbl       3.614
Capital Grasts                            161      162      171
other Capital (set)                        23       66        77       Tocal Ou:standing
Chsaq   in Reserves (- a increase)        -33      -27       .1          and Disbursed               1.965        2.205
Gross ascer,.. (end-year)       *        451       S20       514
let Iea-aer     (end-year)                  5      - 2      -21
SERVICE   TO          :)      10.1        11.9
CrSd Oil and Petroleem Products
ipotrt                                           5     90  469
aports                                  175      158      114        thRDI!DI LENDING. 1saetbgr 30, 19. (USS Willimna
Outstanding and Disbursed         54.9    342.9
bI    t|lI             tod278.                                        Uadisbursed                        IL       ajj4J
1SS1.00 * Re 15.51      5551.00 - Its 20.55
Is 1.00 - USS 0.06      to 1.00 - 553 0.05                            Octscdiag. including
Undisbursed                     66.4    661.4
1351.00 a Re 15.45      W551.00 * Is 21.32
It 1.00 * 055 0.06      go 1.00 - 055 0.05
131.00 - Re 18.00       =551.00 - Is 25.00
S  1.00 - ms 0.06       as 1.00 a -35 0.04
Al   egiyable is foreiv curremcies and with a maturity over one year.
W   Ratio of debt service  on public an  publicly guateed NILT debt (escluding mF  chars e
and rerchasc) to elorts of ood, *ad services.
South Asis P'rogrms Departlet
November 16. 1984



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GRO'IJP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of SeDtember 30. 19i4)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                     Amount
'   Credit                                                              (net of cancellations)
No.    Year  Borrower         Purpose                             Bank   IDh,  Undisbursed
Eight loans ard thirteen credits fully lisbursed                   72.9   96.1
701     1977  Sri lanka  Mahaweli Gangs Development II                   19.0       9.5
818     1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                  21.0      10.1
891     1979  Sri Lanka  Kuruaegala Rural Development                    20.0       9.4
900     1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                                16.5       7.5
931     1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5      11.3
942     1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                     16.0       3.4
979     1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance              3.0       1.4
994     1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                        53.0      21.8
1017     1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation               16.0      13.2
1020     1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                              30.0       6.8
1041     1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                             30.0      20.1
1048     1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                     19.5      10.5
1079 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                        33.5      16.0
1130 la  1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                           13.5       5.9
1160 La  1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation               30.0      20.2
1166 /a  1981  Sri Lanca  Nahaveli Ganga Development III                  90.0      48.1
1182 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                          30.0      25.5
1210 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                   36.0      16.3
1240 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                              20.0      14.1
2187     1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                             42.7     -       11.5
1317 la  1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                       9.0       8.3
1363 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                         23.0      21.1
1401 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                  25.0      21.2
1494 /Abl1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV                   30.0      30.0
2437 /b  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV            12.1             12.1
v,  TOTAL                                                             127.7  695.6    375.3
of which has been repaid                                         49.2    4.2        -
'  Total nov outstanding                                              78.5  691.4
Amount sold                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                  78.5  691.4
Total Undisbursed                                                  23.6  351.7    375.3
La  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amouits shown in US dollars equivalent
at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports and undisbursed
amonts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at
September 30, 1984.
lb  Not yet effective.
Lc  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of th US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



24
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMELr OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1984)
Year            Obligor                       Type of Business        Amount (US$ Million)
Loan   Equity  Total
1970       Pearl Textile                     Textiles                  2.50   0.75    3.25
1978180/83 The Development Fina.1ce
Corporation of Ceylon           Development Banking        -     0.45    0.45
1978/81    Bank of Ceylon                     'evelopment Banking       7.00    -      7.00
1979       Cyntex                            Textiles                  3.15   0.54    3.69
1979       Mikechris Industries              Polypropylene Bag         0.89   0.10      .99
1980/84    LOLC                              Leasing                    -      0.34    0.34
1981       Taj Lanka Hotels                  Hotel                    19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                                 32.84   2.88   35.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                            16.10    .75   16.85
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                       16.74   2.13   18.87



25
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Supplementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project              2 years
(b) Project prepared by                            Government with
IBRD assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank Group           February 1982
(d) Departure of appraisal mission                 March 1983
Ce) Completion of negotiations                     February 22, 1985
'f) Planned date of effectiveness                  August 1985
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Allocation of sufficient funds for the five-year
maintenance program (para. 42).
(b) Timetable for TCC studies and consultation on
findings and recommendations (para. 44).
(c) Establishment of Project Management Cell (para. 48).



..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ..aI; '                                                                                               '
oint Podro
a  t  S E C O N D ROADS PRO E CT:
Roods to be Rehabilitated:
- 1  \  Asphalt Concrete Oeilay
/  ->  - -Surface Dressing
1  e                     \X&ru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lloiHti                                               ...
Bridges to be Rehabilitated:
Toloi  nor                                                                                                        a Mnlcu\  By Conctro-
0-\ By Force Account
Roods:
- t/_ A Grade
-B Grade
|  \ r om;Seldeted Minor Roads
Gulf of Mannar  J                                                                                                     +-.- Railroads
,   National Capital
*   District Copitols
O   Other Towns -:
lkalrIelt ;nl.                                          . 0                           .9 -_    District Boundaries
International. Bou.'ori,'
Kotpi lly4  -I
I.00'             tialam                                                                                                                                           1'rd9nkodawa:0'o
...  ,  .      .  , , s. .  s   ;.;,   ..  , ! ,  ,, ,     .   ' ..  '  .'  ..  . 



Pradensyon           \    /I
Madompe                            Kurun.-ago
Negonobo                                          era 
|COLOMBOW -                                                                                                                           >_
rawaneluwop  -i ad
\iV\S0 ~ ~ ~ I 11                                                                                                                              ft fa rslno *Ill SW owC2k
lnem d  in EU  mv flmfto
Kn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  lu flbr\EuiahD dop   *- Eu_
tnrot                    Po --wdnkeF i  ,   X  1>   z  F^r,ST^ri
cWV do -.          d m ft
S I                        .'I
Pu,mdurat.qtrrf                                                   Okw 2(JG                                          6CO-C                                      se ;t:r
wo~~~~KLt' IER5 Ranpr                                                                                                          vdwii9rfhd
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o NW sosa om
aw--co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w 0                                                       . r  a






