Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9029-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi (¢)
US$1.00 = ¢340 (appraisal rate)
¢1     = US$0.003
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DHMT                 District Health Management Team
DMOH                 District Medical Officers of Health
HERP                 Health and Education Rehabilitation
Project
IEC                  Information, education and communications
IPPF                 International Planned Parenthood
Federation
MFEP                 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MCH                  Maternal and Child Care
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NCS                  National Catholic Secretariat
NGO                  Non-governmental organization
PCG                  Presbyterian Church of Ghana
PHC                  Primary health care
PNDC                 Provisional National Defence Council
PPAG                 Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana
UK-ODA               United Kingdom Overseas Development
Administration
UNFPA                United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO                  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                         i
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                 1
II.  POPULATION AND HEALTH IN GHANA                               1
A.   Population                                              1
B.   Health                                                  4
C.   IDA Role and Past Activities                           11
III. GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES IN HEALTH AND POPULATION              12
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                 16
A.   Project History and Objectives                         16
B.   Summary of Project Composition                         17
C.   Project Description                                    17
D.   Project Costs and Financing                            24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                      26
A.   Process and Status of Project Preparation              26
B.   Project Management and Coordination                    26
C.   Procurement                                            28
D.   Disbursements                                          29
E.   Environmental Aspects                                  31
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                   31
A.   Benefits                                               31
B.   Risks                                                  32
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                        33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Ghana in
January 1990. The members were D. Berk (mission leader), N. Bennett
(planner,, V. Kumar (pharmaceuticals specialist), D. Sebina (public
health specialist), Ms. M. Pollock (principal health services and
nursing adviser, UK-ODA), and R. Harris and N. Price (UK-ODA
consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2-1 Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
2-2 Leading Causes of Outpatient Morbidity, 1987
2-3 Health System of Ghana
2-4 Outpatient Attendances, 1976-1987
2-5 Regional Indicators of Health Problems, Services and Utilization
2-6 MOH Recurrent Budgets by Type of Expenditure, 1988-1990
2-7 Public Investment Program in Health, 1988-1992
2-8 External Assistance
2-9 Long-term Targets
2-10 Implications of a Gradual Decline in Fertility
3-1 Ministry of Health Priorities
3-2  Government - NGO Agreement
4-1 Drug Supply Infrastructure
4-2 MOH Procurement Procedures
4-3 Expanded Program on Immunization: Financing Requirements
4-4 Current Organization Chart for MOH
4-5 Proposed Orga.iization Chart for MOH
4-6 Institutional Development of MOH
4-7 Management Information System: Indicators
4-8 Project Hospitals: Indicators
4-9 Hospital Equipment to be Supplied under the Project
4-10 MOH Hospital Equipment Maintenance Service
4-11 PPAG: Clinic Component
4-12 PPAGt Community Based Distribution Component
4-13 Support for District Health Management
4-14 Prizes Fund
5-1 Project Implementation Arrangements
5-2 Project Cost Summary (Expenditures by Project Component)
5-3 Summary Accounts by Year (Expenditures by Type)
5-4 Procurement Actions
5-5 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5-6 Proposed Supervision Plan
5-7 Documents Contained in the Project File
Map: IBRD  22777    Ghana: Second Health and Population Project



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Health
National Catholic Secretariat (NCS)
Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG)
Presbyterian Church of Ghana (PCG)
Credit Amount:       SDR 19.5 million (US$27.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:    US$0.8 million to NCS, US$2.8 million to PPAG,
US$0.3 million to other mission hospitals and
US$0.1 million to other family planning NGOs, all
as grants
Proj ect
Description:         The project will support the qualitative
improvement, reform, and extension of coverage of
the family planning and health services of the
Ministry of Health and leading NGOs. The program
in population will focus on institution building
and on strengthening and expansion of family
planning programs to Liplement Ghana's long-
standing population policy; in health it focuses on
strengthening and expansion of primary health care,
procurement/supply, institutional development,
manpower development and public expenditures.
Project components are for (a) drug and vaccine
supply and drug infrastructure rehabilitation, (b)
MOH institution-building, (c) supply, repair and
maintenance of district hospital equipment, (d)
population and family planning, (e) district-level
primary health care, and (f) a prizes fund to
provide incentives for better performance by health
workers and health-promoting behavior by
communities.
Project Benefits
and Risks:           The benefits would be a substantial improvement in
health service quality and coverage, especially for
the poorer population; and more efficient supply of
essential drugs and service provision. Family
planning expansion would bring multiple
demographic, health and other social and economic
benefits. The major risk is of insufficient MOH
implementation capacity despite the limited project
size and simplified implementation arrangements.
Lesser risks are of insufficient Government
commitment to implement its priorities, e.g.



- ii -
allocate sufficient resources to primary health
care and/or bring about a major expansion of family
planniuig efforts.
Estimated Project Costs
Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ millions) ---
Drugs Vaccines & Drug Infrastructure          1.9       7.7      9.6
MOH Tnstitution-Building                      0.2       0.4       0.6
Hospital Equipment & Maintenance              1.1       4.4      5.5
Population/Family Planning                    1.1       4.0      5.1
Primary Health Care                           3.1       4.6      7.7
Prizes Fund                                   0.5       0.4      0.9
Project Implementation                        0.2       0.2      0.4
Base Cost                               8.1      21.7      29.8
Physical Contingencies                        0.5       1.3      1.8
Price Contingencies                           1.3       1.5      2.8
Total Project Costs                     9.9      24.5      34.4
Notes:  Including US$2.1 million equivalent in d ties and taxes.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan:                              Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ millions) ---
Government                                    5.5        1.5     7.0
Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana    0.3           0.0     0.3
International Planned Parenthood
Federation                              0.1        0.0      0.1
IDA                                           4.0      23.0    27.0
Total                                   9.9       24.5    34.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements                  IDA Fiscal Year
91    92    93    94    95
------ (US$ milion) -
Annual                                 1.4   8.1   6.8   6.8   3.9
Cumulative                             1.4   9.5  16.3  23.1  27.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
MaP:                  IBRD No. 22777



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ghana has been engaged in a far-reaching and courageous
program of economic recovery ard structural adjustment since early 1983
under the leadership of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC).
As part of this program, the Government has reversed the previous
precipitous fall in expenditures on social services, including health.
It is now placing even more stress on social sector development, to help
mitigate the social costs of adjustment, provide basic health (and
education) services to the population and to promote the development of
Ghana's human capital for the long term. Against this background, there
has been widespread concern in Ghana for some time at the poor
performance of the health sector, and thus at the inadequate quality and
coverage of health services. There is also concern at the relatively
poor implementation of a population policy which made Ghana a leader in
Africa when it was fir3t promulgated, and at the adverse implications of
Ghana's conti,Luing rapid population growth for the desired rise in
living standards.
1.02      The Government has therefore requested Bank assistance in
advancing its sector priorities in health and population through
financing the proposed project to improve health and population services
in Ghana. This report recommends IDA financing if SDR 19.5 million
(US$27.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years. Ghana's Ministry of Health would use US$23.0 million. The
National Catholic Secretariat would receive US$0.8 million and the
Presbyterian Church of Ghana $0.3 million for hospital equipment and
maintenance, and the Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana US$2.8
million and other NGOs active in family planning $0.1 million, all as
grants, to implement their respective portions of the project.
II.   POPULATION AND HEALTH IN GHANA
A.   Population
Current Situation
2.01      Ghana's population was 12.2 million at the 1984 census, with
51 persons per square kilometer, and is estimated to have reached 15.0
million in 1990. In the 1980s, the population growth rate is estimated
to have peaked at a rapid 3.2Z per annum, and the total fertility rate
remains 6.4.
2.02      Ghana was a pioneer in adopting a broad population policy in
1969 with explicit demographic targets and in establishing a family
planning program; but implementation has been erratic, so that after
twenty years desired and actual fertility remain high and contraceptive
prevalence modest. This is despite the opportunity provided by an



- 2 -
apparently large unmet need among both women and men for both child
spacing and limitation of births.
2.03      Contraceptive prevalence in Ghana is estimated to have b.en
^nly 11-13Z in 1987-88, and estimates of the use of efficient methods
d.Lffer conside-ably (from 5Z to about 10?). The Ministry of Health
(MOH) accounts for 402 of the 300,000-odd clients through family
planning services offered at about 80Z of its 400-plus maternal and
child health (MCH) clinics. There are two non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) involved in family planning on a considerable
scale, plus some smaller ones. The Planned Parenthood Association of
Ghana (PPAG) accounts for 322 of total clients through 46 clinics and
168 community-based programs, and the Christian Council of Ghana for 6Z.
Pharmacies account for 192, including contraceptives sold through a
social marketing program.
Major Issues
2.04      Current population growth is already eating up a major
portion of the gains from economic recovery and structural adjustment.
Unless it is slowed, it will put great pressure on food supplies, energy
resources, the environment, the education system, the labor market and
the health services. It will make it difficult or impossible for the
Government to afford its goals for the improvement and universalization
of health, education and food security. And it will greatly slow the
rise in per capita income, which could reach a level in 2020 nearly 40?
higher under a gradual fertility decline than with today's high
fertility.
2.05      At current growth rates, future population growth will be
substantial. Annually between 1988 and 2000, about 700,000 babies will
be born. But alternative paths for fertility could mean greatly
different population sizes within one generation. A rapid decline in
fertility could yield a population of 25 million by 2020, whereas
constant fertility will yield 45 million. Gradual fertility decline,
the most likely path if a serious family planning effort is mounted,
will result in a population of 32 million by the year 2020.
2.06      The major family planning program issues are the needs for:
(a) stronger explicit commitment and leadership by a wider range of
high-level Government officials, to supplement public statements of
support such as those of the PNDC Chairman (head of state) during the
last year, broad target-setting and active monitoring of progress; (b)
adoption of an explicit objective of increasing the number of family
planning acceptors/users as fast as possible, and of specific targets
for the program; (c) adoption of a program strategy and of action plans
for the various institutions and components involved, including the
definition of priorities for design of an accelerated program; and (d)
solutions to implementation problems, especially that of timely and
adequate contraceptive supplies.



Policies and Strategies
2.07      There is a high return to the relatively modest cost of
family planning programs, in terms of savings on future education and
health budgets and on future food imports. Furthermore, many of the
benefits accrue immediately: to maternal and child healta, and
consequently reduced loads on the health services, and to per capita
income growth; while the reduced load on the education system and budget
is felt within six years.
2.08      Actions Already Taken.  The Government organized a national
population conference in June 1989 to commemorate the twentieth
anniversary of the population policy and to relaunch the population
program. Since then it has drafted a proposal to create a national
population commission to d'Jrect, and monitor the progress of, the
program. It is taking part in the donor-sponsored Agenda for Action to
Improve the Implementation of Population Programs in Sub-Saharan Africa
in the 1990s and has completed a pilot study. A relatively comfortable
central stockpile of most types of contraceptives has been built up, and
training has been provided to large numbers of health workers in both
public and private sectors in information, education and communications
and in certain aspects of service delivery. However, there remains a
relative lack of urgency about the program, direction from the top has
not been coordinated, consistent and strong in the past, and until
recently there has been little sign of a pick-up in demand for
contraception.
2.09      Reforms During the Project Period.  Under the project and
other donor-financed projects, the Government will advance its
priorities in population, as discussed in section III of this report.
2.10      Medium- and Long-Term Objectives.  MOHI believes that Ghana
can attain a contraceptive prevalence rate (modern methods) of 202 by
1994, which requires an increase of about 2Z per annum. At that time
MOH expects to supply about 251 of total services. By the year 2000 the
contraceptive prevalence rate could reasonably reach 30Z.
2.11      External Assistance.  Large-scale donor assistance for
population resumed in 1985 with a USAID-financed project providing large
quantities of contraceptives and of training of health workers in both
the public and private sectors. One focus was on information, education
and communications training, the other on service delivery covering a
range of contraceptive methods. UNFPA also carried out a significant
program. The ongoing IDA-financed project (paragraph 2.36) includes a
study to establish a reproductive risk checklist. UNFPA has approved a
US$10 million program for 1990-1994 with a wide range of population
activities. USAID is processing a US$35 million project for 1991-1995
with major emphasis on population, especially non-governmental channels
of family planning service delivery, and will continue supporting a
nation&1 information, education and communications program.
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) continues to support
its affiliate Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana with technical and
financial assistance, the latter at a rate of about US$0.9 million per



annum. The proposed project will suprlement other donor assistance to
MOH, PPAG and other NGOs active in family planning.
B.   Health
Current Situation
2.12      Health Problems.  Ghana has made considerable progress in
increasing life expectancy at birth (to 54 years in 1985) and in
reducing mortality. Nevertheless, the health status of the population
remains poor, as evidenced by infant mortality of 90 per 1000 and
maternal mortality of 5-10 per 1,000 births; high prevalence of
preventable infectious and parasitic diseases (malaria accounts for 432
of outpatient morbidity, followed by upper respiratory infecticns and
diarrheal diseases with 8Z each); and poor nutritional status. There is
also considerable inequality of health status between urban and rural
areas and among regions, as well as different disease patterns. The
levels of child and maternal malnutrition are very high although they
appear to be improving: the 1987/1988 Ghana Living Standards Survey
found chronic malnutrition of 31X and acute malnutrition at 82 of
children under 5, while 70% of pregnant mothers tested at antenatal
clinics in ~.989 were anemic by WHO standards.
2.13      Overview of the Health Car  System.  Ghana's health system in
1990 counts some 1,365 service facilities above community level and
about 840 functioning community clinics. The public sector includes 49
MOH general hospitals at teaching (2), regional (8) and district (39)
levels and a dozen specialized hospitals, about 10 urban and 300 rural
health centers and posts and about 170 separate maternal and child
centers; a dozen hospitals run by parastatals; and another 10 hospitals
run by the armed forces and police. Recently the Social Security and
National Insurance Trust has begun building small health facilities (10
are programmed). There are 35 health training institutions. Missions
run 41 hospitals and 64 clinics. The private sector operates some 400
clinics and 300 maternity homes. Total bed capacity is 18,300 (one for
819 people), with 13,400 in public sector and 4,900 in mission
facilities, and has not increased since 1985. There are also some 3,500
drug outlets. MOH facilities at all levels require extensive
rehabilitation, including basic infrastructure and medical equipment.
Only slow expansion is taking place.
2.14      Around 300 NGOs operate in Ghana, providing health,
population, and nutrition services to a large portion of the Ghanaian
people. The Government has prepared a draft framework agreement with
NGOs to formalize these relationships (Annex 3-2). In 1987 NGO services
were valued at more than ¢2.6 billion, or about half of MOH's own
recurrent expenditures. Mission facilities now account for almost 302
of hospital beds and inpatient admissions, and 352 of outpatient care.
The Catholic church is by far the largest member of the Christian H-calth
Association of Ghana. NGOs appear to operate more efficiently than MOH,
often in remote rural areas, and external funding increases the services
they provide. Mission facilities may La in somewhat better condition
than those of MOH. There are 300 private doctors, mostly located in



- 5 -
Accra and Knmasi.  The private medical sector is flourishing.  Private
midwives have potential for expanding into rural areas and family
planning services. The profitable private pharmacy sector is expanding,
with some 400 practitioners mostly in Accra and Kumasi.
2.15      Underutilization of many available services is a major
problem. Outpatient attendances fell from 1J-11 million in 1973 to only
about 4 million in 1985 and appear to have stagnated at 5 million
(perhaps 6 million after correcting for under-reporting) from 1987 to
1990, mainly as a result of declining standards including shortages of
drugs. On the other hand, the number of in-patients has doubled since
1985 to ar. annual rate of 380,000 in 1990; but this has raised the
average bed-occupancy ratio only to about 46Z. The geographical
coverage of primary health care services remains unsatisfactory in the
great majority of regions (paragraphs 2.17-2.22), although immunization
and maternal health service coverage are improving.
Major Issues
2.16      Organization and Management.  Many of MOH's problems have
been of long standing. The major ones related to its organization and
management have been: (i) a gap between policy rhetoric and
implementation, most notably as regards prior4 Ly for primary health care
(PHC) and decentralization; (ii) an almost complete absence of planning;
(iii) budgets not based on planning targets or realistic norms; (iv)
poor management practices and absence of management processes in
day-to-day running; lack of clearly defined roles, job descriptions, and
administrative and organizational guidelines; far too few key managers,
and thus concentration of decisioz. making, leading to bottlenecks;
separation between the technical and the administrative wings;
over-dominance of medical professionals, even in areas requiring other
skills; lack of effective personnel policies: serious shortages of
qualified administrative and managerial personnel at all levels;
existing qualified personnel concentrated in la.ge; urban centers; far
too many non-medical non-technical staff; (v) lack of horizontal
communication at all levels, producing a lack of integration among the
main PHC initiatives, poor allocation of resources, and duplication of
effort; (vi) donors compound existing problems: each program is
prepared according to the donor's own priorities and perceptions; each
presses MOH to give it the highest priority; and donors require the
establishment of parallel distribution systems. A radical restructuring
of MOH, and the appointment of a number of new qualified managers to key
positions, are needed to significantly improve the delivery of health
services, both curative and preventive. MOH has announced a
reorganization in August 1990 and has started to bring in new managers
for non-medical positions (paragraph 3.08). A local aid group for the
sector (paragraph 2.35) is improving donor coordination.
2.17      Services and Inputs.  Total coverage, and hence access to
health services, remains low; the moderr health system effectively
reaches around 65Z of the population; and there is great inequality of
access, both between urban and rural areas (approximately 10OX of the
urban population but only about 50Z of the rural population) and



especially among regions: rural coverage varies by region from on.y
about 10? to 10OX.
2.18      Official policy remains PHC-based, but PHC consistently
receives only about 23Z of MOH's recurrent budget, far too little to
support the expanded coverage required to meet the nee;'s.  In the system
as a whole, there is no technical support to, and supervision of, lower
levels.  District health management teams (DHMT") are weak.  Lack of
transport has prevented large-scale outreach activities until the recent
acquisition of mopeds. Drug supplies are intermittent at lower levels
although the national supply position has begun to improve.  There are
no realistic and effective targets and plans for expanding PHC.
Investment produces few completed PHC facilities. In sum, PHC is still
relatively neglected in practice, while prep-ures mount to invest more
in hlgher-level hospitals.
2.19      Existing specific objectives and targets, set in 1978, flow
from an original target of 80? PHC coverage by 1990 which in most cases
remains out of reach. Maternal and child health (MCH) services have
achieved some increases in coverage (antenatal care could be as mach as
80Z, supervised deliveries nearly 30%, but well-child services very
low). They still suffer from equipment and supplies problems and
inadequately trained staff. The expanded program on immunization (EPI)
achieved only low coverage until 1988, experienced high dropout rates,
had acute transport problems, and with its campaign approach of the late
1980s faced increasing problems of sustainability; however after a
massive effort in 1988/89 45Z of children under one received three shots
of DPT vaccine, and the effort is being sustained in 1990. The most
widespread nutrition programs, growth monitoring and supplementa-y
feeding, may only reach 20-25? and 15Z respectively of the target group.
The hospital-based programs are too costly to replicate; those at
nutrition rehabilitation centers are inconvenient for mothers;
supplementary feeding is not closely targeted on children in need and is
diluted by the food being taken home, and current nutrition education is
ineffective. Information, education and communications have suffered
from a lack of a viable strategy, a lack of integration with the
activities of other agencies, and resource starvation; the upshot has
been scant impact in the 1980s.
2.20      Ghana has trained fairly impressive numbers of medical
personnel. Unfortunately, however, the years of economic decline have
led to a mass exodus of qualified people both from the public sector and
from Ghana. About 965 doctors currently work in Ghana (one for 20,450
people), of whom 611 are in the public sector (227 in the teaching
hospital in Accra alone), 55 (plus 25 expstriates) in missions, and 300
in the private sector. MOH employs 10,000 nurses, 80? of them clinical.
Primary health care (PHC personnel) number about 4,000 at the health
center/post level (level B) and about another 3,000 (only 102 of
original plans) at the village level (level A). Responsibility for
manpo-wer and training is dispersed, there is no plan for manpower
requirements in relation to service targets, and hence there is no
systematic manpower development. The geographical distribution of
clinical personnel is highly skewed. MOH employs far too many people



(38,000), with the excess in the lower, non-medical non-technical
grades. Enrollments in pre-service training programs are unbalanced in
relation to needs, and the curricula are undergoing extensive revision,
while in-service training programs have until recently fallen far short
of needs.
2.21      MOH's present drug supply system is failing to meet the
country's needs. Demand estimation has not until recently been based on
needs or actual consumption. The procurement process is cumbersome and
has been known to take up to four years from tender. Even the Central
Medical Stores has stocks of only 50Z of the essential drugs on the
national list at any one time. The allocation of available items to
healt.h institutions is arbitrary. The distribution system is poorly
organized. As a result, stockouts are frequent everywhere. Expiry of
drugs remains a problem. MOH employees have been using up to 402 of
hospital drugs. MOH drug pricing has not until recently been based on
costs. Facilities are not ideally suited for storage and security.
Equipment is inadequate and not properly used. Inventory management
needs considerable improvement. Not surprisingly, users' confidence in
the system is low.
2.22      Mobility is essential for staff of health centers and posts
who are involved in preventive and outreach activities, and for
officials at all levels for supervision. However, despite the provision
of hundreds of new vehicles to MOH over the years, lack of maintenance
and a consequent lack of mobility have persisted. In 1987, only 25Z of
MOH vehicles were roadworthy, with about another one-third worth
repairing. While the situation has improved somewhat since then, MOH
still pays insufficient attention to maintenance.
2.23      Finance.   Total health expenditures in Ghana consist of MOH
expenditures, NGO expenditures, and private expenditures on private
for-profit care, both modern and traditional, and on MOH services. A
rough maximum estimate of total health expenditures in 1987 would be as
follows: MOH recurrent spending of ¢5-5.5 billion and capital spending
of 02-2.5 billion (including external assistance), NGOs ¢2.6 billion,
and private for-profit (estimated from early data from the Ghana Living
Standards Survey) ¢ll billion. Total health expenditures may thus have
been at most about ¢21.5 billion, or 2.9Z of 1987 GDP.
2.24      MOH's recurrent budget has increased greatly in recent years,
from ¢9.8 billion in 1988 to ¢20.4 billion in 1990 (Annex 2-6). Per
capita MOH expenditures in 1990 were budgeted at ¢1,349, equivalent to
US$3.97. The nominal increases in MOH's recurrent budget in 1989 and
1990 were 61? and 28? respectively; in real terms the increase in 1989
was 29Z, but in 1990 faster than expected inflation has meant a 5Z real
decrease. MOH's share of the total Government recurrent budget has
grown from 9Z in 1988 to 11Z in 1990. The structure of the MOH
recurrent budget has changed somewhat in appropriate directions.
Personnel allocations have decreased from 46Z in 1988 to 41Z in 1990,
while allocations for goods and services (items 2-5) have increased
correspondingly from 47Z to 52Z. This latter increase has been possible
because MOH has been given a steadily growing share of the Government's



total allocations for items 2-5, from 172 in 1988 to 252 in 1990. This
increased emphasis on health has made for real growth of such
allocations by 46Z in 1989, but faster than expected inflation has meant
a fall (of 8Z) in 1990. Within the budget, the share of drugs and
dressings has remained at 20-21? partly because of donor support for
drugs; but the shares of travel and transport, and of maintenance,
repairs and renewals, have both increased, raising their combined share
from 3.42 in 1988 to 5.02 in 1990. Finally, the share of primary health
care has remained at 23-242 over the period. Figures for actual
expenditures disaggregated into these categories are not available.
2.25      Remaining issues with the recurrent budget are the need to
part-finance the rebuilding of drug stocks; inadequate allocations for
PHC; still inadequate allocations for maintenance and possibly also for
travel and transport; and continuing shortfalls of actual non-wage
recurrent expenditure from budget allocations, caused by both Ghana's
budgeting and expenditure system and MOH administrative weaknesses
(these shortfalls were as much as one-third in 1987 but have diminished
considerably since then). To finance the needed increases in
expenditures there is a need to control the present high and unmanaged
hospital expenditures, and to realize the large potential savings from
laying off non-technical staff, better drug supply management and
contracting otlt institutional feeding.
2.26          In both 1988 and 1989 actual capital spending from the
domestic budget greatly exceeded the original allocations, by 1742 and
392 respectively at 04.4 billion and ¢5.0 billion. This was due partly
to greater priority for health but also partly to laxity in project and
financial management by MOH and MFEP. Implementation performance has
been poor, partly because resources have been dispersed over too many
projects and partiy because of inadequate supervision. As a result, the
returns in terms of completed facilities although poorly documented
appear to have been low. The share of capital expenditures in MOH's
total expenditures (recurrent plus capital) is budgeted at 312 in 1990
including external assistance. Total spending on some 20 health
"projects" is projected at ¢27 billion in the 1990-92 public investment
program (PIP) for health, with two-thirds to be financed from the
domestic budget and counterpart funds and one-third (09 billion,
equivalent to US$27 million) from disbursements of donor funds. Project
content and costs are poorly defined in the absence of health needs
estimates and service targets, leading to notional allocations in the
PIP by area of the health system.  While most of the program is
(appropriately) for PHC and for hospital rehabilitation, proposed new
teaching and regional hospital projects have not been adequately studied
and some appear to have low priority; and the balance between PHC and
hospital investments requires better definition in light of service
ptiorities and project costs.
2.27      The overwhelming majority of public sector health financing
comes from the budget. However, cost recovery (full cost for drugs, and
charges for most clients and services, since 1985) has increased
gradually to around C1.15 billion in 1989. The current charges may be
too great for people in remote rural areas and for the more costly or



- 9 -
prolonged inpatient stays; and overcharging by MOH staff is also
becoming an issue. Past abuse by MOH staff of their privilege of free
drugs is currently being stemmed. Health institutions have been allowed
to retain 10OZ of drug fees and will have to purchase their drug
supplies from the medical stores under a proposed new cash and carry
scheme. Recently some degree of Government approval has been given for
proceeding with a health insurance scheme for easily identifiable and
reachable groups such as modern sector workers and cocoa farmers; a full
feasibility study has been commissioned. It will be important to ensure
professional management of any scheme, and to avoid rapid cost
escalation and subsidization of the scheme from general tax revenues.
Substantial external assistance has been committed to the health sector,
but disbursements have been very modest, largely but not entirely
because of MOH's weak implementation capacity.
Policies and Strategies
2.28      Actions Already Taken.  The Government fully recognizes the
inadequacy of the existing population, health and nutrition services as
analyzed above. Its initial reform focus has been on health, largely
because the problems are so great and so visible, but also because
improved health services are one important requirement for a more
successful population program, and because more successful nutrition
strategies have not yet been evolved. With a view to rapidly improving
the quality and coverage of the iiealth services, it embarked in 1988 on
a broad program which emphasizes a manageable number of the most
important reforms required, in the four key areas of management,
procurement, financing, and manpower.
2.29      Between 1988 and 1990, the MOH has carried out a great deal
of preparatory work, and introduced a number of reforms mainly in the
area of drug policies. It organized a national health symposium in June
1988; completed studies on reorganization of the Ministry and on health
policy, manpower and finance; and secured enactment of a new Hospital
Board Law. It started implementing an essential drug policy, including
introducing essential drug lists and a national formulary; audited the
inventory of drugs at all levels and destroyed expired drugs at all
stores and hospitals; and started preparing annual estimates of drug
needs based on epidemiological data. It is using competitive tendering
increasingly for drug procurement. It has secured a special permit to
clear imported drugs immediately from the port. It has secured formal
approval (as mentioned above) to retain 100Z of the proceeds of drug
sales for use in drug resupply under a cash and carry system it is
currently designing. It has rationalized drug pricing and is in the
process of rationalizing MOH staff consumption of drugs. It is starting
pilot schemes under UNICEF's Bamako Initiative to test the feasibility
of financing PHC from patients' payments for drugs. In the area of
finance, the recurrent budget for 1989 included significant improvements
in the allocations for travel/transport and for maintenance, and that
for 1990 further improvements for maintenance; annual drug budgets have
also been increased considerably. On the investment side, priority
continues to be attributed to the rehabilitation and completion of
health stations for PHC and to the rehabilitation of district hospitals.



- 10 -
MOH has completed an inventory of the rehabilitation needs of health
stations. It has also completed a study of the rehabilitation needs of
eight major hospitals, three of which are being financed by the African
Development Fund, and studies on two regional hospitals are getting
underway.
2.30      Reforms During the Project Period.  Under the project, the
Government will advance its priorities in health (including nutrition)
and population, as discussed in Section III of this report.
2.31      Medium- and Long-Term Objectives.  Reasonable targets would
be to achieve 80Z coverage of PHC, and 302 contraceptive prevalence, by
the year 2000.   Service extension and investment directed at extending
coverage should focus first on the high under-5 mortality regions (Upper
East and West, Northern and Central) and under-served areas (rural areas
generally, and among regions the northern half of the country and
Western). A major objective should be to restore public confidence in
and utilization of the health services. The investment priorities for
the 1990s should be the rehabilitation of existing health stations,
completion of those under construction, and (with a smaller and cheaper
design) construction of new ones; and hospital rehabilitation according
to explicit priorities.
2.32      The Government encourages the expansion of both NGO and
private sector activities in population. In health, it supports the
mission health services extensively. The private medical sector
(doctors, midwives and pharmacies) is active. It is regulated to the
limited extent permitted by the institutional resources of MOH and other
bodies such as the Pharmacy Board.
2.33      External Assistance.  Pledged and committed assistance for
population, health and nutrition activities from about 15 official
donors for the period 1985-90 was about US$40 million from bilateral
sources and about US$45 million from multilateral sources, or little
over US$1 per head per annum. UNFPA has financed a range of population
interventions. UNICEF activities have emphasized immunization and other
aspects of maternal and especially child health. USAID has financed
family planning. WHO has financed a range of specialized technical
assistance. UNDP has financed technical assistance in health planning,
statistics and organization and management. Disbursements have lagged
well behind original expectations, leaving a considerable balance at the
end of 1990.
2.34      Funds already available or likely to become available from
official donors during the period 1991-95 amount to at least $120
million (Annex 2-8). Almost all is accounted for by six major donors:
USAID ($35 million approved for family planning and control of malaria,
diarrhoeal disease and AIDS), IDA (S4 million in existing loan plus $27
million for the proposed project), African Development Fund (US$18
million loan for major hospital rehabilitation and immunization signed),
Saudi Futnd ($9 million loan for new health stations signed), UNFPA ($10
million new program approved) and UNICEF ($10 million new program being
processed). Additional funds are under discussion from other donors



- 11 -
(e.g. Canada, Denmark, Germany, United Kingdom) and new donors may enter
the sector.   Last year's public investment program document projected
donor disbursements at US$27 million during 1990-92; even though some
recurrent aid is not included, the figures appear far below the rate
required to spend available funds by the scheduled date of 1995. MOH
will have to strengthen its project management capabilities greatly to
be able to carry out or coordinate the execution of all these donor-
financed programs as well as investments financed from the domestic
capital budget. This is being addressed by the creation of a new
Division at headquarters, as well as by the decentralization of
operational responsibilities, under the current reorganization of MOH
(paragraph 3.09).
2.35      The main donors meet regularly with MOH in a local aid group
for the health sector. They have intensified their activities this year
to better coordinate the next round of assistance to health and
population, as all the largest donors--UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID and IDA--
have been designing and appraising new multi-year programs of assistance
during this period.
C.   IDA Role and Past Activities
2.36      The Health and Education Rehabilitation project (Credit 1653-
GH, approved in FY86) was the first IDA operation in the sector,
designed to meet a number of emergency requirements identified at the
time. The many components included drug supply and the rehabilitation
of facilities for delivering PHC services and combating malnutrition.
The project also financed studies of health policy, health finance and
health manpower. Implementation was very slow for about two years, as
MOH senior staff at large did not identify wi.th the project, the project
implementation unit remained weak and procurement and construction
delays were widespread. In the last two years, implementation has
speeded up somewhat. Most of the remaining uncommitted balance of about
US$4 million will be committed in the next few months. The original
closing date of December 31, 1990 is being extended by a year to
finalize disbursements. The implementation of this first project with
MOH has shown the importance of borrower commitment, simple design
(especially minimizing the number of separate procurement actions and in
particular civil works contracts) and adequate staffing for project
implementation.
2.37      IDA carried out a comprehensive review of Ghana's population,
health and nutrition sectors in 1988 (Report No. 7597-GH, dated March
31, 1989). This review identified a wide range of sector reforms
needed, as well as areas in which services should be both improved and
extended. The Government has accepted the recommendations. They are
being followed up through the program for advancing sector priorities
discussed in section III, and through the proposed project components
whicii respond to identified high priority needs. The IDA has been



- 12 -
carrying out annual reviews of the public expenditure program in health
since 1985. It is an active member of the local aid group for health.
III.   GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES IN HEALTH AND POPULATION
3.01      There is widespread agreement in Ghana and among donors on
the need for considerable reform of Ghana's population and health
sectors, to achieve the Government's objectives of rapidly improving the
quality and coverage of services. The IDA analyzed the needs and
priorities for reform in its sector review, with which MOH generally
agreed. In February 1989, the PNDC Secretary for Health delivered a
policy statement as the basis for MOH's work, a large proportion of
which coincided with recommendations made in the IDA review.
3.02      MOH and MFEP have defined MOH priorities in health and
population for the period 1991-93 with a timetable for advancing them
(Annex 3-1). The priorities lie in the four areas of:
(a) expansion and strengthening of primary health care (including
family planning);
(b) procurement and distribution of supplies;
(c) institutional development; and
(d) human resource development.
The size and composition of public expenditures in the sector will be
crucial to advancing these priorities.
Expansion and Strengthening of Primary Health Care
3.03      The expansion and strengthening of PHC will give special
emphasis to maternal and child health and family planning, immunization,
nutrition and environmental sanitation. The quality of care will be
improved. Equipment will be provided or rehabilitated as necessary.
Communication systems will be installed between district health offices
and level B facilities. District warehouses will be constructed. MOH
will introduce expanded outreach services (based on mopeds supplied
under the existing project) in all regions by December 31, 1991. Beyond
this, it will prepare a realistic program by December 31, 1991 for the
expansion of PHC coverage. As part of this, MOH will prepare a master
plan for the provision of health facilities, bearing in mind the
location of existing facilities, population distribution etc., and a
program based thereon. NGOs will be encouraged to provide PHC.
3.04      To manage and support the effort, more full-time District
Medical Officers of Health will be appointed (there are only about 28
now in the 110 districts): 10 more by December 31, 1991, another 15 by
December 31, 1992 and another 15 by December 31, 1993. District health
management team (DHMT) members will be appointed and both regional and



- 13 -
district health managemetnt teams trained. Staff housing, offices and
administrative support will be provided. To regulate relationships with
the mission health facilities, a MOH-NGO framework agreement has been
drafted, listing each party's contributions, role and obligations, and
it will be finalized by June 30, 1991. Plans for effective support and
supervision will be drawn up and implemented.
3.05      In population, the Government will create a national
population commission to direct, and monitor the progress of, the
population program. The national strategy for information, education
and communications related to population which has been drawn up will be
implemented progressively. Service delivery will be expanded as rapidly
as possible through four major channels: MOH, NGOs especially PPAG, a
contraceptive social marketing program, and private physicians and
midwives. The proposed USAID-financed operation (paragraph 2.35) is
addressing the creation of the national population authority (within 6
months of signing in early 1991) as does the proposed IDA-financed
project (paragraph 3.13), the elaboration of program targets and action
plans, and policies to increase contraceptive accessibility, price
flexibility and cost recovery.
Procurement and Supply
3.06      The Bank has been closely involved in reforms of the drug
supply system that began in mid-1988 (inventory and destruction of
expired drugs, needs estimate, and procurement through competitive
bidding). MOH is finalizing essential drug lists which are already
binding on its own procurement. MFEP has agreed to 10OZ retention of
drug fees by MOH to help finance drug resupply. New drug prices
calculated on a consistent basis related to costs and yielding important
savings to many patients were introduced in late 1989. Issues of
pharmaceuticals to MOH staff are slowly being rationalized. A cash and
carry system for drugs has been designed whereby all health institutions
will pay for the drugs they receive from medical stores.
3.07      The national capacity to undertake purchasing for MOH will be
strengthened: a provisional organization structure has been worked out
for the Division of Supply Management and the Director designated. An
appropriate system for distributing all supplies from the central
medical store to health facilities will be designed and installed. MOH
stores will be rehabilitated. A system of information flow and data
processing in drug management will be designed and established.
Inventory management and control will be strengthened. Prescribing
practices will be improved.
Institutional Development
3.08      The need to reorganize and decentralize MOH has been
recognized by most parties for some time and was a prominent theme of
the national health symposium in June 1988. Local consultants working
with MOH staff prepared reorganization proposals for the Secretary of
Health. The importance and delicacy of this reorganization required
careful preparation, the building of broad support at high levels of



- 14 -
Government and therefore a considerable time in preparation. The
Secretary announced the main features of the reorganization on August
15, 1990 and the Chairman of the Committee of Secretaries has personally
assisted in its implementation. The pre-reorganization structure is
shown at Annex 4-4, and the new structure at Annex 4-5. The new
structure has at its top levels a Chief Director, six Divisions headed
by Directors, and a National Health Advisory Board supported by a number
of policy analysts. The Divisions will be responsible for
planning/policy, manpower, information/research, supply management, aid
coordination/project management and administration. This structure
reflects the functions which the headquarters level of MOH should
continue to perform even after operational decentralization. The
Government has interviewed candidates to draw up a list of persons
eligible for Chief Director posts, from which when it is finalized the
Secretary for Health can select a suitably qualified person. The
Secretary designated the six Directors in October 1990 and their formal
appointments are being processed. These are the key appointments in the
effort to strengthen MOH. They will also permit MOH to enter the
project implementation period with the team already in place that will
advance the sector priorities and implement the project.
3.09      Beyond reorganization per se, MOH headquarters will be
strengthened and made more effective in a number of areas. Each of the
new units will develop work programs and staffing and recruitment plans.
The planning function will be strengthened: a total of 8 posts has been
approved, and more than half of the staff are in post or about to be
appointed. Both national- and district-level planning will be supported
and carried out. The supply management function will be strengthened
(as discussed above). External aid coordination and project management
will be improved: the Director-designate is already on the job and
initial staff for project management have been trained in procurement.
The implementation and monitoring arrangements for MOH's investment
program will be strengthened. A management information system to
generate key indicators (Annex 4-7), and a related system of regular
performance monitoring at different levels and of follow-up action, will
be designed by December 31, 1991 and introduced by December 31, 1992.
Cooperation between MOH and NGOs will be promoted and formalized to some
degree, with a master framework agreement prepared by June 30, 1991
(paragraphs 2.14 and 3.04). MOH will also develop an effective system
of supervision at all levels.
Human Resource Development
3.10      MOH is continuing its extensive programs of pre-service and
in-service training. However, to ensure that its activities are well-
based, it will develop a manpower master plan by March 31, 1992 with the
help of consultants, based on its proposed master plan for the provision
of health facilities, and on staffing norms it will develop by September
30, 1991. Such norms should reflect realistic workloads and
productivity assumptions, not just ratios of staff to beds as hitherto;
and the norms should then be used in staffing decisions. From this
manpower master plan MOH will derive a revised master training program
by June 30, 1992. Reflecting the main conclusion of the 1988 health



- 15 -
manpower study, MOH is expected to reduce the intake of clinical nurse
training schools while increasing the intake of PHC nurse trainees. MOH
has identified a package of incentives most likely to motivate staff.
Finally, MOH will lay off about 1,500 non-medical non-technical staff in
1990, as part of the Government's total redeployment effort. If such a
redeployment is achieved in each of the next two or three years, and
given the normal annual inflow of newly-trained staff and attrition,
total MOH staffing could fall by up to 1,000 annually from its present
level of 38,000.
Public Expenditures
3.11      Building on progress already made, the structure of the MOH
recurrent budget for 1991 and onwards will be improved further through
increases in the share of PHC (through sufficiently rapid increases in
the real levels of allocations for PHC) and adequate allocations for
travel/transport, maintenance and drugs. Budget allocations will be
based increasingly on service delivery plans incorporating reasonable
staffing and other norms. MOH will prepare a master plan for the
provision of health facilities to extend PHC coverage. Monitoring and
control of investment expenditures will be tightened considerably and
MOH's role enhanced.
Relationship to the Project
3.12      As discussed above, the health sector needs considerable
further reform if it is to fulfil its potential and meet Ghana's
national health needs. It also r.eeds considerable investment as well as
other inputs to permit a major expansion of service coverage and
quality. The proposed project therefore includes two major efforts: the
advancement of sector priorities in health and population, and capital
and recurrent inputs. In conjunction with the project, the Secretary of
Health has approved a statement of MOH priorities in health and
population prepared by MOH and MFEP (Annex 3-1). MOH has prepared an
implementation timetable for advancing these priorities, with targets
covering the years 1991-1993 (same Annex). This timetable was agreed at
negotiations. Carrying out this plan according to the agreed timetable
will be a general condition of the proposed credit. The introduction of
a few urgent and key reforms will be conditions of various stages of
project processing as detailed below and summarized in section VII of
this report. A mid-term review will be held not later than December 31,
1992 to assess progress on the sector priorities and of project
implementation. The former judgment will give special weight to the
status of actions in a few key areas set out in the Appendix to Annex 3-
1, which is also a schedule to the draft Development Credit Agreement
for the proposed project. Both the existing project (while uncommitted
funds remain) and the proposed project will provide support for studies
and other activities required to prepare and implement the reforms.
3.13      In population, the project will support more energetic
direction of the national program. Establishment of the national
population commission (paragraph 3.05) will be a condition for the
disbursement of IDA funds for contraceptives supplied to MOH.



- 16 -
3.14      The project will support further reforms in public
expenditure in health. The Government will provide IDA, on the occasion
of the annual joint public expenditure review or, in the absence of such
a review, by December 31 each year, with a satisfactory MOH recurrent
budget and three-year rolling public investment program in health. This
will start with the 1991 recurrent budget and 1991-1993 investment
program. Understandings were reached that IDA's reviews will focus on
the following subjects:
(a)  Recurrent budget - increase in the    re of primary health
care, and adequate allocations fot    rel/transport,
maintenance and drugs; allocations based increasingly on
service delivery plans incorporating reasonable staffing and
other norms; and
(b) Investment program - priorities; project selection using the
criteria common to the overall public investment program;
relationship to the proposed master plan for extension of
primary health care coverage; and arrangements for improving
the implementation, monitoring and control of the program,
including MOH's role.
MOH will be expected to provide data on actual expenditures, not just
budgets, to guide these reviews.
3.15      The project will support several further reforms in
procurement and supply. In particular, establishing an advisory drug
tender committee in MOH and formalizing a policy of competitive bidding
for all drug procurement (both international and local) will be a
condition of disbursement for the supply of drugs. The effective start
of the cab' and carry system, i.e. health institutions paying for drug
resupply from MOH stores, will also be a condition of disbursement for
the supply of drugs.
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.   Project History and Objectives
4.01      Project History.  The proposed project is the successor to
the ongoing Health and Education Rehabilitation Project, discussed in
paragraph 2.36 above.
4.02      The 1988 IDA review of the population, health and nutrition
sectors (Report No. 7597-GH, dated March 31, 1989) identified a wide
range of sector reforms needed, as well as areas in which services
should be both improved and extended. The project components were
identified jointly with MOH and leading NGOs, and in consultation with
other major donors, in April 1989. MOH and the NGOs prepared the
project with some assistance from local consultants between June 1989
and January 1990.



- 17 -
4.03      Project Obiectives.  In population, the project aims to bring
about an increase in the availability and accessibility of family
planning setvices.
4.04      In health, it aims to bring about a progressive improvement
in the quality and coverage of the health services especially in terms
of PHC. This extension will also improve equity through a focus on the
underserved three northernmost regions of Ghana.
4.05      The project will further support the implementation of
Government sector priorities, involving important policy, institutional
and program changes, and improved programs of public expenditure in the
sectors.
B.   Summary of Project Composition
4.06      The proposed project components are:
(a) Drug and vaccine supplies and drug infrastructure
rehabilitation;
(b) MOH institution-building;
(c) District hospital equipment and its maintenance;
(d) Population/family planning;
(e) Primary health care, especially its management; and
(f)  A prizes fund, to provide incentives to h ilth workers for
better performance and to communities for health-promoting
behavior.
There will also be support for project implementation.
C.   Project Description
(a) Drugs vaccines and drug infrastructure rehabilitation
4.07      Drug supplies.  Ghana began to rebuild its drastically
depleted stocks of drugs in 1989, with a total of US$4 million in
financing from the ongoing IDA-financed project in 1989 and 1990 as well
as United Kingdom, Canada, European Economic Community and UNICEF
financing. In future years, it needs to meet growing annual needs,
complete the restoration of stocks and maintain them at adequate levels.
MOH has determined the levels and composition of annual drug needs on
the basis of attendance and morbidity data, an essential drug list and
standard treatments. The growth of Ghana's population, the extension of
health services and the increased availability of drugs is expected to
result in a growth of annual demand for drugs of up to 201 per annum
during the project period. In addition, stocks at various levels of the
system need to be rebuilt and kept at reasonable levels. Total
purchases are expected to cost US$15-16 million equivalent in 1991,



- 18 -
US$18-19 million in 1992 and US$21-22 million in 1993. An increasing
proportion of drug purchases is expected to be financed by patients, as
the proposed cash and carry scheme starting in mid-1991 will increase
the pressure on health institutions to collect drug charges and to
account for the receipts. Under this scheme the health institutions at
all levels will pay for resupply of drugs--not just requisition them--
from the medical stores. Nevertheless, both budget allocations and
donor contributions will continue to be required for some years more.
The project will therefore finance US$3.8 million worth of drugs on a
declining basis: some US$1.6 million in 1991 and some US$1.1 million per
annum in 1992 and 1993.  Before _-a disburses for drug purchases, the
Government will formalize its policy of competitive bidding for both
international and local drug procurement and MOH will establish an
advisory tender committee (Annex 4-2); and the drug cash and carry
system will have become effective (i.e. health institutions will have
started to pay for drugs received .rom MOH stores).
4.08      Vaccines.  The extension of immunization coverage depends on
a sufficient supply of vaccines. As a result of a major effort in
1988/89, over 90Z of children under one year received BCG vaccine, about
70? measles vaccLne, and about 45Z received three doses of DPT and OPV
vaccines. Ghana's target is to immunize 80? of its children in their
first year, starting in 1990. The financing requirements for the
expanded program on immunization (EZ'T) are detailed in Annex 4-3. Ghana
requires US$1.3 million worth of vaccines annually, including those for
the six EPI diseases, yellow fever and meningitis. As UNICEF and other
donors no longer expect to be able to finance the full requirements as
in the past, the proposed credit will finance US$2.9 million worth of
vaccines, spread evenly over 1992, 1993 and 1994.
4.09      Drug infrastructure rehabilitation.  The project will also
support improvements to the most important aspects of the drug supply
infrastructure. The Director has been designated for the Division of
Supply Management which will be reorganized and strengthened. Project
assistance will include equipment, training and technical assistance (24
man-months financed from the proposed credit) for the Division;
rehabilitation and improvement of the central, ten regional and one
teaching hospital medical stores; establishment of sound inventory
management practices; establishment of an independent testing laboratory
for drug quality control; expansion of training for pharmacists and
pharmacy technicians; and education of drug prescribers. More details
are given in Annex 4-1. MOH will simultaneously work to resolve the
problems it has encountered in distributing drugs and other commodities.
For immunization, Canada and UNICEF are expected to continue to finance
most of the cold chain maintenance and extension needed to assure the
potency of vaccines.  The proposed credit will finance a total of
US$400,000 in cold chain equipment and spares in 1992 and 1993 to
supplement their contributions.
(b) MOH institution-building
4.10      MOH's present management weaknesses and the consequent need
for reorganization create the need and opportunity for the project to



- 19 -
help build or strengthen a variety of units and create effective
management systems. The units to be assisted are the National Health
Advisory Board and the six Divisions, with support also for the MOH's
consultant adviser on reorganization. The main tasks required are
described in paragraph 3.09. The project will provide office equipment
and vehicles, office supplies, training, and technical assistance in
organization development in the iormative stage of eaci unit (about 12
man-months per unit plus some overall assistance, or a total of 106 man-
months). Details are provided at Annex 4-6.
(c) District hospital equipment: supply, repair and maintenance
4.11      Equipment supply.  The district hospitals serve more clients
than do regional or teaching hospitals: 0.6 million outpatients and
64,000 inpatients in MOH district hospitals, 1.1 million outpatients ar.d
82,000 inpatients in mission hospitals in 1987. They also serve as the
referral points for more serious cases from primary health care
facilities. This is reasonable in view of the Government's priority for
rehabilitation investment, especially at district hospitals, and the
current underutilization of many hospitals.
4.12      The project will support the re-equipping of 7 MOH hospitals,
3 hospitals operated by the National Catholic Secretariat, and other
mission hospitals (a hospital operated by the Presbyterian Church of
Ghana (PCG) is expected to participate) in the three northernmost
regions of Ghana: the Northern, Upper West and Upper East Regions. Two
of the three regional hospitals will be included, to ensure that they
have at least the standard facilities of the district hospitals in their
regions (the third one will be rehabilitated with other external
financing). Basic operational and financial indicators for the project
hospitals are in Annex 4-8.
4.13      MOH nas drawn up a standard list of equipment for district
hospitals based on their functions and a reasonable assumption about
future workloads. It has carried out an inventory of its own project
hospitals and divided existing medical equipment into the categories of
functioning, broken down but worth repairing, and irreparable; and
ascertained what items on the standard list are missing. NCS has
carried out a similar exercise in its hospitals in the project regions
to update the computerized inventory of hospital equipment it maintains
already. The numbers of the major items of equipment to be provided to
each hospital, and a list of minor items to be provided to all
hospitals, under the project is at Annex 4-9. The Ghana Supply
Commission is currently drawing up equipment specifications on which it
will consult MOH and NCS. Suppliers will be expected to provide
installation and training. Each hospital already has the needed staff
to receive this training and operate the equipment to be provided and/or
repaired. The credit will finance equipment for both the MOH and the
mission hospitals, including installation and service agreements (next
section).
4.14      Equipment repair and maintenance.  Low maintenance budgets,
insufficient access to foreign exchange and lack of qualified staff for



- 20 -
many years have contributed to the present large needs for
rehabilitation of MOH facilities at all levels, including basic systems
such as electricity and watwr supply; basic medical equipment; and other
simple items. In particular, much of MOH's hospital equipment has
fallen into disrepair. A good part of this can be repaired, and there
are already some spare parts in Ghana. Mission hospitals are in better
condition, because of bigger budgets for maintenance, an organized
maintenance service including sufficient engine,-ing expertise, and
international NGO assistance. Despite MOH's present weakness,
experience in Ghana and elsewhere has shown that only partial reliance
can be placed on contracting out mainten.nce or relying on overseas
vendors iind their local agents.
4.15      MOH therefore plans to create an appropriate level of
engineering coverage for all levels of its health services. It is in
particular need of organizational and technical expertise and the
provisior. of modern workshop equipment. It has begun implementation
through a project supported by UK-ODA, initially to train core higher-
level staff and rehabilitate the workshops at the two teaching
hospitals, which will in due course support lower-level facilities. MOH
has outlined an eventual three-tier Hospital Equipment Maintenance
Service, with units at national, regional and district levels. To
support the project hospitals in the three northernmost regions, it will
use mobile workshops while progressively extending its fixed bases, from
Kumasi in 1990 into the three project regions during 1991-93. These
bases will be coordinated with the existing NCS Hospital Engineering
Service so that each base serves adjacent groups of hospitals. MOH has
elaborated the functions, workshops, equipment and tools, vehicles,
spare parts and staff required at each level and defined the needed
training programs. The build-up of the MOH hospital equipment
maintenance service is detailed at Annex 4-10.
4.16      The NCS service has its largest base at Kumasi and one
smaller base in the northern half of the country at present. It appears
adequately staffed and equipped to handle most repairs and maintenance
for its hospitals in the three regions, but would receive certain small
requirements under the project. NCS trains its own staff in-service and
is also working with a technical institute at Kukurantumi to introduce
an in-service curriculum from the fall of 1990; MOH and NCS will plan
together how technical training can be coordinated.
4.17      The project will support an initial repair exercise to
reclaim much of the presently broken-down equipment; progressive
extension of the MOH service; and the NCS service. Having a full-time
MOH maintenance engineer for the three regions in place is a
satisfactory starting arrangement for the MOH service and will be a
condition of disbursement of the sub-component for hospital equipment
supply; MOH has already placed an engineer recently trained by UK-ODA in
Kumasi. The project will supply equipment and tools, vehicles, spare
parts and training, largely for the MOH maintenance organization in the
three regior.s, and finance any repairs MOH may contract out to NCS or to
private firms in Ghana or abroad (vendors, their local agents or
others). MOH and NCS will need to have adequate maintenance budgets--



- 21 -
either centralized or at hospital level--for the project hospitals. MOH
will maintain an updated inventory of the status of equipment in its
project hospitals as NCS already does.
(d) Population/Family Planning
4.18      The project will support three types of activity: (i) the
acquisition of equipment and supplies (especially contraceptives) for
MOH maternal and child he Lth and family planning (MCH/FP) service
delivery points; (ii) the acquisition of equipment and supplies for
clinics of the Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) which will
be relocated; and (iii) acquisition of contraceptives and vehicles for
the expansion of PPAG's community based distribution of family planning
services.
4.19      MOH MCH/family planning services were provided from 474 fixed
service delivery points in 1989. MOH estimates that 200 of these need
rehabilitation; UNFPA is currently expected to support 100, and the
existing project the remainder, on the basis of MOH's standard lists of
equipment and annual supplies. MOH currently offers family planning
services at all of its service delivery points.
4.20      MOH and USAID have calculated MOH's requirements for
contraceptives, based on Ghana reaching a 20Z :ontraceptive prevalence
rate by the year 1994, and with MOH providing about 25? of supplies.
Given expected levels of support from UNFPA and USAID, the credit will
finance US$1.9 million worth of contraceptives per annum for MOH spread
evenly over the years 1992-94. MOH will make available up to $0.1
million worth of these contraceptives to NGOs involved in family
planning other than PPAG, for example the Christian Council of Ghana,
under arrangements acceptable to IDA. Understandings were reached that
these arrangements would include provision of the credit proceeds to the
NGO on a grant basis, and reporting requirements. Before IDA disburses
for MOH contraceptives, the Government will need to establish a national
population authority (paragraphs 3.05 and 3.13).
4.21      The Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) provides
family planning services and IEC through a network of 46 clinics (about
half of them in urban areas, and 26 operated jointly with MOH) and 168
community-based distribution (CBD) agents to about 150,000 acceptors.
PPAG suffered a high management turnover and supply difficulties
starting in 1988. It has addressed them in 1990 through a combination
of installation of a competitive remuneration package, extensive new
recruitment to the vacant and new professional positions recommended in
a management consultant study, and management and technical training
with assistance from the International Planned Parenthood Federation
(IPPF) to which it is affiliated.
4.22      PPAG plans to re-equip its 20 owned clinics, but to phase out
of all the clinics jointly run with MOH during 1990-92 as MOH capacity
to take over increases. PPAG will relocate its staff to 26 new clinics
elsewhere. This should expand the number of acceptors through PPAG by
16,000 by 1993. The project will support the relocation of 26 clinics.



- 22 -
This component is detailed at Annex 4-11. In addition, PPAG will expand
its pioneering activities in community based distribution (CBD). There
will be an increase from some 168 CBD agents in 1989 to some 820
nationwide by 1993, providing orals and non-prescription contraceptives
to an additional 26,000 acceptors. The CBD component of the project is
detailed at Annex 4-12. PPAG has depended heavily on its "parent"
organization, the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), to
finance its programs in the past. However, IPPF faces many new demands
on its resources, so PPAG has developed limited income sources of its
own and also turned to other donor financing. To help finance PPAG's
plans, IPPF is expected to provide about US$2.6 million during 1991-93,
including US$0.1 million in financing for the two components included in
the proposed project. The credit will finance clinic equipment,
furniture, vehicles, contraceptives and other supplies and training.
(e) Primary health care
4.23      Training for District Health Management Teams (DHMTs).
Nearly all of the DHMTs for the 68 "old" districts were provided in
1986-88 with a health service management course. However, they have
found it difficult to apply this training in a resource-constrained
environment with onerous financial and administrative regulations
concerning expenditures. Starting in 1988, WHO with Bank and UK-ODA
financing has been providing workshops in problem-solving within the
existing -nvironment (so-called phase I management development) to
DHMTs, first in Volta Region and now also in Ashanti and Brong-Ahafo,
these three being the regions where the teams are strongest and more
often led by District Medical Officers of Health (DMOHs). The training
also involves the development of a corps of Ghanaian facilitators,
permitting the WHO role to shift progressively to one of monitoring.
The process has been well received and will be extended to other regions
on the basis of their expressed interest. There will be continuing UK-
ODA support, to phase I workshops in Upper East and Upper West and to a
phase II management and infrastructure development in Volta Region
(including training in planning for both the regional authorities and
the DHMTs). The proposed credit will finance phase I workshops in three
more regions (starting with Eastern in 1991), and phase II management
development in seven regions (all those mentioned save Volta).
4.24      DHMTs' basic operational needs are commonly not met at
present. Thus a nationwide survey in late 1989 showed a need for large
numbers of houses for District Medical Officers of Health (DMOHs) and
the four other core members of DHMTs, offices for DHMTs, residential and
office furniture and office equipment, and vehicles, without which it is
difficult to post full-time DMOHs to the districts and have effectively
functioning DHMTs. The Government's objective is for each "old" district
to have a suitable house for a DMOH and offices for its DHMT by the end
of 1993, on the basis of a standard list of DHMT requirements already
drawn up. The proposed credit will finance the construction and
furnishing of 40 DMOH houses, and office equipment and furniture for 44
of 54 DHMT office blocks to be financed and constructed by MOH, while
UK-ODA expects to provide office equipment and furniture for the 10
blocks needed in Volta Region under a separate project. The needs by



- 23 -
region and the program each year during 1991-93 are shown at Annex 4-13;
MOH needs to decide the sequence of sites. MOH regards the availability
of suitable housing as a key prerequisite for the appointment of new
full-time DMOHs (paragraph 3.04). Understandings have been reached on
satisfact.ry arrangements for getting the houses built efficiently
through the use of private firms for supervision and competitive
bidding; also that the second batch of houses will only be built once
most of the first batch have actually been occupied by full-time DMOHs,
and the third batch once most of the second batch have been similarly
occupied.
4.25      To help it provide services nationwide, MOH has invited a
number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) active in the health
sector in Ghana to take the leadership role in managing all the primary
health care services of individual districts anywhere in Ghana. The
project provision of DHMT basic operational needs includes these NGO-led
districts.
4.26      The proposed credit will finance the installation of
equipment for radio communications between district hospitals and health
centers and posts, starting with the underserved northern half of the
country. These links will permit the provision of clinical advice on
difficult cases to lower-level institutions, and faster responses to
emergencies such as the need to transport women with life-threatening
complications of pregnancy and delivery to the hospital. They will also
facilitate district health administration, for example by permitting
more efficient ordering and flows of drugs.
4.27      The proposed credit will also include provision to finance
studies of particular importance for the development of Ghana's
population, health and nutrition services, and a small sum for high-
priority primary health care expenditures which cannot be identified at
this stage. Potential subjects for the studies are e.g. quality of
care, manpower planning, the supervision system, nutrition strategy,
beneficiary assessment, village-level PHC, and service provider
attitudes and functional task analysis. Experience under the ongoing
project shows the value of reserving some unallocated funds for newly-
arising high-priority purposes.
(f) Prizes Fund
4.28      MOH has decided to strengthen its management of the health
system, and improve the motivation and performance of staff, in a number
of ways. One is the establishment of a prizes fund to provide
incentives for superior performance by individual health workers and
health institution teams and for health-promoting behavior by
communities. A similar scheme was successful in promoting health and
femily planning services in Maharashtra, India in the early 1980s, and
incentives have been employed in a number of national family planning
programs. Prizes will be awarded on the basis of a number of criteria.
In 1991 staff and communities below district level will be eligible; in
1992, the district level also; and from i993 the regional level too.
Prizes will range from building materials for communities for use on



- 24 -
development projects, to vehicles for health institutions for use in
health service delivery, to training opportunities, appliances and
bonuses for health facility teams and individuals. Further details of
the proposed performance criteria and prizes are provided at Annex 4-14.
D.   Project Costs and Financing
4.29      Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at US$34.4
million equivalent (including US$2.1 million in taxes and duties) with a
foreign exchange component of US$24.5 million or 71Z. Base cost
estimates are calculated using June 1990 prices. Physical contingencies
of 52, 1ox and 20Z have been applied to expenditures for equipment,
other capital items and civil works respectively, and of 52 and 102 to
expenditures for contraceptives and vaccines respectively. Price
contingencies have been derived from the implementation schedule and the
following expected rates of price increase: foreign prices 2.6Z in 1991,
4.12 in 1992, 3.82 in 1993 and 3.8Z in 1994; local prices 152 in 1991,
10X in 1992 and 52 per annum in 1993-94. The exchange rate is expected
to adjust to reflect differences between the international and domestic
rates of inflation. A summary of the project cost estimates is provided
in the Table below; detailed project costs by component and by
expenditure category are presented in Annexes 5-2 and 5-3 respectively.
Table: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign    Total
----- (US$ million) ----
Drugs Vaccines & Drug Infrastructure         1.9       7.7       9.6
HOH Institution-Building                     0.2       0.4       0.6
Hospital Equipment & Maintenance             1.1       4.4       5.5
Population/Family Planning                   1.1       4.0       5.1
Primary Health Care                          3.1       4.6       7.7
Prizes Fund                                  0.5       0.4       0.9
Project Implementation                       0.2       0.2       0.4
Base Cost                               8.1      21.7     29.8
Physical Contingencies                       0.5       1.3       1.8
Price Contingencies                          1.3       1.5       2.8
Total Project Costs                     9.9      24.5     34.4
Notes:  Including US$2.1 million equivalent in duties and taxes.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 25 -
4.30      Financing Plan.  The Government will contribute US$7.0
million equivalent to finance 202 of total project costs. Planned
Parenthood Association of Ghana will provide US$0.3 million equivalent
(12). External support will be provided by International Planned
Parenthood Federation (US$0.1 million equivalent)(0.32). The proposed
credit will provide US$27.0 million equivalent to finance US$23.0
million (94Z) of foreign exchange costs and US$4.0 million (40Z) of
local costs, and together 782 of total project costs. It includes the
financing of US$10.9 million in recurrent costs, virtually all of it for
drugs, vaccines and contraceptives. In the case of drugs, the share of
IDA financing will decline each year, while the cash and carry system
will reduce Ghana's dependence on outside financing. However, with
vaccines and contraceptives, the potential for cost recovery is limited;
and at present Ghana is not in a position to finance these supplies from
its budget. A high degree of aid dependence must be assumed for some
time to come.
4.31      Sustainability.  The project has a number of features
designed to promote its sustainability and also replicability within
Ghana. It will place little burden on future recurrent budgets. Much
of the capital expenditure is for rehabilitation (stores, hospital
equipment), and a portion is destined for NGOs which will finance its
operation and maintenance. The only significant increase for MOH will
be for equipment maintenance; MOH already needs to expand current
allocations for all types of maintenance. The use of essential drug
lists, expanded use of competitive bidding, and improved prescribing
practices will lessen the cost of meeting annual drug needs. The drug
cash and carry system will provide increasing dedicated resources with
which to finance drug resupply as the supply of project- and more
generally donor-financed drugs phases down. The increased availability
of drugs and consistent cost-based pricing will encourage increased
utilization of health services. The hospital equipment maintenance
organization is designed to ensure the continued working of new and
repaired equipment provided through the project, again encouraging and
sustaining the utilization of services and also significantly postponing
future replacement demands for equipment. As for replicability, the
district hospital equipment list has been standardized for use
countrywide. The features of the equipment maintenance organization
will also be standardized. MOH has developed standard lists of
equipment and supplies needed for its MCH/FP activities. District
health management teams will be provided a common list of items of
standard design and specifications to meet their basic operating needs.
The project will thus provide a series of useful models for carrying out
these types of activities in other parts of the country.



- 26 -
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Process and Status of Project Preparation
5.01      The project was identified jointly by MOH and the Bank in
April 1989; other donors were also cor,sulted. It was agreed that MOH
and the NGOs concerned would be responsible for project preparation with
some local consultant input rather than either international consultants
or the Bank. The Government's project preparation report was completed
at the beginning of January 1990. Appraisal took place in January 1990
and negotiations in October 1990.
B.   Project Management and Coordination
5.02      MOH will play the largest role in project implementation,
with the National Catholic Secretariat and the Planned Parenthood
Association of Ghana implementing individual components. The MOH
project manager will chair a working level project implementation
committee, the members of which will include the working level project
coordinators of NCS and PPAG (see below). This committee will meet at
least once every two months, review the progress of and problems in
implementation, and produce specific proposals for speeding up
implementation. Once a year there will be a full day meeting of the
agency heads.
5.03      The first IDA-financed project has been managed by a
relatively autonomous project implementation unit within MOH staffed by
local consultants. As part of its reorganization, MOH will set up a new
headquarters Division for External Aid Coordination and Project
Management. Its Director will be the Project Director for the proposed
project. A project management unit for IDA-financed projects will be
established as an integral part of the Dix   )n.  Four full time
relatively senior officials will work in i   ider the Project Director:
a project manager, a procurement specialist, a logistics specialist and
a monitoring and evaluation specialist. They will have sufficient
support staff, office facilities and transport as well as budget. A
full-time coordinator for IDA-financed projects (the project manager
referred to immediately above) and a full-time procurement specialisr
(both regular MOH staff) will have to be in place as a condition of
effectiveness. A detailed statement of MOH implementation arrangements
is at Annex 5-1. MOH will carry out the procurement of hospital
equipment for NCS and other mission hospitals with its own to reap
economies of bulk purchasing. MOH will also submit all withdrawal
applications for NGO-related expenditures as well as its own to IDA in
view of its experience, to ensure that the former are in order and thus
to avoid delays (paragraph 5.17).
5.04      The National Catholic Secretariat (NCS) will administer its
portions of the proposed project (district hospital equipment and its
maintenance, and district PHC management) through its existing
structure. The NCS Health Department will play an overall coordinating
role, including liaison with the MOH and IDA, and will designate a



- 27 -
project coordinator from among its existing staff. The relevant
diocese, assisted by hospital and district managements, will be
responsible for project activities at individual facilities or in
individual districts in its area. The NCS Hospital Engineering Service
will undertake equipment maintenance at Catholic health institutions
participating in the project and will assist MOH in equipment
maintenance as requested. These institutions are adequately staffed and
experienced to carry out the physical aspects of project implementation.
5.05      Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) will carry out
its portion of the population/family planning component using its
existing staff and organizational structure. PPAG is receiving
institutional and financial support from the International Planned
Parenthood Federation (IPPF) to which it is affiliated. PPAG will
appoint a project coordinator from among its existing staff.
5.06      Both NCS and PPAG have agreed, and other participating NGOs
will agree, to meet IDA's procurement, reporting and audit requirements
under the project. NCS, PPAG and other mission hospitals will sign
project-related agreements with the Government which will record these
obligations as well as the Government's passing IDA funds to these NGOs
as grants. The arrangements for other mission hospitals will parallel
those for NCS, taking into account the specific requirements of the
hospital concerned.  Understandings were reached on the arrangements for
other NGOs active in family planning.



- 28 -
C.   Procurement
5.07      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following
table:
Procurement Method by Expenditure Category
(US$ millions)
TOTAL
PROJECT ELEMENT                       ICB    LCB   Other   N.A.   COST
Civil Works                                   5.6                     5.6
(2.5)                  (2.5)
Equipment, Vehicles,
Drugs, Contraceptives,            15.2     0.5      1.0           16.7
Supplies & Materials             (15.1)   (0.5)   (1.0)          (16.6)
Furniture, Vaccines,                          1.2      3.2            4.4
Spare Parts                               (1.2)   (3.2)           (4.4)
Technical Assistance,
Training, Studies                                   3.3            3.3
(3.3)         (3.3)
Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.9      0.9
incl. Supplies                                           (0.2)
(0.2)
TOTAL                                15.2     7.3      7.5   0.9    30.9
(15.1)   (4.2)   (7.5) (0.2)  (27.0)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
proposed IDA credit.  All amounts exclude duties and handling charges on
imports. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
5.08      Civil works.  Contracts will be small and scattered
geographically and over time. Those to be financed from the credit will
not exceed US$2.5 million in aggregate value. They will be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) conducted according to
current Government practices, which are acceptable to the Bank and
include advertising in local newspapers, public bid openings, clear
evaluation criteria and award to the lowest bidder. Foreign bidders
will not be precluded from participating in LCB.
5.09      Goods.  Equipment, vehicles, drugs, contraceptives, supplies
and materials (US$15.1 million) will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) followiag Bank guidelines. Most items will be
grouped to encourage competition and bulk discounts and speed



- 29 -
procurement and the commitment of funds. The Ghana Supply Commission
will assist MOH in international and local procurement under the
project, as it has done satisfactorily under the existing project; if
necessary it will contract technical assistance in drawing up hospital
equipment specifications, with credit financing. Domestic manufacturers
will receive a margin of preference of 15Z of c.i.f. value or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation for
contracts subject to ICB. Items and groups of items estimated to cost
between US$20,000 and US$100,000 may be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures (with the same features as in the case of
civil works procurement above), up to an aggregate amount of US$1.7
million. Most of this is for the procurement of furniture, which is
available locally at competitive prices. Items and groups of items
estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of quotations invited from
at least three eligible suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0
million. Spare parts may be procured by direct purchase from the
original manufacturer where justified by the need for standardization,
up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000. Vaccines (US$2.9 million) and
cold chain and other simple medical equipment (US$500,000) may be
procured through UNICEF with due regard for eligibility, as UNICEF is
well-equipped to procure such items as part of its normal operations and
the Government is not. Prior IDA review of all contracts of US$50,000
or more will be required.
5.10      Services.  Approximately 11 person-years of consulting
services will be required in specific areas (especially institutional
development, procurement and inventory management) where skills are
unavailable within project implementing agencies. The project will rely
as much as possible on local consultants. The employment of consultants
will be in accordance with Bank guidelines. Consultdnt costs are
estimated at US$10,000 per person-month for international consultants
and US$1,000 per person-month for local consultants.
5.11      An estimated schedule of procurement actions under the
project is at Annex 5-4.
D.   Disbursements
5.12      The proposed credit is expected to be disbursed over 5 years
with a closing date of December 31, 1995. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is at Annex 5-5. The expected disbursement period is
shorter than the historical averages of 7 years for projects in Ghana
and 8 years for PHN projects in Africa. This is because items have been
chosen for IDA financing which can easily be bulked; and which will
largely be procured in the first year of project implementation, while
much of the rest will be procured in three lots intended to be
contracted annually.



- 30 -
5.13      Disbursements will commence at credit effectiveness, subject
to four disbursement conditions relating to three individual components:
(a) Disbursements on supplies of drugs can only take place once
MOH has formalized its use of competitive bidding and set up
an advisory tender committee; and once the cash and carry
system has become effective, i.e. health institutions are
paying for drug resupply from MOH stores;
(b) Disbursements on supplies of hospital equipment can only take
place once a MOH engineer responsible for the maintc?nanc-e of
such equipment in project regions is in place; and
(c) Disbursements on contraceptives for MOH can only take place
once the Government has established a national population
commission.
5.14      The proposed credit will be disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works: 1002;
(b) equipment, furniture, vehicles, drugs, vaccines,
contraceptives, supplies, materials and spare parts: 100? of
foreign expenditures and 90? of local expenditures; and
(c) consultants' services and training: 1002.
5.15      Project Accounts.  MOH, NCS and PPAG will open and maintain
separate project accounts.
5.16      Special Accounts.  To expedite project implementation two
Special Accounts, one each for MOH and PPAG, denominated in U.S. dollars
will be opened at commercial banks and maintained and operated on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocations will be
US$1,000,000 and US$100,000 respectively, representing anticipated
eligible expenditures for four months on project components managed by
each institution. The Special Accounts will be replenished monthly
provided requests exceed US$50,000. The Special Accounts will be used
inter alia for all expenditures of less than US$20,000 equivalent.
5.17      MOH will prepare withdrawal applications for its own
expenditures and those of all the NGOs except PPAG, in view of its
experience and the amounts involved. MOH will review PPAG's withdrawal
applications and submit all withdrawal applications to IDA in the
interests of efficiency. All withdrawal applications will be
accompanied by full documentation, except for contracts valued at less
than US$20,000 equivalent and all operating costs for which
disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs).
In such cases the relevant documentation will be retained by MOH and
PPAG for review by IDA supervision missions and the project auditors.
5.18      Audit.  The project accounts and special accounts, and PPAG
overall accounts, will be audited annually by independent auditors



- 31 -
acceptable to IDA. Both NCS and PPAG have external auditors.
Understandings were reached that consultation, will be held before each
annual appointment of PPAG's auditors among FrAG, IPPF and IDA in case
IDA has any concern regarding the proposed choice of auditors or the
quality of the audits. A separate opinion as to the proper use of all
amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs will be included in the auditors'
reports. Certified copies of the audited accounts will be submitted to
IDA for review within six months of the end of the fiscal year of each
agency.
5.19      Monitoring and reporting.  MOH will submit a consolidated
progress report on project implementation quarterly to IDA,
incorporating contributions by the participating NGOs. It will also
submit a special report on the progress in advancing its priorities in
health and population for the mid-term review of the project which will
take place no later than December 31, 1992. Finally, MOH will submit a
consolidated project completion report to IDA within six months of the
project closing date, incorporating contributions from the participating
NGOs. Understandings were reached that NGOs involved in family planning
will provide their annual report to IDA for each year in which they
receive IDA-financed contraceptives through MOH. IDA's plan for its own
supervision of project implementation is at Annex 5-6.
E.   Environmental Aspects
5.20      There are no special adverse environmental effects of the
proposed project. The project activities aimed at slowing population
growth and at motivating communities to health-promoting behavior, e.g.
re sanitation, are expected to result in a beneficial impact on Ghana's
environment.
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
6.01      The proiect, by supporting sector reforms and through
providing essential inputs, will both substantially increase the quality
and the quantity of health and family planning services in Ghana, and
help to build the institutional capacity for further improvements in
future. The drug supply under the project alone will finance about 7Z
of Ghana's estimated drug needs during 1991-93, benefiting about half a
million people each year at both PHC and hospital levels. The vaccines
to be supplied will provide long-term protection to the whole annual
cohort of about 700,000 children in the years 1992-94. The supply,
repair and maintenance of hospital equipment will transform and expand
hospital services in the three northern regions, which even now serve
about 300,000 patients annually and a total population of 3 million.
The population/family planning component will extend the coverage of
both MOH and PPAG services considerably, benefiting perhaps as many as
100,000 new acceptors per annum (equivalent to one-third of total
current users) by the end of the project. The extensive involvement of



- 32 -
health and population NGOs in the project will substantially increase
the reach of Ghana's services beyond what MOH alone can achieve.
6.02      The improvements in drug supply infrastructure will help to
institutionalize the capacity to maintain the improvements in the normal
availability of drugs and check on their quality. The district PHC
component will build institutional capacity in more regions of the
country to plan and implement more effective services reaching a greater
proportion of the underserved rural population. At the national level,
the MOH institution-building component will inter alia help Ghana to
plan and implement the extension of its service coverage in rural areas,
coordinate the large inflows of donor resources in the pipeline or now
being processed, and through the proposed management information system,
supervision system and prizes fund component invigorate MOH's management
and supervision of activities throughout the sector. And finally, the
NGO participation under formal arrangements with MOH provides a model
for future extension to other regions and activities.
B.   Risks
6.03      The major risk is of delay in carrying out both the priority
sector activities and the MOH project components.  This will not be for
lack of MOH commitment, judging by the effort it has put into designing
and preparing the project, without use of many local or any
international consultants. Instead the main contributing factors would
be the total demands on MOH's implementation capacity, and the rate at
which that capacity can be increased from its present low level. To
address this risk, MOH has focused an a manageable number of priorities
in health and population to advance in this period. IDA has in
agreement with MOH scaled project activities to match MOH's present and
likely implementation capacity and other commitments. The
reorganization of MOH, including the recruitment of some new managers
and changed responsibilities for some existing ones, and (if carried
through) decentralization of more authority to regions and districts,
will make MOH more efficient and spread the load. Finally, the task of
project implementation is being shared with the other beneficiaries and
the Ghana Supply Commission, a specialized public sector procurement
agency.
6.04      Lesser risks are of insufficient commitment of the Government
to (a) see through the health and population sector reforms; (b)
allocate sufficient reaources to primary health care; and/or (c) bring
about a major expansion of the family planning effort. These risks have
been addressed through: requiring high-level Government approval of MOH
priorities in health and population; requiring agreement with IDA on the
public expenditure program annually; MOH's inclusion of family planning
among its key priorities, and IDA's joining with other donors (UNFPA,
USAID) in supporting institutional strengthening and strong program
direction and expansion.



- 33 -
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  MOH to have full-time coordinator and full-time procurement
specialist for IDA-financed projects in place (para. 5.03);
(b)  Signature of the project agreements between the Government
and NCS, and the Government and PPAG (para. 5.06).
7.02      The following will be conditions of disbursement for the
relevant components:
(a) MOH formalization of competitive bidding policy and
establishment of advisory tender committee (re supply of
drugs) (paras. 3.15 and 4.07);
(b)  Effective start of the drug cash and carry scheme (re supply
of drugs) (paras. 3.15 and 4.07);
(c)  Full-time MOH engineer in place for maintenance of hospital
equipment in project regions (re supply of hospital
equipment) (para. 4.17); and
(d)  Establishment of a national population commission (re
contraceptives for MOH) (para. 3.13).
7,.03     At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
will:
(a)  advance MOH priorities in health and population according to
the timetable agreed with IDA (para. 3.12), notably;
(i)     PHC expansion program by December 31, 1991 (para.
3.03);
(ii)    expanded outreach services in all 10 regions by
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.03);
(iii)   appointment of full-time heads for DHMTs:
10 by December 31, 1991, another 15 by December 31,
1992 and another 15 by December 31, 1993 (para. 3.04);
(iv)    MOH-NGO framework agreement by June 30, 1991 (para.
3.04);
(v)     management information system design by December 31,
1991 and implementation by December 31, 1992 (para.
3.09);
(vi)    staffing norms for health facilities by September 30,
1991, manpower master plan by March 31, 1992 and
master    training program by June 30, 1992 (para.
3.10);
(b) agree annually wit- IDA the MOH recurrent budget and three-
year rolling public investment program in health (para.
3.14);



- 34 -
(c) pass US$0.8 million equivalent to the National Catholic
Secretariat and US$0.3 million equivalent to other mission
hospitals for hospital equipment, and US$2.8 million
equivalent to the Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana and
$0.1 million to other NGOs active in family planning, out of
the IDA credit as grants and on other terms and conditions
agreed with IDA for project activities (paras. 5.06 and 7.01
(b)); and
(d) set up and maintain a project coordination committee; and
employ a coordinator and a procurement specialist full-time,
and other staff as necessary, in MOH with responsibility for
the project throughout its implementation period (paras. 5.02
and 5.03); and
(e) carry out a mid-term review with IDA by December 31, 1992
(para. 3.12).
7.04      At negotiations, the Government agreed that it will cause the
National Catholic Secretariat to:
(a) designate and retain a project coordinator (para. 5.04);
(b) delegate procurement responsibility to MOH under the project
(paras. 5.03 and 5.06); and
(c) have its accounts audited per Bank guidelines (para. 5.06).
7.05      At negotiations, the Government agreed that it will cause the
Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana to:
(e) designate and retain a project coordinator (para. 5.05);
(b)  follow' Bank guidelines in respect of its procurement under
the project (para. 5.06); and
(c) have its accounts audited per Bank guidelines (para. 5.06).
7.06      At negotiations, the Government agreed that it will cause the
other mission hospitals to enter into arrangements parallel to those for
NCS, taking into account the specific requirements of the hospital
concerned.
7.07      Subject to the preceding terms and conditions, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit to the Republic of Ghana of SDR 19.5 million
(US$27.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity.
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
November 16, 1990



- 35 -
flPLIC OF  HW4A                                       AME 2-1
SbCoN  HEALTH MO POPULATION PR0JBCT
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION INDICATORS                       Page I of I
Indicator                                                        Unit                 YVee                 Value
Popu ati on
Total population                                                                          (illion)                  1990                  IS 0
Population under 16                                                                       (1iwon                    1986                   6 9
Populaticn under 6                                                                         million                  1981                   2 7
Population annuo l grorth rate                                                                 (S)                 1980-86                 a 8
Crude birtt r&s                                                                             ( /1000)                1985                    47
Total fertility rate                                                                                                198                    D.6
Contreceptia prenalenne                                                                        (6)                 1981-85                  1O
Annual number of birth                                                                       ('000)                 1986                   663
Proportion of birthe attended by treained health personnel                                     (61)                 1984                    78
Life enpectancy at birth                                                                     (Yeare)                198a                     U4
Life  np etenny f*e lI    m                                                                                         11 of melee  ()  19    107
Crude dth rat                                                                               ( /1000)                19086                   14
Meternal  ortality rate                                                                    ( /100,000)             1980-64                1074
Unde  6 mortality rat                                                                       ( /1000)                1986                  10
Annual number of infant and ehild deaths (0-4)                                               ('0OO)                                         99
Infant (under I year) wortelity rat                                                         ( /1000)                1986                    91
Health
Population with eccees to health "rnices
- total                                                                                   O                  1960-86                  80
- urban                                                  A-                                                  1980-68                   92
- rural                                                                                (3)                 1980-66                  46
Fully Iaununized
Children 1 year old:
-T T                                                                                                         1986-86                  87
-DPT                                                                                      3                  1985-6                    14
P polio                                                                                    1                 1986-as                   1S
- Macae                                                                                    )                 1968-S.                   45
Pregnant women:
- Tetanu                                                                                  (S)                108-U                     6
0RS per 100 Opisod*e  of diarrhea                                                           (litres)                196                     26
Nutrition
Anerege inde. of food production per capita                                               (1979-31.100)            1083-65                 118
Daily per capita calorie  upply ae Sof requireoente                                            (U)                  1966                    78
Infante with loe birth-weight                                                                  (S)                 1982-68                  17
Mothers pemast-feeding
3  onth                                                                                    3)                 1980-e                  1OO
onth                                                                                       )                1980-8                    70
12 oanthe                                                                                   )                198                      26
Children under finr  suffering froe sild-oderate Malnutrition                                  (5                  190O-                    23
Children under fin  suffering from  enere ealnutrition                                         (5)                 1980-66                   7
Proenlence of casting in chi ldren aged 12-2  month                                            (                   1980-8'                  28
Education
AduIte literate
- sale                                                                                                        IN 18                  64
feale                                                                                    M)                  1985                    43
Proportion of  ge group enrol led In primary school
- ml                                                                                      (3                 1986-6                   75
-femal                                                                                   3)1963-68                                   59
Proportion of grade I enrollment comleting pri'sry school                                        )                 10SJ-U                   75
Secondery-sehool enrollment ratio
-a1e                                                                                    (6)                14885-8                  26
-fesela                                                                                  (5)                1968-66                  27
Urban iation
Population urbanizad                                                                                                19686                    2
Ancrage ennual growth rate of urbsn population                                                   j                  1968                   8 9
Vater Supply
Population with ancee  to safe wter
- total                                                                                   U)                 1983-86                   5O
- urban                                                                                     )                198J-88                   72
- rural                                                                                   (                  198s-86                   47
Income Lensla
aP per cep i t                                                                               (US 6)                 1985                   880
Populatioh blo, absolute poverty lanal
- urban                                                                                  (5)                 1977-85                   5
- rural                                                                                   (3)                1977-68                   87
Public Expenditure
Central gonerent eapenditure allocated to health                                               (1)                  1968                   9.6
Central gonemnaant aependiture allocated to education                                          (3)                  1986                    18
Snurce LNICEF The Stete o the Vorld'a Children 1966
LFtICEFf Stetiatice on Children in UNICEF Assisted Countrise
Notes:          Thes  f:guree do not alwaya mtch those in other tables.
2    Figures are medians maecpt that T denotes totel*.



- 36 -                                             ANNEX 2-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                          Page I   of I
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
LEADING CAUSES OF OUTPATIENT MORBIDITY, 1987
Number
of                       Incidence
Cases                  /1000 Population
Infectious and Parasitic Diseases
Malartia                                          1,141,898                            84.0
Upper respiratory infection                         212,648                            15.6
Diarrhea                                            219,798                            16.2
Skin diseases                                       120,829                             8.9
Intestinal worms                                     99,541                             7.3
Acute eye infection                                  56,248                             4.1
Ear infection                                        24,488                             1.8
Gonorrhea                                            14,877                             1.1
MUasles                                              81,484                             2.8
Pneumonia                                            19,819                             1.6
Bilharzia                                            11,656                             0.9
Hepatitis                                            11, 06                             0.9
Infectious yaws                                       6,417                             0.6
Cholera
Pertussi                                              7,822                             0.6
Subtotal                                        1,979,404                           14656
Other Disorders
Accidents                                           108,107                             7.6
Pregnancy related complications                      87,202                             6.4
Rhumatiom and Joint pains                            41,062                             8.0
Hypertension                                         47,276                            386
Gynecological disorders                              48,628                             8.6
Anemia                                               41,688                             8.1
Disease of oral cavity                               22,476                             1.7
Malnutrition                                         14,461                             1.1
Subtotal                                         40S 79                              29.8
All other diseases                                  282,462                            20.8
Totel                                          -2;W,66,46                           196.1
Source:   MOH



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
HEALTH SYSTEM OF GHANA
A.           Overview of the Health Care System
1.   Fixed Facilities
1.          In 1990 Ghana's health system counts some 1,365 service
facilities above the community level and about 840 functioning community
clinics. The public sector has some 560 facilities, missions just over
100, and the private sector, around 700. Total bed capacity is about
18,300, with 13,400 in the public sector and 4,900 in mission
facilities. There are also some 3,500 drug outlets. The modern health
system effectively reaches around 652 of the population, probably about
100Z of the urban population and about 50? of the rural population.
2.          The public sector has two teaching hospitals, Korle Bu in
Accra (1,374 beds) and Komfo Anokye in Kumasi (893 beds). There are
also 8 regional hospitals, 39 district hospitals (for 68 districts --
mission hospitals play this role in most of the other districts), 11
specialized hospitals, and 20 other hospitals. Lower level facilities
(Level B) included 7 urban polyclinics, 8 urban and 63 rural health
centers, 233 rural health posts and 176 clinics. At the lowest level
(A) of the PHC system there were 840 functioning community clinics. The
public sector also owned all but a few of the 35 health training
institutions.  In recent years there has been almost no hospital
construction.  At lower levels the picture is little brighter.  Since
1981 almost no new health centers and only up to 5 new health posts have
been completed on average each year.  This is not surprising since the
investment budget has been dispersed in small doses over a large number
of health centers and posts under construction.
3.          The mission system consists of 41 hospitals and 64 clinics
in all regions except Greater Accra, often in remote rural locations
where there are no MOH facilities.
4.          Low maintenance budgets for many years have contributed to
the present large needs for rehabilitation of MOH facilities at all
levels, including basic systems such as electricity and water supply;
basic medical equipment; and simple items. Mission facilities are
probably in better conditions, because of bigger budgets for maintenance
and external NGO assistance, but no comprehensive compilation of their
needs has been made.
5.          The private sector had 152 hospitals and clinics in 1973
but 402 clinics by 1983. No fewer than 491 were in Accra and 14? in
Ashanti (essentially in Kumasi) in 1983. There were 116 private
maternity homes in 1973 and 278 by 1984, with exactly one-third in



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 5
Accra. By 1988 there were 359 registered private pharmacies, with 602
in Greater Accra and 24X in Ashanti (mainly in Kumasi), and 3,077
licensed chemical sellers. The rapid growth of the private sector
reflected both increased training of Ghanaian personnel and an exodus
from the public sector as real pay fell and working conditions worsened.
Unfortunately, the private sector remains highly concentrated in the
cities.
6.          There were about 18,600 beds in 1985 and now there are some
18,300, of which about 14,000 are for adults (and children) and about
4,000 for infants. Public sector facilities account for 13,400 or 73%
of the total and the missions for 4,900 or 27Z. The ratio of population
per bed was 684 in 1985 and is now 819 mainly because of population
growth. Population per general adult bed ranged from 552 in Greater
Accra to 2,218 in Upper East in 1985 and the disparities remain today.
2.   Manpower
7.          Ghana has trained fairly impressive numbers of medical
personnel, including doctors (but not specialists), nurses and
pharmacists. Thus, in principle it should enjoy relatively comfortable
ratios of population per qualified person. Unfortunately, however, the
years of economic decline have led to a mass exodus of qualified people
from the public sector and from Ghana altogether.
8.          The number of doctors registered increased from 1,011 in
1976 to 1,782 in 1985. However, only about 965 doctors are currently
working in Ghana, of whom 611 are in the public sector, around 80
(including expatriates) are in missions, and around 300 are in the
private sector. In 1987, the overall ratio of population per Ghanaian
doctor working in the public sector or the missions was 20,450. The
total number of registered nurses in Ghana has risen from about 13,000
in 1976 to 20,000 in 1985. At present they are evenly divided between
professional and auxiliary nurses. During 1985-87 MOH employed 10,000,
while missions employed about 1,000 and the private sector about 8,000.
Of MOH's 1987 staff, 8,146 were clinical nurses. Trained PHC personnel
number about 4,000 at Level B, with another 3,000 at Level A (village
level workers).
3.   Utilization of Health Services
9.          The major issue is under-utilization of services (despite
significant under-reporting) -- both outpatient and inpatient services.
10.    Outpatients.  There has been a dramatic fall in reported out-
patient attendances at MOH and NGO facilities. They peaked between 10
and 11. million per year reached in 1973 and 1976 when the geographical
coverage of health facilities was much lower than now. Attendances
dwindled dramatically to only just over 4 million in 1985-86, reviving
to nearly 5 million in 1987. Figures for the first half of 1990 show no
increase over 1987 levels. There may be more than a million unreported
outpatients; thus total attendances could be about 6 million. The
number of new treatment episodes was 2.7 million, or 57X of the total,



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 5
in 1987. Attendances per head per year have fallen from nearly 1.1 in
1976 to only about 0.32 now. Wide regional variations in attendances
per head largely reflect differences in rural coverage of health
facilities. The fall in outpatient attendances, combined with
construction of new facilities in the late 1970s, has translated into
low workloads. In 1987, health posts averaged only 10 outpatients per
day.
11.    The major reason for the fall in attendances appears to have
been the fall in standards as Ghana's economic downturn led to shortages
of drugs and other supplies and lower staff commitment in face of
falling real salaries. Also, greatly increased fees and drug charges as
from mid-1985, without significant improvements in service, appear to
have affected attendances -- temporarily in most cases, but apparently
permanently at some small and more remote lower level facilities. Since
morbidity has probably not declined significantly, the population has
probably had recourse to the private medical sector (in a few big
cities), uninformed chemical sellers, traditional practitioners, or
self-medication, or else gone without treatment.
12.    Inpatients.  Statistics on reported admissions are available
only from 1984, when they were 165,000. By 1987 they had increased to
286,000 despite a large increase in treatment fees in 1985, and there
was a further 33? increase to an annual level of 380,000 in the first
half of 1990. In 1987, 26Z of admissions were at the two teaching
hospitals, 15? at regional hospitals and 51? at district hospitals (MOH
22Z, missions 29Z). Actual admissions may have been 70,000 (25Z) higher
than reported for a total of around 355,000. With an average length of
stay of about 8 days, reported bed-occupancy across the whole health
system is averaging only about I6Z in 1990 (or possibly near 60X after
taking account of under-reporting). Within this 46? average, the
teaching hospitals and a few regional hospitals are at 80? or higher
bed-occupancy; but other regional hospitals and the district hospitals
still operate at low levels.
4.   Nongovernmental Organizations
13.    Around 300 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) operate in
Ghana, providing health, population, and nutrition services to a large
portion of the Ghanaian people. In 1987, the services were valued at
more than c2.6 billion, or about half of MOH's own recurrent
expenditures. Of this, c600 million was financed through government
subvention of health staff salaries, and at least half by foreign
donations of food, drugs and family planning inputs. Mission hospitals
now account for almost 302 of hospital beds and inpatient admissions in
Ghana. In 1987, they provided about 35? of outpatient care. The
Catholic church is by far the largest member of the Christian Health
Association of Ghana (CHAG) with 78? of CHAG hospitals and 482 of its
clinics.
14.    In general, NGOs have strengths that should be recognized and
fostered. For one thing, they appear to operate more efficiently and
creatively than do government agencies. With their access to external



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 5
funding, they bring about a net increase in the services being provided.
Further, NGOs will often work in areas in which the Government personnel
are unwilling to serve.
15.    With a few exceptions, the support, supervision, and provision
of services to the village level (Level A) in NGO programs is weak.
Also, too little thought is given to sustaining programs once the NGO
phases out its operations.
16.    Many NGOs have plans or desires to expand operations in both
geogrr  ic and program scope.  Overall, however, large expansions are
not envisioned for the immediate future, and especially not new
hospitals. The most serious constraint to this kind of expansion is
getting trained Ghanaian staff to fill the posts in the predominantly
rural mission institutions. So far, the missions have been expanding
their small primary health care programs only close to the hospitals and
clinics.
17.    Relations between the Government and the NGOs are quite cordial.
They are not, however, particularly formal or well structured. At the
national level there does not appear to be an established mechanism for
dialogue, policy discussions, and coordination of activities and
resources. But there and at the regional level the quality of
relationships depends a lot on personalities.
5.   The Private Sector
18.    Of the approximately 965 doctors in Ghana, about 300 are in
private practice. There are several hundred private maternity homes,
359 pharmacies, and 3,077 licensed chemical sellers as of 1988. On the
whole, the private healthcare sector are flourishing.
19.    Private Medical Practices.  Since 1982, there has been large-
scale emigration of doctors from Ghana. The brain drain from MOH to the
private sector has slowed or stopped; most government doctors practice
privately as well with MOH turning a blind eye. Most private doctors
work in Accra or Kumasi. Private practice in rural areas offers less
competition, but the clientele is poorer and the workday longer. There
is also professional isolation and accommodation is difficult.
Financing for clinics is difficult to come by. Total pay for doctors in
the industrial sector is significantly higher than for MOH since
companies often provide free housing, a vehicle, and free fuel.
20.    Once a doctor has started private practice there is little
effort to supervise his activities. Areas of weakness include the easy
availability of abortions and allegations of bribery for company
medical-care contracts. Current fees are variable, and there is
evidence that recommended fees are exceeded. Drugs are customarily sold
with a 502 markup.
21.    A major problem for private physicians after 1987 was the drop
of income from employees of state-owned enterprises, whose medical
expenses are now reimbursed by their employers only if incurred at



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 5
public health facilities. This, among other things, has led to an
increased interest of private physicians in the possibility of health
insurance.
22.    Private Midwives.  About 282 private midwives currently practice
in Ghana, most being retired public-sector midwives. Many are important
members of the community. This enables them to assist in a number of
public health interventions. Greater Accra and Ashanti account for 46?
of private midwives. By comparison, the Northern Region has only three
and some other regions have none. They must register with the Private
Hospitals and Maternity Homes Board, but supervision is rare. Midwives
may often lack important equipment and facilities for tests.
23.    Private midwives also suffered a significant drop in income from
losing the custom of employees of state-owned enterprises after 1987.
They would probably do better financially in rural areas where it would
be acceptable and expected of them to offer curative services. They are
more widespread in rural areas than doctors and are apparently
increasingly eager to work there. They are also keen to pursue family
planning as a new skill and can be encouraged to offer further child
health services.
24.    Private Pharmacists.  Some 408 private pharmacists practice in
Ghana, the bulk of them in Accra and Kumasi. The profitable private
pharmacy sector continues to expand. The majority of the 30 graduates
each year from the only faculty in Ghana go into the
retail/manufacturing sector, with only about 5 going into the public
sector. Almost half of all pharmacists ever produced in Ghana are
working abroad.
25.    Pharmacies (and licensed chemical sellers) in Ghana frequently
sell drugs theoretically available only on prescription over the
counter. Antibiotics may often be sold in insufficient quantities to
cure the disease but in sufficient quantity to encourage drug-resistant
microbial organisms. DANAPCO is marketing contraceptives through the
private pharmacies with well-organized training.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                          Page 1 of 1
SECOND HEALTH PND POPULATION PROJECT
OUTPATIENT ATTENDANCES, 1976-1987
Attendances
Outpatient                    Per Head
Year                   Population                 Attendance                  of Population
(million)                   (million)
1976                      10.0                         10.7                          1.07
1980                      10.7                          6.3                          0.69
1981                      11.1                          6.4                          0.49
1982                      11.6                          6.2                          0.64
1983                      11.9                          4.7                          0.39
1984                      12.8                          4.5                          0.37
1985                      12.7                          4.1                          0.32
1986                      13.2                          4.2                          0.32
1987                      18.6                          4.8                          0.36
Source: MOH; Statistical Service Board
1.   Excludes village-level contacts (possibly 1.6-2.0 million per annum)
2.   New cases (treatment episodes) were 2.7 million or 67% of the total In 1987
3.   Mission (CHAG member) outpatient attendances were 2.8 million in 1983



REPUBLIC OF GHAIA
SECON HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
REGIONAL INDICATORS OF HEALTH PROBLEMS, Z,EP#e':S AND UliLJZATION
Intfnt/        Share of      Outpatient        Rural        Population    Outpatient.        Population
Share of       Under-S        Outpatient    Attendances     Population         per             per        per Community
Population     Mortality       Morbidity       per Hed         Coverage     Hospital Bed       Doctor       Health Nurse
Region               1967          1970-87          1988            1987           1986            1965           1987             1987
()    '       /1000    '       (X)                           (
Greater Ac..ra            11.9       68/104             14.4            0.47          100.0             422          2,716             4,719
Ashantl                  17.1        70/144             22.0            0.43           42.9             744          7,838            13,606
Brong Abafo               9.8        86/123             13.1            0.44           29.6             691         14,722            11,4)0
Central                   9.2       138/209              8.6            0.30           77.3             615         16,763             6,660
Eastern                   9.6        70/138             14.6            0.83           57.7            s5s          14,677             6,086
Northern                  9.7          }                 4.2            0.09           11.0           1,173          6,697             8,604
Upper East                8.3       103/222              1.0            0.12           38.5           1,157          6,360            11,156
Upper West                3.6          )                 0.6            0.18           18.4             636          9,716            11,279
Volta                    13.7        74/133             14.3            0.24          100.0             722         11,639             8,493
Westrn                    9.2        77/151              7.4            0.38           26.9             846          9,679            11,783
TOTAL/AVERAGE           100.0        81/164            100.0            0.36           46.6             8s4          9,626             8,343        N  1>
- PM
Source: MON                                                                                                                                             I
i -n~



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MOH RECURRENT BUDGETS 1966-1990
Budgeted Expenditures            -   Shor, of Total            Nominal     Increase
Item            Expenditure                 1968      1969     1990          1968     1969     1990          1989/1988   1990/1969
(C Million)                        (M)                          (
1    Porsonal Emolu ment                   4,511    0,503    8,306           46.9    41.1      41.0              44.2        27.8
2    Travel A Transport                      161      412       623           1.8      2.6      2.6             127.6        26.9
a    General                                 837    1,345    1,737            8.4      8.6      8.6             299.1        29.1
4    Maintenance Rpoire A Rene-als           162      275       465           1.6      1.7      2.4              69.9        76.4
6    Other Current                         8,908    6,338    7,687           39.7     40.0     88.0              62.3        21.4
(of which: Drugs A Dressings)        (2000)   (8802)   (4200)         (20.3)   (20.9)   (20.7)            (66.1)      (27.2)
SUB-TOTAL ITEMS 2 - 5                 4,658    8,86    10,432           46.6     52.8     61.5              62.5        24.7
6    Subvention.                             738       966    1,502           7.5      6.1       7.4             a0.6        66.6
TOTAL RECURRENT                       9,68    15,868    20,242         100.0    100.0    100.0              61.0        27.8
MEMORANDUM ITEMS:
MON Share of 00 Recurrent Budget         5       0.9      10.7     10.9
MOH Share of Sa_  low Interest           X       9.9      12.2     12.6
MN Item 2 -   as X ofO    Recurrent    %        46.6    62.8       51.6
MOH Share of 0O0  Items 2-6              X       17.4     23.4     26.3
Real Growth of MOH Recurrent Eudget      X        7.8     28.5    -5.3
Real Growth of MOH Items 2-5             X        3.8    46.7    -7.6
PHC as 3 of MOH Recurrent                X       22.6    24.0    23.4
Source: MOH, MFEP
0'1



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-7
REPUIBC OF HNA                                    rage 1 of I
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROCRAM IN HEALTH 1966-1992
(C Mil lI on)
PIP  1968-90        PIP  19J9-91        PIP  1990-92
Number              Project/Program                    Total oJw: PHC      Total  o/w: PHC     Total o/w: PHC
MED
001      Primary He"lth Coro
Strengthening                                1,U65     Z,865     1,507     1,607     2,116     2,116
002      Inetitutional Strengthening                     657         0       8J8         0       663         0
008      MCH/Family Planning
Rehabilitatlon                               1,580     1,580     1,458     1,465     2,628     2,628
004      Nutrition Contre.
Rehabilitation                                 444       444       NO        8o6       160       160
006      Health Stationo Comp. and
Rehab. Prog.                                 1,000     1,000       969       969     1,415     1,416
006      Equlpment for Health Stations                   *C0       350     1,814     1,814     1,267     1,267
007      New Health Stations                           1,186     1,186       732       762     1,167     1,167
006     DOitrict HoaDpitaln
Rehabilitation                               1,760       176     2,4C1       246     8,996       400
009      Regional Hospital.
Rehabilitation                                 870        67       800        60     1,6S8       167
010      Teaching Hospitals
Rehabiltation                                 981        9      1,071       107     2,980       298
011      Psychiatric Hospital.
Rehabilitation                                 466         0       384         0       600         0
012      Leprosarie Rehabilitation                        62         0        94         0       221         0
O18      H-olth Training Institutions
Rehabilitation                                 460       118       650       168       916       229
014      Health Support Services
Rehabilitation                                 701         0       650         0     1,148         0
016      Roeearch Centre Into
Plant Medicine                                  sO         0        60         0       Joe         0
016      Radiotherapy Contre
Korle Bu                                       160         0
017      Solar Power Proj. for
Health Stations                                496       4ff       488       498       720       720
016      Logistic Support - iONH                         65        295       669       801     1,100       496
019    HNurosurgical Unit - Korle Bu                     120         0
020      Cardio-Thorscic Unit - Korlo Bu                 g90         0
021      New Regional Hospital Construction -                                650        O6
Cape Coact                                                                            680        68
022      Rehabilitatlon of Hospital Lifts                                    208         0       100         0
028      Revitalizetlon/Rohob - Korlo Su                                   1,820         0     1,568         0
024      Feasibility Studies                                                                      s0         0
TOTAL                        14,046     7,589    17,804     7,751    26,288    11,116
Health X of Total PIP                           8.9                 4.4                 8.7
PHC X of Total Health                                    54.0                44.8                44.0
Source:  MOH; MFEP



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-S
Pi;g ; o; 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(SM)
Original           Proportionoto Disburemont Sch1dule        Bolanco
Donor            Program        Amount        1984  1916  1986  1987  1968  1969  1990      Post 1090
lilateral
:anoda         EPI 2                    2.9                           1.1   1.2   0.3
NORRIP                  2.6        'J    9.5 0  0.6   0.6 C O6
Drugs                   1.6                                                            1.6
EPI J                   2.0                                              1.0           1.0
lormany        QIHOC  /
Phormacoutical        12.9                                 1.2   2.7   2.7            6.3
Heolth Station
Rehab
Utely                                   1.2                                                            1.2
lapon          Noguchl Inst.            2.6              6.5   0.6   06.  6.5  6.5
UCH 1                   2.1                                       1.2   1.2
Regional Medical        6.8                                       0.4   0.4
MCH 2                   2.0                                                            2.0
leth-rlands                            650               1.2   1.2   1.3   1.8
witzerland     Drugs (SOP)              1.0                    1.6
sudi Fund      New Hoelth Stations      9.2                                                           9.2
H Drugs (program aid)   1.9                                 1.9
Operations Research     1.6                                                            1.5
SAID           FP Project 66-90         7.0                    1.0   1.6   1.5   2.0   1.6
Other                   6.o                     1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
FPW 91-96              85.0                                                           8C6.
84.2        *6.   2.2   5.4   5.6   8.1  6.1  5.8             51.0
ultilateral
fDF            Hoopital Rehab Study    1.8                                  1.8
Project   18.0                                                           18.0
EC             Drugs                    1.6                                       1.6
DA             HERP                     9.8                          1.0   1.0   2.6   1.8            4.0
Health & Pop II        27.0                                                           27.6
,FPA           I 8C-89                   .0              0.6  06.6   6.6   6.6   6.6
II 96W94               10.0                                                           16.6
JICEF          88-90                   6.5                     1.4   1.4   1.8   1.2   1.2
Drugo                   1.0                                        1.0
91-96                  1060                                                           1060
lOP           Health Planning          O.6 O.8   9.8
40             84/85                   1.1        0.6   0.6
86/87                   1.1                     6.6   0.6
88/89                   1.8                                 0.6   6.7
90/91                   1.8                                             0.6            6.7
98.6        0.6   1.2   2.6   8.6   5.6   7.4   8.1           69.7
177.8        1.0   8.4   7.9   9.2  18.7  18.5   8.4          120.7
urce: World Bank estimates
Not included In totals as impleentntlon agency outside health sector.



- 47 -
REPUBLIC OF OIHANA                            AMIEX 2-9
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Long-torm Targets
Mid-
Lato
Indlcotor                   Unit          9If               1996           1995       2000
POPULATION
__________
Contraceptive  revalence rate            #               le               10            21          81
Total FP acceptors                    'to"              S65               64           S45         965
New FP acceptors                       'so"                              146           260         43a
HEALTH
1. PHC
Rurol Covisrag'.
- 6 advanced region.                     S           48-166                        86-161
- 6 underoorved reglono                  X            11-29                             U           so
Outpatient Attendonces                                                                  i s 18      20
MCH
-ANC coverage                            x               6                              6 s
-CWC coverage                            U                                1s            so
Fully Im_unized 0-2
- national                               X              (20              46             s6          so
- worst region                           X              (10              26             46         so
Facilities Investment
_____________________
- complotion                                                             6f            120        All
- rehabilitation                                                        S16            256
- low                                                                     6            8e U5
2. Hoopital Rehabilitation                                                   1996 Diatrlet (86)
=----------------------                                                 1196 Teaching   )
2000 Regional (9)
8. Drug.
Stock -outa at CMS
*I allteme                              U            56-66
=general EO list                        X                                               0
ospital ED list                        x 
Expired at CUS                           X                                6
4. Manpower
Uax. regional outpatients/
tnpetl-rto per
- doctor                                 t    16,768/1,781       12,066/80e
- clinical nurse                                  1,758/164          800/40
Rodeployment (non-technical)                                           1,600
5. Flnance
MON *hore of budget
- recurrent                              X               16               11
- copital (Inel. aid)                    X                4                4
Shares of MON budget
- PHC                                    X             22.6            28.4   1990-96:  265  p.a. real
- Travel/transport                       X              1.6              2.6
- Maintenonce etc.                       X              '.6              2.4
Drug coat recovery                       X               84                             76
NUTRITION
Children 0-5                                             5o                          46-46
- ( 68x w loht-for-oge                   X                6                            6-0
- marasmus/kwaghlorkor
Source: World Bank



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-10
__________
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECON; HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLICATIONS OF A GRADUAL DECLINE IN FERTILITY
1985           2000           2020
Population                            (m)             12.7           20.8           32.8
Population Growth Rate             (X pa.)             8.8            2.8            1.7
Number of 18-Year-Olds                             276,006        480,900        700,000
Primary Enrollment Ratio              (X)               68             96            100
Secondary Enroll ment Ratio           (X)               44             41             78
Food Production Growth             (X p...)                    6                     2.6
GNP Per Capita Growth              (X p...)                           2.1            8.2
Contraceptive Pr-valonco Rate         (X)              9.6           81.0
Total Number of FP Acceptors                       177,00         906,000
Source: World Bank



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULAUTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH PRIORITIES
SERIAL          ACTIVITY/SUB-ACTIVITY                          STARTINC         EXPECTED
NO.                                                            DATE          COMPLETION                             REMARKS
DATE
1.0    EXPANSION AND STRENOTHENINC OF PHC                                                   With special emphosis on "CN/FP, EPI, Nutrition
and Envirowm._ntal Sanitation
1.1    Strengthen District Level PHC
1.11   Appoint ful! complemnt of DHdT personnel            Jan. 1990       Dec. 1993        F/T OMHNa: 10 by Dec. 1991, 1S by Dec. 1992, 16 by Dec. lS
1.12   Train RHNT and DHMT personnel                       Jan. 1991       Dec. 1993        RHNT training : by Dec. 1992
DHHT training: by Dec. 19M, SDNS by Dec. 1998
1.13   Provide *dinistrative support personnel             Jan. 1991       Dec. 1993        Old districts by Dec. 1992, nem  districts by Dec. 1993
(biostatistics, finance., and typiset)
1.14   Provide infrastructure                              Jan. 1991       Dec. 1998        Old districts.                                                   t
DMON houses:  10 in 1991, 16 in 1992, 15 in 1993. 
DHMT offices: 16 in 1991, 14 in 1992, 14 in 1993.
1.16   Design/inatal coomunication systm  b ten            Jan. 1990       Dec. 1992        Design/trial for one district to be completed by Dec. c 990.
district and level O                                                                 Up to 1 year monitoring.
Instal in now districts by Dec. 1992.
1.16   Provide/rehabilitate equipment at health facilitlesJon. 1991        Dec. 1993        Completion of IDA- and UWFPA-finenced program  in 3 years.
1.17   Extnd outroach services                             Aug. 1990       Dec. 1991        Guidelines promulgated, mopeds imported, training underway.
1.2   Improve quality of care                              Jan. 1990       Dec. 1993        Assess 199  progress, draw up program by Jun. 1991.
-- - - -- - -------                                              Supervision system: design by Dec. 1991, implemnt by Dec. 1992
1.3    Prepre relistic program for                         Sept. 1990      Dec. 1991        Mapping of existing coverage by Jun. 1991.
expension of PHC coverage
F U
X



MINISTRY OF HEALTH PRIORITIES
SERIAL         ACTZVITY/Sll-ACTIYITY                         STARTING        EXPECTED
NO.                                                          DATE         COWMLETION                            REMARKS
DATE
2.0    POOAEENT AND DIS1RIDUTION OF SUPPLIES
2.1   Strengthe  national capecity to purchaae for MON   Sept. 1990      DOe. 1992       Managers recruited by Dec. 1990, key staff by Jun. 1991.
Training by Jun. 1 M9.
2.2   Improve prescribing prectices                      Jul. 1989       Doe. 1993       First training completed late 1989.
2.3   Rehabilitate storag  facilities (CMS.RMS)          Jan. 1969       Dec. 1992       Phase I completed by May 1990.
- _____ --------------  ----------                                      Phase II to start January 1991.
2.4   Strengthen inventory oanag _mnt and control        Jan. 1991       Dec. 1991       Format  and training program prepared by Jun. 1991.
2.S    Deeign/establiah systan of information flow       July 1990       Dec. 1991       System design and formts prepared by Jun. 1991. 
and data processing in drug monagement                                            Training program prepred by Jun. 1991.
-------------------------------------------
2.6    Design/inetal cash and carry systen               Jan. 1990       Jun. 1991       Design of system approved Nov. 1990.
to help finance drug procurement
2.7   Design/inatel system for distributing all          Aug. 1990       Doe. 1992       Syatem design by Dec. 1991.
supplies from CMS                                                                 Transport arrangements by Dec. 1992.
- --------- - ---- - ----------------------                                       Training   by  Dec.  1992.
(D X
w
o j
0I



MINISTRY Of HEALTH PRIORITIES
SERIAL          ACTIVITY/SW-ACTIVITY                          STARTING         EXPECTED
NO.                                                           DATE          COMPLETION                            REMARKS
DATE
a.0   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
3.1   Strngthen planning at HQ                            Sept. 19        Doe. 1992        Staff in post: 6 by De-. 1990.
8.2    Strengthen planning at district                   Jan. 1991       Dec. 1993
8.3   Strengthen project mnagement within MMO             Jul. 1990       Sep. 1990        2 staff trained In procurement Aug. 1990.
8.4    Strengthen MIS
8.41   Deeign/instal appropriate MIS for MON              Jan. 1990       Dec. 1992       Design of system for district level completed Jun. 1990.
Overall design by Dec. 1991.
3.42   Establish monthly meetings of the                  Apr. 1990                        To consider and act on rport. generated by MON.
Directorate of MOM                                                                 Monthly mtings strted in April 1990.
4.0   HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
__________________________
4.1   Prepre manpower plan for MOM                        Jan. 1990       Mar.  9M         Informtion on existing manpoer compiled by Mar. 1S2.
--____-_ --_-_________--__----                                                     Analysis of data to be completed by Dec. 1990.
Staffing norm prepared by Sep. 1991.
4.2   Prpare master training program                      Jan. 1991       Jun. 1992
4.3   Design package of incentives to motivate MOH staff Jan. 1990        Dec. 1993       Design completed by Jul. 1990.
especially thos  in rural areas (prizes fund)                                      Criteria for selection to be refined by Dec. 1990.
Operation to start Jan. 1991.
_________________________________________________________
Source: MOH and MFEP
012
00 l
o.~  I.



- 52 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
(Schedule 4 to Draft Development Credit Agreement)
1.        Overall responsibility for Project coordination shall be vested
in MOH. To this end, MOH shall establish and maintain a Project
Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of MOH's Director of External
Aid Coordination and Project Management and consisting of the Project
coordinators of MOH, NCS and PPAG. In order to evaluate the overall
progress of the Project, a mid-term review shall be carried out by MOH and
the Association not later than December 31, 1992.
2.        In order to facilitate the involvement of non-governmental
organizations in the carrying out of the Project and related activities in
the health sector, the Borrower shall prepare, not later than June 30,
1991, a master framework agreement acceptable to the Association governing
the relationship between MOH and non-governmental organizations in areas of
health and population activities.
3.        MOH shall continue its program of appointment full-time heads of
the District Health Management Teams and appoint ten additional heads not
later than December 31, 1991, another fifteen not later than December 31,
1992 and another fifteen not later than December 31. 1993.
4.        MOH shall expand, not later than December 31, 1991, its health
care outreach service to all regions.
5.        MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its review
and comments, not later than December 31, 1991, a program for the expansion
of the primary health care coverage.
6.        MOH shall:
(a)  design, not later than December 31, 1991, a management and
health information system; and
(b)  after having reviewed this system with the Association,
implement such a system not later than December 31, 1992, taking
into account the Association's comments.
7.        MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its review
and comments:
(a) not later than September 30, 1991, staffing norms for health
facilities;



- 53 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 2
(b) not later than March 31, 1992, a manpower master plan; and
(c) not later than June 30, 1992, a master training program for
health sector staff.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF GHANA AND
CHURCH AND OTHER NGOS FOR INTENSIFIED COOPERATION IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH AND HEALTH SERVICES IN GHANA
I.    PREAMBLE
In the 1950s the Government of Ghana signed several agree-
ments with churches to operate hospitals and clinics in the country as
their contribution towards overall national development. Over the
years, the churches have been working closely with the Ministry of
Health.
Since the inception of the PHC in 1979, the churches have
been involved in its implementation to a limited extent. The government
has therefore invited them and other NGOs to participate more actively
in the expansion and implementation of the programme. To this effect,
the government has decided to:
-     rehabilitate existing district hospitals, including church
owned or operated hospitals to enable them to function
effectively as referral hospitals for the PHC programmes;
and
-     provide the necessary infrastructure and inputs for the
DHMTs including those led by churches (NGOs).
II.   GENERAL OBJECTIVE OF THE AGREEMENT
The government of the Republic of Ghana, acting through the
Ministry of Health, has initiated this agreement with church hospitals
and other NGOs with the view of intensifying cooperating between the
government and Church hospitals and other NGOs in the development of
health, health services, and population activities in the country.
III. HEALTH SERVICES
A.    Hospitals
(a)   Equipment
The provision of hospital equipment is very essential
for the smooth running of health institutions. How-
ever, equipment in district hospitals are at least
twenty years old and this has generally affected the
efficiency of service delivery in these institutions.
As a result, the government has decided to refurbish
district hospitals with equipment. Where Church/NGOs
own or operate on an agency basis, district hospitals,



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 7
the government will be responsible for (without
charging the NGOs concerned).
(b)   Procurement and Supplies
(i)   clearing the equipment from the port;
(ii)  transporting them to the site;
(iii) installing the equipment;
(iv)  providing spares for the first ten years of
operation; and
(v)   providing the necessary recurrent inputs (e.g.
access to Ministry of Health stocks of drugs on
an exceptional basis and on cash and carry
terms, and access to Ministry of Health vaccines
on a routine basis and free).
The NGOs on the other hand are to:
(i)   see to the efficient operation of the equipment,
using technically competent staff;
(ii)  see to the maintenance of the equipment;
(iii) report periodically (half yearly) on the status
of the equipment; and
(iv)  provide the necessary personnel and training.
B.    PHC Management
Where a church-related health service of NGOs agrees
to take responsibility for providing PHC leadership in a district,
the government's responsibility concerning support include:
(i)   provision and maintenance of the necessary buildings
and equipment such as the staff accommodation for the
leader and other members of the DHMT, office accommo-
dation for DHMT with furniture and office equipment,
vehicles (though NGOs are encouraged to provide some
of them as far as possible);
(ii)  provision of funds to cover salaries and allowance in
line with prevailing budgetary policies;
(iii) training and secondment of DHMT staff not available to
the NGOs from their own sources;
(iv)  provide recurrent inputs, e.g. access to MOH stocks of
drugs on an exceptional basis and on cash and carry
terms, and access to MOH vaccines on a routine basis
and free.
Church Hospitals/NGO Obligations
DHMTs led by church hospitals/NGOs are required to meet all the
normal obligations of DHMTs including:



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 7
keep proper accounts on all incomes and expenditures;
submit regular returns to government;
periodic evaluation of the districts operated by NGOs
as a part of regular national evaluation; and
maintain equipment according to government
regulations.
C.    Other Issues
Logistic support:  the government and church health
services/NGOs will collaborate their efforts in mobilizing
resources to provide logistic support for the DHMTs; and
Accountingt Open their accounts for independent auditing by
government.
IV.   POPULATION
Population management is a crucial component of the Economic
Recovery Programme of Ghana. Due to this, the government has initiated
various population control programmes throughout the country. As part
of this initiative and to maximize the effects of these programmes, the
government of Ghana, acting through the Ministry of Health, has decided
to intensify collaboration with NGOs. Under this framework of under-
standing, the following has been agreed upon:
1.    Terms of Agreement
A.    Financial Relations with Government
1.    The government has granted and will continue
granting privileges of tax-free status of duty-
free import of commodities required for NGOs
population programmes.
2.    The government has made available to NGOs and
will continue to do so, funds from the inter-
national donors provided to Ghana for the
purpose of population activities.
B.    Collaboration with the Ministry of Health
Roles and Responsibilities
1.    The Ministry of Health is currently and will
continue to be responsible within its relation
with NGOs for:
(a)   identifying needs for family planning
services, delivery and information,
education and communication;



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 7
(b)   assisting the Ministry!of Finance and
Economic Planning in resource mobilization
for population and within this for
assisting NGOs to find additional external
support needed to fund its programmes; and
(c)   collation and feedback of information on
the progress of family planning
programmes, especially its own and those
of the NGOs.
NGOs will, however, continue to report to the
Ministry of Health and other government bodies
dealing with population as requested on the
progress of its population activities.
2.    Institutional Arrangements
Joint Consultative Meetings. There will be
semi-annual joint consultative meetings between
the Ministry of Health NGOs which will discuss
topics such as:
- programmes and projects
- budgets and work plans
- supplies and their exchange research
- research, monitoring and evaluation
- training
- contraceptive pricing, etc.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA - PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION OF GHANA
INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSHIPS AND FRAMEWORK FOR COLLABORATION
1.    National Institutions Dealing with Population
The population program is presently the responsibility of
the Ghana National Family Planning Program (GNFPP) Secretariat of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The Planned Parenthood
Association of Ghana (PPAG) services on the GNFPP Medical Advisory
Committee and the Information, Education and Communications Committee,
PPAG was also represented on the research and training committees v.bich
are not presently functions.
The Population Program Implementation Assessment Committee
created in late 1989 does not include PPAG among its membership, but the
Committee and PPAG intend to collaborate closely in the work of the
Committee as it may request.
Should a successor body be created or appointed by govern-
ment to direct the population program, the government will invite
similar PPAG representation in the new body.
The National AIDS Committee includes PPAG among its
membership.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) and PPAG in mid-1989 instituted
a series of joint consultative meetings on population activities, to be
held at least four times a year.
2.    Financial Relations with Government
(i)   PPAG does not receive funds from the government since the
government is a donor to International Planned Parenthood
Federation. Therefore the government does not intend to
grant budgetary subventions to PPAG.
(ii)  The government has granted, and intends to continue granting
to PPAG, the privileges of tax-free status and of duty-free
import of commodities required for PPAG's population
programs.
(iii) The government has made available to PPAG, and will continue
to do so from time to time, funds from international donors
provided to Ghana for purposes of population activities. It
allows and will continue to allow contributions by or
through International Planned Parenthood Federation to pass
directly to PPAG which is its affiliate. Other organiza-
tions in Ghana receiving aid funds for population activities
have contracted and may freely contract the services of PPAG
to assist them.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 7
(iv) Following the invitation of the Ministry of Health to NGOs
to play a more active role in the rapid expansion of PHC,
PPAG has plans to establish more service delivery points in
the most needy areas. The government of Ghana will provide
assistance from the Second Health and Population Project
Funds to PPAG.
Collaboration with the Ministry of Health
(a)   Roles and Responsibilities
MOH is currently responsible within its relationship with
PPAG for:
(i)   identifying needs for family planning service delivery
and information, education and communications;
(ii) assisting the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning in resource mobilization for population
activities and in aid coordination in the field of
population, and within this for assisting PPAG to find
additional external support needed to fund its
programs; and
(iii) collation and feedback of information on the progress
of family planning programs, especially its own and
those of PPAG.
MOH and PPAG will jointly determine their respective roles
and responsibilities in population activities and their
respective work plans within the national context.
PPAG will continue to report to MOH and other government
bodies dealing with population as requested on the progress
of its population activities.
(b)   Institutional Arrangements
(i)   Joint consultative meetings.  The primary objective of
these meetings is to set guidelines for providing
integrated MCH/FP services. At these meetings already
mentioned above, MOH and PPAG (and any other organiza-
tions they may agree to invite) will discuss such
topics as:
- programs and projects
- budgets and work plans
- supplies and their exchanges
- monitoring and evaluation
- research
- training
- contraceptive pricing, etc.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 7 of 7
These meetings at the national level are expected to
be started at the regional level also in due course.
(ii) Joint operation of clinics. In a number of locations
PPAG provides family planning services in MOH maternal
and child health clinics, where the latter does not
provide family planning services. MOH and PPAG will
therefore ensure that comprehensive services are
provided wherever they operate, either individually or
together.
In the course of operating these clinics, MOH and PPAG
will support each other in judicious use of all
resources in order to ensure an interrupted quality
service.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DRUG SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE
This component of the project will consist of the following
activities.
Assistance for Restructured Pharmaceutical Unit
1.        MOH will set up a unified medical supply department at Tema,
leaving MOH headquarters to deal only with policy issues. The project will
provide office and data processing equipment and a vehicle for the supply
department. The NGO Africare (USA) expects to provide $200,000 for
external and internal training program for headquarters and regional staff
in drug management and store management, books and periodicals, office
equipment and audio-visual equipment. The UN International 'Trade Center
has offered to provide a total of 24 man-months of technical assistance in
the areas of procurement and of distribution and inventory management.
There will also be a need for training including training for rational drug
use.
Rehabilitation of Medical Stores
2.        The work at the Central Medical Stores, Tema will include civil
works to improve storage and material flow, fittings and fixtures. Storage
and material handling equipment will be provided. Air conditioners will be
installed. The ten regional stores and a teaching hospital store will be
assisted under the project with rehabilitation expenditures on, for
example, provision of storage equipment and minor repairs. A small pooled
fund will provide funds for each store at up to 36 district hospitals for
procurement of minor storage equipment like racks and trolleys where
necessary.
Inventory management
3.        To improve the inventory management and control system, the
project will support procurement of data processing equipment and office
equipment at the regional level to link up with the Central Medical Stores.
It will also support training in inventory control and the use of
computers, and the hiring of a local computer programming consultant to
help design and develop in-house software packages. An allocation will
also be made to finance 24 man-months of technical assistance of a
pharmaceutical logistics expert, to advise on a total package of logistical
improvement from demand forecasting to ultimate distribution, if current
UNDP and UK-ODA consultant inputs do not sufficiently cover these subjects.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
Quality Control and Quality Assurance
4.        The project will support training of 3 staff, in analytical
procedures and techniques, to work in the basic testing laboratory being
funded under the existing project. It will fund procurement of technical
books and periodicals for that laboratory. The project will also fund the
setting up of an independent testing laboratory at the Pharmacy Department
of the University of Science and Technology (UST) at Kumasi. This
laboratory will provide support to both the private and the public sectors
on a charge basis and will be self-supporting.
Training for Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians
5.        To alleviate the current and prospective shortages, the project
will fund an expansion of pre-service training. The annual intake of
pharmacy students at the UST Pharmacy Department will be increased from 50
to 70, and that of pharmacy technicians at the Kumasi Technical Institute
by 30.
Education of Drug Prescribers
6.        The project will support the in-service training of 350
physicians, 350 medical assistants and 150 pharmacists and pharmacy
technicians in essential drug concepts, rational prescribing and related
issues.
Drug Information
7.        The project will support the setting up of a small drug
information center for tropical clinical pharmacology by providing a
complete desktop publishing unit with software and supplies.
Cash and carry system
8.        The project will provide for brief training of 500 persons in
accounts and the procedures for launching the cash and carry scheme.
Expanded Program on Immunization
9.        The project will fund cold chain equipment and spare parts to
help extend the network throughout the country, supplementing the efforts
of UNICEF and CIDA (Canada).



- 63 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MOH PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
1.        For some time now the mode of procurement of supplies for the
Ministry of Health has been a mixture of emergency purchases and
competitive bidding.
2.        This combination of procedures is not good enough.  It has not
been easy to identify actual requirements so as to prioritize purchases.
Quite apart from the fact that costs tend to be higher in the system of
purchase described above, shortages have often occurred in midstream
thereby creating embarrassments.
3.        On the realization that there is the need to streamline the
purchasing procedure so that all procurement would be by tender, i.e.
competitive bidding, the Ministry set up a Tender Committee under the
Chairmanship of the Deputy Director of Medical Services, Medical Care,
early 1990 for the procurement of medical forms and other items of
stationery, to start with.
4.        The Tender Committee has had to be reviewed so that permanent
arrangements could be made for the procurement of supplies for the Ministry
of Health.
5.        In its overall reorganization and streamlining of procurement,
the Ministry of Health is establishing a Supplies Management Department
under a qualified Director. When the Director is appointed, he will
replace the Principal Supply Officer on, and will also take over the
Secretaryship of, the advisory tender committee (see below). The Director
will manage MOH's continuing role in certain aspects of procurement;
storage; and the distribution process taking into account the necessary
recommendation by the committee and approval by the PNDC Secretary for
Health.
6.        The Ghana Supply Commission (GSC) procures supplies, basically
drugs and medical equipment, on behalf of MOH. Under its 1990 law, which
in good part reaffirms and seeks to enforce current provisions, GSC is to
procure both abroad and at home. It will have a monopoly of procurement
unless the PNDC Secretary for Finance exempts the client public sector
agency. GSC is to conduct public tenders for nrocuring any item(s) worth
over CIO million. GSC's evaluation criteria are price, quality and
delivery time, but it must explain if it does not recommend the lowest
evaluated bidder.
7.        MOH will establish an advisory tender committee with the
following functions:



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
(i) to review and clear annual consolidated requests for drugs,
general supplies and equipment;
(ii) to ensure that ad hoc procurement is restricted and that all
procurement as far as possible is done in bulk and by
competitive tendering to obtain economies of scale;
(iii)to review all urgent and ad hoc requests for procurement of
drugs, general supplies and equipment without competitive
tendering, to recommend suitable action whether immediate
procurement is necessary or not, and if considered
necessary to recommend contract award after evaluation of
limited offers.
However, no contracts will be issued (other than by GSC) before approval of
the committee's recommendation to the PNDC Secretary.
8.        The committee will consist of the following present office-
holders:
(a) Director of Medical Services or his representative - Chairman
(b) Director of Administration or his representative - Member
(c)  Representative of Ghana Supply Commission - Member
(d)  Deputy Director of Pharmaceutical Services - Member/Secretary
(e) Principal Supply Officer - Alternate Member
(f) Chief Hospital Secretary - Alternate Member
(g) Operational Assistant - Alternate Member
but this composition will be revised in the light of the MOH
reorganization.
Alternate members will attend only those meetings where the Chairman
considers their presence necessary. And again where necessary, the
Chairman may also coopt some of the user representatives.
9.        The committee will meet periodically as and when the need
arises, anu the Member/Secretary will arrange such meetings.
10.       The committee will work in close collaboration with the Ghana
Supply Commission.



- 65 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
EXPANDED PROGRAM ON IMMUNIZATION                  ANNEX 4-B
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                       Page 1 of 1
______________________
(USS m)
---------------------------------------------------------------------_
I  TOTAL    1
1991    1992    1993    I 1991-93   I           REMARKS
1.  NEEDS                                           I            I
Vaccines (incl. YF, CSM)    1.269   1.289   1.289 9      3.867   I 80% fully imunizod
l           l   with 6 antigens
Syringes A noedles          0.160   0.160   0.10  I   0.450   I
Cold chain                  0.060   0.200   0.200 0      0.460   I 60 units p.a.
Trainivg                    0.046   0.026   0.026  I   0.096
Supervision, M A E          0.060   0.026   0.026  I   0.100
Communicat!oa/social mob.    0.020   0.020   0.020  I   0.60o   I
Program Support             0.060   0.060   0.060        0.1O l
TOTAL                       1.664   1.769   1.759  I   6.172
2.  FINANCING                                       l            I
_____________                          ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
UNICEF General Resourcoe    0.850   6.860   0.860  i   1.060   | Draft Master Plan of
I           I    Operations  8/90
CIDA                        0.997                   I   0.997   I
Rotary International        0.165   0.150   0.160  |   0.450   | Polio vaccine
African Development Fund    0.60                    i   0.600     Hospital Rehab
;           I    Proj-ct 1990
MOH                         9.076   0.076   0.076  I   0.226   ! 60X noedles A syringes
IDA                                  1.600   1.060  I   2.000   I Vaccines 31.6m
l           I District vaccine stores
I           I    + Level B 80.4m
TOTAL FINANCING IN SIGHT    2.072   1.676   1.676        6 5.222   I
FINANCING AP               -0.418   0.184   0.184  I  -0.60 0
Source: World Bank



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Current Organization Chart for the Ministry of Health
PNDCUarX
for Hal
.~~~~~
mmunder'secramy~~haiiac~.                        Tri~or
Acting Dis~~~~cKw  Dmrcctorfo ofak
PDiricto NursidicalnSgices Ag  igChiefD ior
Dcpuyl Divcsor, iDepuly Dio,   _  Hospital                                Ass    to the Acting               ON
Public Health                      Medical Are        Secvtay atief lrH_
|aning        Nusing Scvisi cs |0                                               setoDvsonSc-al l
Epede hiong                                      Meialk                                                           I
.~~~~mnaHaa _                                                                                       b 
_MamnaUChid Hekbh-Evnetlc                             
Famdy Planning                                    toisc  - IRegiond 
Nouitioo            Healt Educauon                 mea 0iEo                                                        °
_ Epidemiobty                                   _    orx.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for the Minstry of Health
Ministerial
-Advisory
Secretary 
Chief
Director
Director of           Director         r  Director of            Director              Director             Director
Policy and               of            Health Statistics         of External              of                   of
Plans             Manpower              Research                 Aid               Supplies              General
Analysis          Development        Information Mgt &    Coordination             Management                and
Coordination       and Tra,  ing       Computer Support         and Project                                 Financial
Services            Management                              Administration
Policy and Plans    Manpower             Heolth Statistics        External Aid       Supplies            Cenoral Administration
Analysis            Planning                                      Coordination       Management
Coordination for
Public Health
Policy and Plans    Management           R-search                 Project            Coordination of     Finance
Analysis            Services                                      Managemnt          Procurement
Coordination for
Medical Care
Program Budgeting    Training             Information Managemnt                      Coordination of     Legal Services
and Public Relations                       Storage
Monitoring and                           Computer Support                            Coordination of
Evaluation                               Services                                    Distribution
0
General and
Financial
Administration for
Supplies Management



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Introduction
1.        The need to reorganize and decentralize the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has been recognized by most parties for some time and was a prominent
theme of the national health symposium in June 1988. Local consultants
working with a few MOH staff prepared reorganization proposals for the
Secretary of Health in 1989. The Secretary announced the new strL'cture on
August 15, 1990.
New Organization Structure ror MOH Headquarters
2.        The current and new organizational structures at MOH
headquarters are shown in Ann-xes 4-4 and 4-5 respectively.  The new
structure has at its top levels a National Health Advisory Board, a Chief
Director and six Directors. The members of the ministerial advisory board
have almost all been identified and have agreed to serve; they include
several PNDC Secretaries (sector Ministers); and a Secretary to the Board
is already on the job. The Chief Director will be selected as soon as a
list of eligible candidates is finalized, now that the applicants have been
interviewed to form a Government-wide pool; he or she may be in designated
by the end of 1990. The Secretary for Health designated his six Directors
on October 25, 1990. They are a mixture of current staff and outsiders and
are well qualified. The Secretary has formally nominated them to the
Office of the Head of the Civil Service which has confirmed that it is
processing their formal appointments. They will first draw up division
work schedules and a timetable for subsequent steps in implementing the
reorganization, then review the new organization structure and staffing
proposals and participate in the selection of staff for the remainizig
places in the new structure.
3.        The change has as a major rationale the devolution of most
operational responsibilities to the regions and districts. The functions
which MOH headquarters should continue to perform have been identified and
located within the new structure. The major emphasis will be on planning,
policy analysis, elaboration of guidelines, research, monitoring and
evaluation. The remaining operational responsibilities of headquarters
will be in the areas of procurement and supply and of aid coordination and
project management.
4.        The Policy and Plans Division has gained approval for 8 posts
including the Director. More than half of the staff are in post or about
to be appointed. MOH will be expected to provide a sector plan for health
as part of the national plan envisaged by the new National Development
Planning Commission for 1992 and onwards. It also proposes to equip
districts to develop district health plans of action in 1991 under a new
MOH initiative. District health management is currently being strengthened



under the WHO-sponsored Strengthening District Health Services initiative
which will be supported inter alia under the proposed project (Annex 4-13).
5.        The Supply Management Division will be responsible mainly for
drugs and other medical supplies. A provisional organizational structure
has been worked out. The two Deputy 'irectorc will shortly be recruited.
They will review and if necessary rev se the proposed organization
structure and recruit the other staff accordingly. This Division will have
the key responsibility of developing new systems for estimating needs for
medical supplies, drug distribution, information flows, inventory cor.trol
and management, and the installation and monitoring of the new drug cash
and carry system.
6.        The External Aid Coordination and Projett Management Division
has a major role to play in managing MOH's relationship with its many
donors, and in the implementation and monitoring of much of MOH's
investment program. The Director-designate is already on the job. A start
has been made on training staff for the project management function and
deploying them. This unit will be responsible for management of the
existing and proposed IDA-financed projects. The implementation and
monitoring arrangements for MOH's large investment program will alto be
strengthened.
7.        MOH plans to introduce a management information system which
will provide regular reports on the levels of a number of key performance
indicators. These indicators have been selected to focus attention on
health status and services and on the implementation of current policy
priorities. There will be a system of regular monitoring of performance at
national, regional and district levels with follow-up action. MOH will
also develop an effective system of supervision at all levels.
Institutional Strengthening
8.        MOH needs considerable institutional strengthening to overcome
the problems identified in para. 2.12 of the text of this report. The
reorganization offers the promise of a new start under more workable
arrangements. The project will support the implementation of the
reorganization as well as the strengthening of individual functions of MOH
within the new structures.
9.        Each of the new organization units will receive support under
the project. The support will include the services of short-term
consultants (normally up to 6 months each); the provision of office
equipment and vehicles; office supplies; and operating expenses. Details
of the assistance are in the Appendix.



REPiSLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF tHE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
I                                       I                             I                           I          I                I          I Initiol I Operotingl
I   ORGANIZATIONAL UNIT                 I         Personnel           I         Equipsnt          IFurniturel   Vehicles    I Trainingl Stocks  I Expen-e  I
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~I-  -.--- ----------I-------------I-----,  --------                      ----          ----   -----I-
I                                       lS nior   Tech Asat  Support IComputers Ordinary Multiplel           I Soloon 4-Wh.l I  (8 '000)1 (  '1000)  (1 iQQQ)
I                                       |I (rN/)   (6 a/r a)          IA Printers Copier  Copier  I (sets)  I Care   Drive  l            l         l          I
---~ ~~--    ------ -.--I-..---------- -----          I--------- --I-----I-------------.-                           --------
lNational Health Advisory Board         1                4         2 1        2        1        1 1        1 I    1         2 1      20 1        6 1       20 1
Adviser on Reorganization               I    5                     1  1                           0       1  1                |       1|         21        19
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IPolicy, Plans, Analysis, Coordination l    6            1         1          1        1                                              1s 1  l  151  21     61
Ianpower D.eloprnnt and Truining        I    6           1         ii         1        1          1       *        i          I      a01         21         a1
IlNelth Statistics, Reaerch,                  6          1         I1         4                 1         Il       2          1      a0 II                 13 1
lInfor_ation Managa-ent, Public         l                             l                           l          l                l          l         l          I
lRlationo, Computer Support Services J  l                            l                           l          l                l          l
lExternal Aid Coordination              l    6           1         I l                 1 l1                                  1 lI               2          a
and Project Mnagauent                   I                             I                           I          I                I          I         I          I
ISupplies Managament                          6          I                        1        1    1         1 I                        26 I        6 I        7 I
I                                       I                            I                            I          I                I          I         I          IC
Ieneral and Financial Administration           *                   1i1        1        1          1       1        21                           2I          S  I
lincludingLegal                         l                            l                            l          l                l          l         l          l
O0ther                                                                                                                               so III  0 I 
j        TOTAL        NUM ERS           |   44           9         9I       12         6        3 |I              8         2
I        Unit         Cost  (8)         law6/ */- l,000/ */ .301./rI    5000        1500    150001    7001 12000    22000 1             I          I 
TOTAL       COST   ( '000C)        15         54         aI       60         9       46        56s     96        44       187 |       0|         8C 5
I~~~~~~                                                                       ~ ~           ~       ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      I  I -    I  - -l===ec
I  GRAND TOTAL 1/ (C   '000)  782       I                            1                            I          I                1         I          I          1
1/  Including 15x contingency.
Source:  MOH
z



- 71 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM: INDICATORS
-------------------------------------------
AREA                 |  LEVEL    |              INDICATOR                  I FREQUENCY
MANAGEMENT                      I             I                                        i           i
___- ___                ~     ~~I     I                                       I            I
Op responsibility to Rog/Dist  i Region       i j Districts w/full-tim. DOH            i Annually  i
Rogion     I t Districts w/opending authority       I Annually  I
Region     i 9 DHMTs w/own budget                   I Annually  I
I Region       tOHMT *thly itg9  * minutts to Rog       M Monthly
! District     # OHMT mthly otgo + minutes to Rog       M Monthly   I
Community participation         i Region      i *communities w/reglsters               i Ann/Mthly |
I District   I #communities w/registers               I Ann/Mthly
i Level B      # *communities w/registers             I Ann/Mthly
Supervision                     l Region      I #/X visits made + roports written        M Monthly   I
District   l t/X visits made + ropo-to written    I Monthly
I Lovel B    I #/X visits made * reports written    I Monthly   I
PROCUREMENT/DRUGS                I            I                                        I           |
_   _                  ~ ~~~~~I       i                                       I            I
Adequate drugs esp. lovel B    I CMS          I j drugs out of stock                   I Quarterly I
CMS          X U scheduled deliveries to RMS made     Quarterly I
RMS        l # key drugs availoble/out of stock       M Monthly   l
Dist Hosp  l 9 key drugs available/out of stock       M Monthly   I
I Level B    I t key drugs avallable/out of stock       M Monthly   l
Education of prescribers        I District   I # prescribers trained                   i Annually  i
.- ~ ~~~~~I                           I                                        i           Il
SERVICES                        I             I                                        l           I
- -_                           I            I                                        I            I
Availability/distrib hith oorv I Region       I 9/U level B w/daily integrated sorv    M Monthly   I
District   I 9/U level B w/daily intograted serv    Monthly   I
l Region     I 9/U villages w/monthly outroach          M Monthly
l District   I t/X villaogs u/monthly outreach          M Monthly
Levol B    I /X villages w/monthly outroach           M Monthly
I Region       # now level B's completed              I Annual
Utilization of sorvico           Region      I # OP attendances/per head per annum  i Annually
I District   lOP attendances/per head per annum  l Annually
i Level B    i 9 OP attendances/per head per annum  I Annually
EPI                              I Region     l t children fully immunized               M Monthly
District   I j children fully imunized                M Monthly
I Level B    I 9 children fully immunized               M Monthly
MCH - Antenotal care              Regi on     i X Coverage - new cases                 I Annually
District     X U Coverage - now cases               I Annually
Level B/A  I j new cases                              M Monthly
Level B/A  I 9 *t-risk reforrod                       M Monthly



- 72 -
ANNEX 4-7
MANAGEENT INFORMATION SYSTEM: INDICATORS            Pgo  2 of 5
______________________________-----_________
MCo  - delivery                 I Region     I #/1 w/sup.rvilud delivery             I Monthly
District    #/X */suparvised delivory              I monthly
LovoB        #/X */supervised delivery               M Monthly
Rogion     i /X at-riok w/supervised delivery        Monthly
Dltrict     #/X at-rlsk w/supervised delivery    I Monthly
Levol 8    I/X at-risk w/supervlid delivery    I Monthly
Environmntal sanitation         | Region     I */I  villoae w/cocleting IPL           Monthly
District     # 0/X villages o/compNting IPL        I Monthly
Level B    I #/X villages w/comlActlng IPL           M Monthly
Reglon     | 9/X villoges w/coop5eting             | Monthly
protected water suppply
District   I/X village v/completing                  Monthly
protected water suppply           I
I Level B    I 9/X villoag   w/completing             M Monthly
i            I   protected water suppply 
Lvel 11   villaoge  lnspected monthly                M Honthly
Hospital equipment maintenance I Dist Hoop       m Jor Items not working              Monthly
IMaint Serv | 9/X scheduled saint visite made      I  onthly
Transport                       i Region       #/X 4-whoel vehicle, on road           M Monthly
I District   I #/X 4-whool vehicles on road           M Monthly
I Rogion     i /X mopeds on road                     i Monthly
District   I #/X oopeds on road                      M Monthly
Level B      9/X mopeds on road                    I Monthly
I            i                            .
FINANCE                         !            !
Sharoo of recurrent budget      I National   I PNC                                   | Annually  j
Regional   I PNC                                   I Annually
District   I PHC                                   I Annually
Travel A Transport                     A nnually
I            I   lMaintenance                        I Annually
Tighten foe collection          I Rogion       Drug feo as X of drugs volue          I Monthly
IDistrict   I Drug to   as X of drugs value           M Monthly
Level 8      Drug teo as X of drugs value          I Monthly
ji           I                                       Ij          I
MAWOIER                         I
- u                             I            i                                       I
In-servico training             I Rogion     I 9/X trained                           I Annually
I District   I /X trained                            I Annually
I            i                                       1-          1
POPULATION                      I            I                                       I           I
FP use                           R gon             now FP acceptors                   Monthly   |
District        new FP acceptors                     Monthly
I Level B      P now FP acceptors                     M Monthly
j Rogion       9  now FP acceptors at CC             i Monthly   |
District        now FP acceptore at CWC              M onthly   I
Level B 1       now FP accptors at CE              I Monthly   I
Inputs                          |ILevel B    | P methods w/com_oditles out of stock   M Monthly   |
_______                         I  __         I,,__                      _ _          I  _ _I



- 73 -
ANEX 4-7
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM: INDICATORS          Pgo i oi J
NUTRITION                         i                                                  '     I
Growth monitoring * NUT ED     i Rion      | X children 0-S weighed iMonthly
IDistrict    X  children 0-S w.ghed                IMonthly I
Level B1     N children 0- weighed                I Monthly
Region     I N welghed children gaining             Monthly
District       X wlghed children gaining          I Monthly   I
I Level S     X X weighed chi ldrin gaining          M Monthly
Source: MON



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Project Hospitals: Inda'cators
______________________________
I                                    f                   ACTIVITIE:                  I MEDICAL  STAFF   I            FINANCES
--------------------------------I --------------------------------------------- I -----------------  ------ ------
I            I           !           I  Out-       In-    major   Minor   Deli   I !                                                    I
I Hospital   I  Year    !  Be        I patient. patient.   Op.       Ops   veries   I Doctors Nurse   I Budget   Fees    Total   I
I            I           f  1990    !  1967       1967                               !                    !
---------_---------------------------------  i -!----------------
IVON     ~~~I         I           9                                              I 
IIIOH        !           f           I                                                      
I-           I           I           I                                               I                    t
I            I           I           I                                               I                    f                             I
'Yondl       11968    I         110 1   13,306    1,432                              !       2       4C                  4.6
ISaisga      I  19"    f         46  1             1,606                             1       2            !               3..           I
fBolI                    I        I  I        0        0                                                 I                             I
Iw           I           1      206 1  16,666   4,637                                I                    I                             I
lLara        I           1       42  f   4,416       684                             t                    t                             !
lolgatanga   1  1966    1       169  1  34,696    6,966                              I        3           1              11.5           I
lNavrongo     9  1966    1      100  1  22,926    3,366                              I                    1              4.6            ?
1            9           9           9                                               i                    I9_
ITOTAL       I           I      6U   1  92,001   18,679                              !        7           !             24.2            I          41
9                               ---------9--------------------------------------------- I ------------------ I---------------------
MIsI;iono    !           !           t                                              !                    ! 
!------            I                 1 !                                             t                    9
!            !           !           I                                               !                    ! 
!D_ongo      1  1986     I      120  I                                               f       2            t                             !
IJirnpn      t  1987    i       261  !  19,012                616      S61    1,090  I       3      129  !    30.9        3.3    37.0
INandon      I           f      167  1  61,145   26,131                              t
IBawku       1  1986    !       268 ! 64,711                                         I       4      139  !    43.0
i            I           !           t                                                      
?TOTAL       !           t      821  I 163,868   26,131       616      651    1,090  I       9      31P  I    73.9       3.3    37.3  !
!            !           ! ---------! ---------------------------------------  -      ------------------ !---------------------------
fURAND TOTAL  i          !   1,609  ! 266,869  43,710         616     661    1,090  I       16      316  t    73.9    27.6    37.8  i
999 ! ===== ! - -I     
Snoarce: MOII
oQz
(D
ZI 
- X
0It
,.Th



75                                      ANNEX 4-9
Page 1 ot I
*Q6.4eeeC'4p-se84 OOO.4aOONO.O.4OaO^-eoreoooeueOo.e4OeOOeOOOOO
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
N~OU~I Q .   ........................lO...................
' d      lggoncze-l      teo"40".Nooo"olo" "*o.oo               _*eOno0- o00 o0 oo000000
.1                                                                                               '0
!   ie   ZeZeewo^e......oN................_oo                       -------- ooooooooo a
Q  ,_o*NeboI -oN-e*--oN__*-oN-N-e-a^-----------------------------
:     j                                                                                                   I
a  a                  WF -.I.4pm! .                            Q .4
ra                 I                                                          . 
a a a~~~~~~j.                                                            aX
a        I  4O4W4.~~                 C4.oaIfl.eC4Po_ ^__o*4.4*4.4  q.4_.>*__.4_.. C__.__4OOOOOOOO            a
_ I       I                                                                                            - I   _ ,
..44 -                                                                        o;
'      a   "t°re Ss'esREAL#;lS;lS|tOgREt3to                                               afit3;@   



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
Introduction
1.        The equipment of most MOH hospitals has been inadequate for a
long time. Much of what exists is old and needs to be replaced; much of
the rest has fallen into disrepair. The variety of makes of equipment
makes maintenance and the provision of spare parts more complex. Existing
maintenance workshops are poorly equipped and limited. Engineers and
technicians tend to leave MOH because of poor job satisfaction and
uncompetitive pay. The result has been an inability to keep a large part
of MOH's existing hospital equipment in working order.
2.        MOH plans to create an appropriate level of engineering coverage
for all levels of the health services. It is in particular need of
organizational and technical expertise and the provision of modern workshop
equipment. It has begun implementation through a project supported by UK-
ODA. initially to train core higher-level staff and rehabilitate the
workshops at the two teaching hospitals, which will in due course support
lower-level facilities. It has outlined an eventual three-tier Hospital
Equipment Maintenance Service, with units at national, regional and
district levels. To support the project hospitals in the three
northernmost regions, it will use mobile workshops while progressively
extending its fixed bases, first to Kumasi in 1990 and then into the three
project regions. MOH has elaborated the functions, workshops, equipment
and tools, vehicles, spare parts and staff required at each level and
defined the needed training programs. Appendix 3 provides a tabular
presentation of the numbers for the build-up of the MOH service.
3.        The National Catholic Secretariat also has a Hospital
Engineering Service. The MOH bases will be coordinated with the existing
NCS service so that each base serves adjacent groups of hospitals. The NCS
Hospital Engineering Service has one larger and one smaller base in the
project regions. It appears adequately staffed and equipped to handle most
repairs and maintenance for its hospitals in the three regions, but would
receive certain small requirements under the project. NCS trains its own
staff in-service and is also working with a technical institute at
Kukurantumi to introduce a college-based curLiculum from fall 1990. MOH
and NCS will plan together how training can be coordinated.
Phased Extension of Maintenance Facilities
4.        Provision of full maintenance cover in the three regions viz:
Northern, Upper East and Upper West will therefore have to be done in four
phases spanning the period 1990 to 1993.
Phase 1: Sirce training of MOH staff by the Overseas Development
Association (ODA) has started in 1990, there is now an engineer based
in Kumasi, but recruitment of intermediate-level staff has been
delayed. Tamale does not yet have any senior staff. The existing
NCS mobile workshop is covering the NCS-operated hospitals at Jirapa,
Nandom and Damongo.



7 77 
ANNEX 4-10
Page 2 of 3
Phase 2: Starts in 1991. By this time ODA in Accra might have
trained staff to be based in Tamale (Northern Region). IDA will
finance one mobile workshop for MOH to be based in Tamale to cover
the MOH hospitals in Northern, Upper East and Upper West Regions.
There would therefore be two mobile workshops operating in the
Northern, Upper East and Upper West regions by the end of 1991.
During Phase 2. construction, refurbishment and re-equipping of a few
District Hospitals would be started. In the same period, African
Development Fund tADF) should be able to equip Accra, Kumasi and
Takoradi with mobile workshops to cover the other regions in the
Southern Sector. At least one in Kumasi will be in place. Total
mobile workshops in the health system will then be three by the end
of 1991.
Phase 3: Starts in 1992. IDA provides another mobile workshop in Wa
(Upper West) to cover Upper East and Upper West. MOH will have three
mobile workshops and NCS one bv the end of 1992.
Phase 4: Starts in 1993. By chis period Tamale Hospital should have
a full maintenance unit. All regional workshops should be in place,
i.e., Tamale, Wa and Bolgatanga (MOH - new).  At the district
hospital level, Damongo, Yendi (MOH - new) and Jirapa (NCS - new)
should also have full mu"ltenarne units. Tamale and Yendi will be
under MOH and Jirapa and Damongo under NCS.
The maintenance units will cover the project hospitals as follows:
(a)  Tamale     - (Tamale)
- Salaga
(b)  Yendi      - Yendi
(c)  Jirapa     - Jirapa
- Lawra
- Nandom
(d)  Bolgatanga - Bolgatanga
- Navrongo
(e)  Wa         -Wa
(f)  Damongo    - Damongo
- Bole
5.        While 'o01 is building up its capacity, it may need to contract
out a (diminishing) portion of the initial and subsequent maintenance work.
MOH will explore other sources of maintenance, which include NCS, the local
branch of a major international firm, manufacturers, local agents, one or
two local public sector firms which maintain their own extensive equipment
stock and may contract for extra work, and local electronics and other
firms.
Functions
6.        The functions of each of the three levels of maintenance
facility have been specified. For the kinds of hospital equipment to be
,iupplied under the project, most maintenance will eventually be done at the
hospital by personnel based there. The jobs to be performed at each
project hospital by personnel from the different levels of the system are
set out in Appendix 1.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 3 of 3
Staffing
7.        The eventual staffing of maintenance facilities in the project
regions is set out in Appendix 2. The envisaged build-up between 1990 and
1993 is shown at Appendix 3, page 2. This shows that the number of
engineers is projected to rise from 1 to 7; technologists from 1 to 8;
technicians from 6 to 25; and ar.isans from 5 to 61. Total maintenance
staffing in the project regions is thus set to rise from 13 in 1990 to 101
by the end of 1993. This is feasible provided working conditions for the
staff improve as provided for under the project, and assuming continuation
of the Government's policy of improving public sector pay, especially for
higher-skiiled categories. The corresponding training requirements have
also been set out in Appendix 3, page 3 and will be met in part under the
ODA project and in part under the proposed one.
Equipment and Supplies
8.        A standard list of equipment and tools has been prepared for
workshops at each level. Each workshop will have a modest initial stock of
spare parts to supplement those ordered with new hospital equipment.
Mobile workshops, 4-wheel drive vehicles and vans will be provided.
Work Programs
9.        There will be an initial repair exercise to reclaim much of the
presently broken-down equipment where this is worthwhile, based on the
equipment inventory already carried out by MOH. These repairs will be made
by MOH staff where possible, or contracted out to NCS or private firms in
Ghana or abroad. As MOH facilities and staffing expand, there will be a
progressive extension of both a service to deal with equipment breakdowns
and a preventive maintenance service for all equipment. MOH is currently
working out the itineraries and schedules and their implications. Most of
the work is ezpected to involve about 65 items of hospital equipment with
major implications for maintenance. MOH will set up and maintain an
inventory of the status of these major items of equipment in the project
hospitals (as the NCS service already does for NCS hospitals). As time
permits, the MOH service will also handle equipment breakdown problems of
lower-level health facilities in the project regions.



- 79 -
APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX 4-10
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Equipment Maintenance
A.   Maintenance Activities at District Level by Staff Based at This Level
1.   Regular inspections, oiling, and greasing of the following items of
equipment:
(i)       Patient Beds
(ii)      Patient Trolleys
(iii)     Delivery Table
(iv)      Sphygmomanometer
(v)       Operating Tables - oiling only
(vi)      Suction Pumps
(vii)     Operating Lights
(viii)    Sterilizers (boiling)
(ix)      Hot Air Oven
(x)       Water Stills (small)
(xi)      Analytical Balance
(xii)     Refrigerators and Air Conditioners together with
replacement of parts and re-wiring where applicable.
2.   Simple instrument curating
3.   Simple vehicle maintenance
B.   Maintenance at District Level by Staff from Regional Level
First line maintenance and repair of the following:
(i)       Centrifuge
(ii)      Autoclaves
(iii)     Blood Banks
(iv)      Dental Units
(v)       Incubators
(vi)      Anaesthetic Machines (simple ones like EMOs, Boyles)
(vii)     X-Ray Machines
(viii)    Ultrasonic Cleaners
(ix)      Stand-by Generators
C.   Maintenance of District Level Equipment by Staff from National Level
(i)       Binocular Microscopes
(ii)      Counters
(iii)     X-Ray Machines
D.   Maintenance of District Level Equipment by Staff of
Manufacturers /Suppliers
(i)       Major overhaul of Stand-by Generators
(ii)      Recalibration of Vaporizers (Anaesthetic Machines)



- 80 -           APPENDIX 2 TO ANNEX 4-10
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Staffing Requirement f6r District Hospital Maintenance Unit
(1) Artisan - Electrical/Electronics - should be able to repair minor
electrical and electronic equipment and take care of general
electrical wiring and lighting systems of the hospital. Should also
be able to help the Mechanical man to offer basic maintenance cover
for the diesel generating plan for the hospital.
(2) Artisan - Mechanical - should be able to undertake minor mechanical
repairs. Should help the Electrical man to cover the diesel
generating plant and also be able to do basic repairs of
s,laygmomanometrics and stethoscopes.
(3) Artisan - Refrigeration: He would repair refrigerators and
airconditioners. He will also cover the cold chain systems for the
PHC.
(4) Artisan - Instrument Curating: To sharpen and maintain surgical
instruments.
(5) Technicians: To be in charge of the Maintenance Unit at the District
level.
The District Maintenance Unit will also cover the various Health
Centres and Health Posts.
Staff Requirement for Regional Maintenance Unit
(1)  Biomedical           -    2 Artisans
-    1 Technician
(2)  Electrical           -    3 Artisans
-    1 Technician
(3)  Mechanical           -    3 Artisans
-    1 Plan Engineer
(4)  X-Ray                -    2 Artisan
-    1 Technician
-    1 Technologist
(5) Refrigeration/Airconditioning:
-    3 Artisans
-    1 Technician
(6) Instrument Curating:
-    1 Artisan
-    1 Technician
(7) 1 Hospital Engineer in overail charge.



- 81 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-10
______________________
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
------------------------------------------
Existing
1990    1991     1992      1993
--------------------_---------------
FACILITIES
__________
A.   Now Facilities:
______________
1.   Teaching Hospitals                               Accra
Kuma l
2.   Regional                         MOH                      Tamale     We    Bolgatang.
NCS             Tamale
S.  D3strict                          MOH                                         Yondi
NCS            Demongo                      Jireps
S.   Stock of facilities:
1.   Teaching hospital workshops (MOH)                     2        2         2         2
2.   Regional workshops (N/UW/UE)                           1       2         3         4
MOH                                                0       1          2         a
NCS                                                1        1         1         1
S.   District workshop. (N/UW/UE)                           1       1         1         8
MON                                                0       0          0         1
NCS                                                1        1         1         2
4.   Mobil, workshops (for N/UW/UE)                         1       3         4         4
MOM                                                0       2          S         a
NCS                                                1        1         1         1



- 82 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-10
Page 2 of 6
MON HOSPITAL EC.JIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
1990    1991     1992      1993
STAFF (MOH):
Engineers - total stock                              1       2         4         7
Engineero - increase In year                         1       1         2         a
Kumasi                                            1       2         2         4
Tamale                                            0       0         1         1
Wa                                                0       0         1         1
Bolgatangs                                        0       0         0         1
Tochnologiots - total stock                          1       4         7         a
Tochnologisto - Increase in yoor                             8         3         1
Kumasi                                            1       8         4         6
Tamale                                            0       1         1         1
Wa                                                0       0         1         1
Bolgotanga                                        0       0         1         1
Yondi                                             0       0         0         0
Technicians - total stock                            6      18        21        26
Technicians - increase in year                               7         8         4
Kumosi                                            4       6         8         9
Tamale                                            2       8         4         6
Ws                                                0       2         4         6
Bolgatangs                                        0       2         4         6
Yondl                                             0       0         1         1
Artisans - total stock                               6      20        86        61
Artisans - Increase In year                                 15        18        25
Kumeal                                            6      10        10        15
Tamale                                            0       6         8        10
we                                                0       2         6        10
Bolgotanga                                        0       2         6        10
Y-ndl                                             0       1         2         4
Lawra                                             0       0         2         4
Navrongo                                          0       0         2         4
Salaga                                            0       0         2         4
TOTAL STAFF - STOCK                                 13      89        68       101
_______________________________               ------------------------------------
TOTAL STAFF - INCREASE IN YEAR                              26        29        88
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -                - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -



- 83 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-10
Page 8 of 6
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
1990    1991     1992      1998     1990-93
TRAINING REQUIREMENT
(x approx. STAFF INCREASE IN YEAR)
Enginoer                                              i       1         2         8           7
Technologist                                         0        4         8         1           8
Technicion                                           0       13         8         4          26
Artisan                                               5      15        16        25          61
1990    1991     1992      1993     1990-93
TRAINING COSTS
_______-------                     Unit Cost
(' '000)
Engineer                                  6500    6500    6500      18000     19600       4S600
Technologist                              6000       0   20000      16000      6000       40000
Technician                               a800        0   46500      28000     14000       87600
Artisan                                    1000    6000   16000     16000     26000       61000
TOTAL COST                                        11500   87000     72000     68500      234000O



- 84 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-10
______________________
Page 4 of C
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
1900   1991    1902      1998    1990-93
-------_----------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT/TOOLS
Unit Cost
Regional Workshop             0 8 20000 / set     0  20000    20000    20000         6000.,
District Workshops            a I 10000 / got     0       0         0    80000       80000
Mobile Workshops              a   16000 / **t     0  82000       6000        0       46000
TOTAL COST                                        0  62000    88000    60000        138000
-----------------------------------------------..
VEHICLES
Unit Cost
Mobile Workohope,             0 8 20000 cif       0  40000    20000          0       60000
4WD                           0 8 17000 cif       0  17000    17000    17000         51000
Other (specify):
Small Suzuki van              08 7600 cif         0   7600       7600     7500       22600
TOTAL COST                                        0  64500    44500    24600        188600
-----.------------------------------------------
SPARE PARTS FOR WORKSiHOP STOCKS
-------------------------------------
MOH    Accra                                           0  20000    10000    10000         40000
-----  .Ximse                                          0  20000    10000    10000         40000
To"le                                          0  35000    10000    10000         65000
we                                             0  20000    10000    10000         40000
Solgatenga                                     0  20000    10000    10000         40000
Yendl                                          0       0    10000      5000       16000
Lawra                                          0       0    10000      6000       16000
Navrongo                                       0       0    10000       6000      16000
Salaes                                         0       0    10000      C000       16000
TOTAL COST                                        0 115000    90000    70000        276000
------------------------------------------------



- 85 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-10
__________
Pago 6 of 6
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE
------------------------------------------
MOH HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICE (FOR N/UE/UW)
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS (excluding civil woriks)
------------------------------.--------------------------
1990   1991    1992      1993
Equipment/Toole                                  0  52000    *6000    60000    18000
Vehicles                                         0  64500    44600    24600       1C500
Spare Parts                                      0 116000    90000    70000       276000
Training                                     11500  C7000    72000    68500       234000
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                        11600 $13500   242500   20S000      700600
Source: MON



- 86 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION OF GHANA
CLINIC COMPONENT
Present Situation
1.        Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) at present
operates 46 clinics. Of these 20 are owned by PPAG and 26 are operated in
collaboration with the Ministry of Health (MOH). The clinics are evenly
divided between urban and rural areas. They are normally staffed by a
well-trained family planning nurse and auxiliary staff. Some of the clinic
equipment is obsolete and some items are in short supply. Supplies of
contraceptives have been assured mainly by the International Planned
Parenthood Federation (IPPF). Their availability at the clinics has been
good until both IPPF and PPAG experienced some difficulties in 1989. The
quality and reputation of family planning services at PPAG clinics has been
good. As a result, the number of family planning acceptors recruited by
these clinics has increased from about 60.000 in 1987 to a plateau of about
90,000 at present.
Future Plans
2.        PPAG plans to strengthen its 20 owned clinics over the next
three years. Obsolete equipment will be replaced and new items provided.
Staff will be provided with refresher training. Contraceptive supplies
will be increased, with a sorting out of past logistical diffie-:Lties by
strengthened staffing at headquarters.
3.        PPAG also plans to turn over the 26 jointly-operated clinics to
MOH progressively during 1991-93. This reflects the increase in MOH's
capacity as it trains more and more staff in family planning. PPAG expects
to effect 3 transfers in 1991, 11 in 1992 and the remaining 12 in 1993.
MOH and PPAG are in consultation about the process of transfer, including
the pace, sequence and practical arrangements involved.
4.        PPAG will use the staff released by these clinic transfers to
open 26 new clinics during 1991-93 with financing under the proposed
project. The locations for the new clinics will be selected in light of
unmet need and of the future expansion plans of MOH. The premises will be
rented. The project will provide clinic equipment, furniture and
contraceptive and other supplies. The proposed credit will finance clinic
equipment and contraceptives.
5.        When a clinic is relocated it is reasonable to assume that half
of the existing clients will prefer to remain with PPAG, as the distances
to the new locations are not expected to be very great. With this nucleus
and after attracting new clients, the numbe. of clients served by the
relocated clinics is expected to reach 55,0C0 by the end of 1993, just over



- 87 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 2 of 2
half of them being new clients. Relocated clinics will serve 51Z of PPAG's
projected total clinic clientele at that time.
6.        PPAG covers about 1OZ of its recurrent costs for clinics through
sales of contraceptives at about 15? of cost. It would like to increase
its prices, in consultation with MOH and taking account of the pricing
policy of other providers.
7.        The Appendix provides a comprehensive and quantitative picture
of the build-up of PPAG's clinic activities through 1993.



-88-
SECOND HE2  ~Ii~ ~iI~iYtou p   g                     APPOHDIX TO ANNEX 4-11
PLAWD PARENTMNO  ASUSCIATION OF CIU1o
CLINIC COPOUHT
NUWMER OF CLINICS                                                                           1
PPAO (owned)                                                          29          20          29          29
Joint w/WHN                     a yeor plasout 1991-3                             a 2s        12           0
Relocated                                                                  --------______________14__________20
TOTAL                                                                 40          40          40          40
OPENINGS EACH YEAJ                                                        *           *          ll          12
CLIENTS
PPAG  (o.ned)             2g    Client. per clinic                  29W         220O        2429        2662
is 5P.O. Ingrease,
JoInt */MOH                261  Client. per calnle                  2           220         2422        2062
1P .pe. Ingresse
Reloeted elnice                Cl11    per clinic:
I wqerred1rnse                     29               j1148636
I  =  otop                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~am
PPAC (owned)                    Total clients                      4_          449         4U4O       5U240
Joint w/IM                      Tot l cli nt.                      *29W        99191       290U            9
Relocated clnics                Totel cl nt.*                          9        31                     549U
1991                                                                       91991111    Om9
3if2                                                                      119        3899
TOTAL' CLIENTS                                                      929   _   97699        97446      196144
METHOD IIX (3)
Condoms                                                                S           9          11          14
Pill*                                                                 40          is          U           *4
Foam tablet                                                           24          28          28          22
IUDO                                                                   7           7           t           6
InJectable                                                            29          29          29          29
Other                                                                  4           4           4           4
TOTAL                                                               1i           199        1in          1
CONTRACCPTIvSRSJR                                                    19         1991        1992        1998
(CLENTNr.. . CS)                                                    1999                                 - -----
Condo_                      1" /GI lent pO.                            d       2499       Uc9919      76N699
Plile                        1J cyclee/ellent P.O.                     9       14S29       969        242658
Fom tablet.                   I tubee/client p...                      9        342U       239        "69
IUDo                          1 /II ent                                9         219        1290        3294
InJectable.                   4 /eI lnt p.m. o                                  2499       169         43929
Source: nAG



- 89 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION OF GHANA
COMMUNITY BASED DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
Introduction
1.        Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) established a
community based distribution (CBD) project to improve the access of
potential acceptors to contraceptives. About 50 staff and 118 trained
community agents in seven regions supply oral and non-prescription
contraceptives to between 40,000 and 50,000 acceptors.
Future Plans
2.        PPAG now plans to expand this activity in the next few years in
two ways. Firstly, communities have expressed a desire to have their basic
health needs met, not just for family planning. PPAG therefore pians to
expand the services provided by its CBD agents to include simple first aid.
The agents will need training in a wider range of subjects. This training
will be designed and possibly executed in close consultation with HOH,
which is providing similar training to traditional birth attendants under a
national program with well-designed guidelines and training materials.
3.        Secondly, PPAG will expand the numbers of agents rapidly by
introducing the training of trainers who can in turn train large numbers of
agents. One training of trainers session each year starting in early 1991
will build a stock of 60 trainers by the end of 1993. Their training
efforts will increase the number of trained CBD agents to over 800 by the
end of 1993. These agents will come from areas selected in consultation
with MOH and other than those in which MOH will be training traditional
birth attendants. Agents will be provided educational materials as well as
contraceptives.
4.        PPAG will also train and employ supervisors, at a ratio of one
to 10 agents, to support the agents and help ensure the adequacy of
supplies and the quality of the family planning services provided by the
agents. Supervisors will receive transport (bicycles or small motorcycles,
with one 4-wheel drive per region for the most senior supervisory input) so
as to be able to visit the agents.
5.        The proposed credit will finance contraceptives, training,
supplies for the CBD agents, and means of transport for the supervisors
during the period 1991 through 1993.



- 90 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-12
Pogo 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION OF GHANA
COMMUNITY BASED DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
----------------_---------------------
I            Assumptions           1996    1991    1992    1998
_ _ -------------   ---      --I --------------------------   ------------------------------------
I.  PERSONNEL               l                              I
Trainor*                    I 
__    _    _    _   ~I                              I
TOT sessions                  i    p.a.                    i       0        2        1        1
CBD training sessions       I   7 regions x 1-2-8/r.gion/yrl       0        7       14       21
# troiners completing TOT   i  15 p..                      |       o       80       15       15
Trainor* training CBD agentel                              i       0       1s       a0       46
Agents                      i
=D_____    _        ~I                              I
PPAO staff  C8D apgnts SOY                                        s o 56   56       60       60
Independent COD agents SOY                                         e 118  1s8      248      i58
Total CBD agents SOY        I                              I    168       188      298      S08
Attrition during year       l0                                              0 l               a
# now CBO agents trained    I   7.9 trainers training      1      20     16       210      816
Total COD agents EOY        i                                     e 1e8    298     508      818
Supervisors                 I
___________          I                              I
PAo      EOY                |  10 COD agonts EOY/PA         i     19       29       50       82
SPAS    EOY                 i  10 PAc EOY/SPA; 1/rog m*     |      7        7        7        a
, wi
rr,  ACCEPTORS              |                              I
Acceptors SOY               I                               I  42096    42650   45988   64650
Home visits                 I 220 per now COD agent/full yrl   2200    11650    28100    3$656
Now acceptors                   26 X of # of home visits         650    84a8    8668    14438
iceptors EOY              |                                   42560   45988    64660   69088
..---------------------------   -------------------------------I------------------------------------



- 91 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-12
Pago 2 of 2
PLANNED PARENTHOOD ASSOCIATION OF CHANA
----------__----------------__-_-------
COMMUNITY BASED DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
1990     1991      1992      1998
-------------------.-----------_---.----------------_--------------__--------__------------------
III.   INPUTS                 l                                 l
__________________   ~I                                  I
I                                 I
(a)   Quantities          I
_________      ~~I                               I
1.   Contreceptives           I
__________________   ~I                                  I
Accoptors by method (I):    l
__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ I                                    I
Condom                     i    2 X points p.a.              i      1         12        14       16
Foam                       I    O   points p.o.                     so        so        so       o6
Pill                       i  -2 X points p.a.               i      40        a8        8S       84
Contraceptives (Quantities) I                                    i
------------------------!
Cordom                     l  106 per accoptor p.a.          I            661860   766100  1106400
Foam  (tubes)              j    6 per acceptor p.m.          I            114969   136826   172719
Pill  (cyclos)             !   13 per acceptor p.a.                       227178   256762   865367
2.   Educational materials  j 
___--- - - - - - - - -  - -  -
Manual                     j 0.6 per agent trained           1                68       106      158
Posters                    I  26 per agent trainod           I              2825      6260     7876
Flipchart                        1 per agent trained        I               106       210      815
8.   Kits                     I    1 per agent trained          1               106       210       316
.______             ~~~~~I                             I
4.   Vehicles                 j                                 I
._______________    ~I                                jI
(a) Purchase                  i                                 i
4WD                                per region                1                 4         4         0
Motorcyclo                       1 per now SPA; 8 yr life   I                 7         6         1
Bicycle                          1 per now PA; 8 yr life    1                29        21        32
(b) Running & Maintenance        I                                            W i  86000    566o6  76066
Source: PPAO



- 92 -
ANNEX 4-13
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT HEALTH tIMANAGEMENT
Operational Needs of District Health Management Teams
1.        Each district in Ghana (68 until the end of 1988, 110 since
then) has or will have a district health management team (DHMT). The
functions of the DHMT are to plan, budget for, administer, supervise,
monitor and evaluate the health services in the district, and to manage the
human, physical and financial resources required therefor, within the
constraints imposed by Ghana's centralized administrative and financial
system.
2.        All the old 68 districts had DHMTs.  Members are currently being
appointed to make up the DHMTs in all the new districts. DHMTs consist of
a core of at least five team members. The leader of nearly all teams is
the District Medical Officer of Health (DMOH). While most DMOHs are MOH
doctors, between 5 and 10 are mission hospital doctors or full-time DMOHs
provided by the missions although formally appointed by MOH. Only about 28
DMOHs are full-time with the DHMT. The remainder combine clinical duties
with DHMT leadership, which nearly always causes the latter to suffer.
HOH's policy is therefore to increase the number of full-time DMOHs.  The
other members of the DHMTs are the district public health nurse; the
district health inspector; the district communicable diseases control
officer; and the nutrition technical officer. Where the DMOH is full-time,
the doctor in charge of the district hospital also joins the DHMT. The
teams may employ, but do not include, administrative, financial and health
information staff.
3.        To be able to carry out its functions the DHHT needs certain
minimum facilities. However, most DHMTs suffer from one or more problems
in meeting their basis operational needs. A MOH inventory has revealed
major shortfalls in accommodation -- a bungalow for the DMOH and apartments
for other team members; in office provision; in office equipment and
furniture; and in means of transport and communication.
4.        Under the proposed project, the higher-priority needs for
improved accommodation and working conditions, as well as those for
communications, will be addressed. The vehicles required will be financed
out of the existing credit. Given the importance of attracting more full-
time DMOHs to the district capitals, the objective is for each of the 68
old districts to have a bungalow for a full-time DMOH and an office block
for the DHMT by the end of 1993. A total of 40 bungalows and 54 office
blocks will need to be constructed over the three-year period 1991-93. The
needs by region and the build-up by year for both houses and offices are
shown in the Appendix. In view of the substantial delays and cost overruns
hitherto associated with MOH civil works projects, which supervised by the
specialized public sector agency Architectural and Engineering Services
Corporation, this calls for new arrangements and efforts in project
supervision. Construction of the project houses will be supervised by



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-13
Page 2 of 2
private firms. The offices will be financed from the MOH development
budget. The proposed credit will finance the DMOH houses on the basis of a
standard design, and the office equipment and furniture and the domestic
furniture and appliances on the basis of standard lists of requirements.
5.        The proposed credit will also finance the installation of radio
communications between district hospitals and health institutions at level
B, starting with the underserved northern half of the country. These links
will permit provision of clinical advice on difficult cases to lower-level
institutions, and faster responses to emergencies such as the need to
transport women with life-threatening complications of pregnancy/delivery
to the hospital. They will also facilitate district health administration,
for example the ordering and flow of drugs.
Training for District Health Management Teams
6.        Nearly all of the DHMTs for the 68 *old" districts were provided
in 1986-88 with a health service management course. However, they have
found it difficult to apply this training in a resource-constrained
environment with onerous financial and administrative regulations
concerning expenditures. Starting in 1988, WHO with Bank and UK-ODA
financing has been providing workshops in problem-solving within the
existing environment (so-called phase I management development) to DHMTs,
first in Volta Region and now also in Ashanti and Brong-Ahafo, these three
being the regions where the teams are strongest and more often led by
District Medical Officers of Health (DMOHs). The training also involves
the development of a corps of Ghanaian facilitators, permitting the WHO
role to shift progressively to one of monitoring. The process has been
well received and will be extended to other regions on the basis of their
expressed interest. UK-ODA expects to provide further support, to phase I
workshops in Upper East and Upper West in 1991, and to a phase II program
in Volta Region (including further management development and training in
planning for both the regional authorities and the DHMTs). The Volta
program is on the point of approval by UK-ODA.
7.        MOH plans to extend the Phase I management development to
Eastern Region in 1991, and to Northern and another region showing interest
from 1992, with financing from the proposed credit. Also, Phase II
management development will be extended to seven regions (all those
mentioned except Volta) with financing from the proposed credit.



- 94 -
APPENIDIX TO ANNEX 4-13
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                    Page I of 2
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT HEALTH MANAGEMENT
--------------------------------------
WUSING
Bungalow to be available for a full-time DMOH in each old district by *nd-1998
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM     I   TOTAL    FINANCING  SOURCE
REGION                                1991     1992     1993    I  1991-93    Housu   Contents
Volta                                                                        1    IDA       IDA
Ashanti                                                          I5    IDA                  IDA
Brong-Ahato                                                                  a 6    IDA     IDA
Upper East                                                       I           2    IDA       IDA
Upper Weot                                                                    1    IDA     IDA
Eastern                                                                      6    IDA       IDA
Western                                                          l           6    IDA       IDA
Central                                                                      9    IDA       IDA
Northern                                                         I           6    IDA       IDA
Greater Accra                                                    I           0    IDA       IDA
TOTAL                                      10       15       15 i           40    IDA       IDA
Budget  (c A) 
House       a c 10 a 1991        100      166      173  I         438
Contonts    0 c 1.65  1991        15       26       26  I          68
Total                            116      190      199  I         504
I-- -- - - - - -- - -        -- - - - -



- 95 -
APPENDIX TO ANNEX 4-13
Page 2 of 2
SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT HEALTH MANAGEMENT
--------------------------------------
2.  DHMT OFFICES
Objectivo: DHUT In each old district to have an office block by end-l993
_ _ ________
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM     I   TOTAL    FINANCING  SOURCE
REGION                                1991     1992     1998    I  1990-93    Offices  Contents
Volta                                                            |          10   Govt    UK-ODA
Ashanti                                                          I           9    Govt      IDA
Brong-Ahafo                                                      I           7   Govt       IDA
Upper East                                                       I           4    Govt      IDA
Upper West                                                                   a 3   Govt     IDA
Eastern                                                          I           2    Govt      IDA
Western                                                          I           6   Govt       IDA
Central                                                          I           7   Govt       IDA
Northern                                                         I           6    Govt      IDA
Greater Accr                                                                  1   Govt     IDA
TOTAL                                      26       14       14  I          S4
Budg,t  (c a)
Office      0 c 16 m 1991        390      231      243  l         864
Furniture   0 $20000 1991        196      112     11 I           420
Equipment   0 S10000 1991         98      S5       657            210
Total       (current prices)     883      399      413  |        1494
Source: MOH



- 96 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PRIZES FUND
1.   Prizewinners
In 1991, there will be three sets of prizewinnerss communities
(level A) with populations between 500 and 4,999; health workers at level B
institutions; and level B institutions themselves.
In 1992, the following three groups will also be eligible:
district health management teams; health workers at district hospitals; and
district hospitals themselves.
In 1993, another three sets will be added: regional health
management teams; health workers at regional hospitals; and regional
hospitals themselves.
2.   Process for Selecting Winners
Nominations of potential prizewinners will be made as follows for the
different eligible groups:
Eligible Group                       Nominator
Community                       Level B institution head
Level B health worker           Level B institution head
Level B institution             DHKT
DHMT                            RHMT
District Hospital worker        District Hospital head
District Hospital               RHMT
RHMT                            HQ management group
Regional Hospital worker        Regional hospital head
Regional Hospital               HQ management group
Selection of prizewinners will be by committees formed at the
district, regional and national levels.
MOH proposes that the membership of the committeee involve the
relevant regional/district administration; the regional/district health
administration; representation of the house of chiefs; representation of
women's groups; and representation of NGOs.
3.   Number of Prizes
In 1991, there would be prizes for 3 communities per region, or
a total of 30. There would also be prizes for 3 health workers per Region,
or a total of 30 (regular prizes), plus 1 award for short-term training per
district, or a total of 110. Three level B institutions would receive
prizes per region, or a total of 30. Thus about 1 in 100 communities, 1 in
30 health workers and 1 in 13 institutions will receive prizes.



- 97 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 2 of 3
In 1992, the number of prizes would be as in 1991, plus prizes
for 3 district health management teams (out of 110); 3 health workers at
district hospitals per region, or a total of 30; and 3 district hospitals
(out of about 70).
In 1993, the number of prizes would be as in 1992, plus a prize
for 1 regional health management team (out of 10); 3 workers at regional or
teaching hospitals; and one regional or teaching hospital (out of 10).
4.   Criteria for Winning Prizes
The criteria to be used in 1991 for selecting prizewinne4s in
the various eligible groups will be as follows:
Communities
1.   Number of self-help projects
2.   Protected water supply (project completed in year)
3.   Weeding (ditto)
4.   Drains (ditto)
5.   Support to health workers
6.   Community registers
7.   Organized for use of health services
8.   Tracking systems
Health Workers
1.   Technically competent
2.   Service beyond call of duty
3.   Personal qualities
Level B Institutions
1.   Number of monthly team meetings w/minutes sent to DHMT
2.   2 of expected visits to communities made
3.   Days per week w/fully integrated services
4.   2 of target population w/OPV3 and measles immunizations
w/display on EPI monitoring charts
5.   Number of new family planning acceptors
Selection criteria will need to be defined by the end of 1991 for the
groups which will be newly eligible in 1992, namely district health
management teams and district hospitals. The criteria for workers at
district hospitals will be the same as those for health workers at lower
levels of the system.
Further selection criteria will need to be defined before the end of
1992 for the groups which will be newly eligible in 1993, namely regional
health management teams and regional and teaching hospitals. The criteria
for workers at regional and teaching hospitals will be the same as those
for health workers at lower levels of the system.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 3 of 3
5.   Prizes
The prizes for communities will be in the form of materials
required to initiate or complete a development project. The first prize
will have a value of c 1,500,000, the second prize a value of c 1,000,000
and the third prize a value of c 800,000.
The prizes for health workers will be of two kinds. There will
be a set of regular prizes. The first prize will be a 502 salary increase
for one year plus a television set. The second prize will be a 25Z salary
increase for one year plus a radio. The third prize will be a 102 salary
increase for one year plus a bicycle. There will also be a second kind of
prize, attendance at a short-term (2-6 weeks) training workshop abroad for
one worker per District.
The prizes for health institutions will be as follows. The first
prize will be a 252 salary increase for the whole staff for one year plus a
vehicle for the institution. The second prize will be a 102 ralary
increase for the whole staff for one year plus 2 motorcycles for the
institution. The third prize will be a 102 salary increase for the whole
staff for one year.
6.   Presentation
A national meeting will be organized in a suit bly selected town
or community at which the presentatiorLs to the national winners will be
made by the Secretary of Health.
Similar meetings will be held in regions and districts for
presentations to the winners at those levels.



- 99 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. General
1.        A Project Management Unit (PHU) will be established as an
integral part of the Division of External Aid Coordination and Project
Management in the Ministry of Health. The Director of this Division will
be Project Director. He!she will have four full time relatively senior
officials working on the project: a project manager, a procurement
specialist, a logistics specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist. These in turn will be supported by a full time
secretary/_ypist, an accounts clerk, and four National Servicemen/women who
will be responsible for following up various actions, and for additional
clerical support. In addition, there will be a memorandum of understanding
between the Ghana Supply Commission and the Ministry of Health, and
possibly also between MOH and the Architectural and Engineering Services
Corporation. Finally, there will be a local consultant budget, and
standard agreements/retainers with firms of accountants, architects and
quantity surveyors, and auditors for the annuatl audit of the project
accounts; and also a small budget to recruit short term foreign technical
personnel in key fields.
2.        The PMU will be provided with two four-wheeled vehicles, one
cross country and one small saloon car of less than 1000 cc. Also it will
be provided with three motorcycles for running around town. In addition to
regular staff salaries and allowances it will also be provided with funds
for staff overtime, staff training and travel, vehicle operation and
maintenance, office furniture and equipment, funds for
construction/reconstruction of offices, and office equipment and furniture.
The credit will finance office construction/reconstruction, office
equipment and furniture, vehicles, trainirng and technical assistance.
B. Staff Functions
3.        Project Director.  Reporting to Chief Director and PNDC
Secretary of Health on overall status and progress of the project.
Chairing the working level project implementation committee. Ensuring that
the necessary funds are provided. Ensuring that anticipated project
expenditures are reflected in the public investment program.
4.        Project Manager.  Responsible for all aspects of the day to day
running of the project. Liaising with PPAG and the Catholic health
services. Secretary to the working level project implementation committee.



- 100 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 4
P eparing withdrawal requests for submission to the Bank.  Preparing
periodi  orogress reports on the project.  Approving discretionary
expenditures under the project. Signing cheques and payment vouchers.
Arranging for overseas training and foreign and local consultants.
Facilitating Bank supervision missions. Correspondence with the Bank.
5.        Procurement Specialist.  Responsible for liaison with Ghana
Supply Commission and the newly created Division of Health Resources
Supplies Coordination in MOH. Determining of the most appropriate methods
of procurement. Preparation of specifications. Approval of bidding
documents. Advertising the bids. Participating in bid evaluation.
Obtaining where necessary the approval of the Central Tender Board, and the
Public Agreements Board. Arranging of letters of credit. Ensuring that
bid securities and performance bonds remain valid. Ensuring that
contractors are paid on time.
6.        Logistics Specialist.  Responsible for ensuring that the goods
procured with project funds reach their destination rapidly, and where
appropriate are installed and operating. He will have to liaise with the
Ghana Supply Commission on clearing goods from the port, arranging all the
necessary duty exemptions, anid with the Division of Health Resources
Supplies Coordination for the distribution to the appropriate project
sites. He will also have to liaise with the Catholic health services and
the PPAG for the receipt of goods procured by them under the project.
7.        Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.  Responsible for checking
that goods and services being provided with the project funds are used for
the purpose for which they were provided. Monitoring the extent to which
various elements of the credit agreement are being met (dated covenants,
disbursement conditions, health priorities etc.). Monitoring the extent to
which NCS and PPAG are making effective use of the resources being provided
with credit funds, and that they are providing the inputs that they are
contractually bound to provide. Monitoring the implementation of the cash
and carry scheme. Evaluatins the impact of the project on expanding
primary health care. Proposing how implementation mechanisms can be
improved.
8.        Secretary/Typist.  Normal secretarial functions for the Project
Manager and his three senior colleagues.
9.        Accounts Clerk.  Day to day accounting of operational
expenditures and petty cash.
10.       National Service Personnel.  Following up regularly all matters
of project implementation and assisting with statistical and financial
analyses and clerical duties.
11.       Consultant Accountants.  Development of accounting procedures,
maintenance of all project accounts according to the credit agreement,
preparing draft withdrawal requests, and liaising with the project
auditors.



- 101 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 4
12.       Consultant Architects and Quantity Surveyors.  To be on call for
the small amount of construction work under the project. If possible they
will be also officially appointed as consultants for this construction
work.
13.       Auditors.  For the annual audit of HOH project accounts and
those of other beneficiaries if necessary.
14.       Other Consultants.  (Foreign and Local) when and where needed.
C. Other Beneficiaries
15.       National Catholic Secretariat (NCS).  The NCS arrangements for
the project have been set out in paragraph 5.04 of the text. The NCS
Health Department, which is relatively small and stretched, has
nevertheless decided that it can designate a project coordinator from among
existing staff in view of its relatively small independent role under the
project.
16.       Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG).  PPAG expects to
employ a suitable current staff member, after conversion to contract terms,
as project coordinator. PPAG is expected to be able to provide the
coordinator with office equipment and furniture as required.
D. Memoranda of Understanding
17.       Ghana Supply Commission (GSC).  This memorandum will outline in
broad detail the procurement actions that will be carried out under the
project, and will specify the responsibilities of the GSC and the PMU in
the Ministry of Health. For example, it might be agreed that GSC would
prepare specifications for any bid within 30 days, would prepare bidding
documents within 15 days, would evaluate bids within 30 days, and would
clear goods from the port (subject to all the documents being available)
within 15 days. The maximum time that the PMU in the Ministry of Health
could take to react to each of these stages, and the type of detail they
will provide to GSC, would also be covered in the agreement.
18.       Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation (AESC).  It
is hoped that it will not be necessary to involve AESC in the
implementation of the small construction elements under the project. If it
is necessary this will be on a contract basis, with certain personnel being
provided at a fixed cost, for fixed tasks. In such a case, the credit will
finance two vehicles and office equipment for AESC.
E. Project Implementation Committees
19.       A project coordinator will be appointed for each of the major
project elements including NCS and PPAG. This person will not be the
Director or Head of the particular units, but the person who has working
level responsibility for implementation. This Committee will meet at least
once every two months, and will deal with general problems and progress of



- 102 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 4 of 4
implementation and will come out with specific proposals as to how
implementation can be speeded up. Once a year there will be a full day
higher level meeting of all the agency heads.
-   -_,    .   _            W        ME  MI         =          - _-



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJEC.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY (EXPENDITURES BY PROJECT COMPONENT)
Cedis                                            US$
Local    Foreign       Total           Local     Foreign       Total
A. Drugs
1. Drug and Vaccine Supply             0.0  2040000000.0   2040000000.0              0.0  8000000.0  6000000.0
2. Drug Intrastructure         304981385.0   600161115.0   905122500.0          896945.2  1786179.7  2662125.0
Sub-Total                         304961385.0  2640161115.0  2945122600.0          898945.2  7765179.7  8S82125.0
B. MON Institution Bldg.           75721400.0   168168600.0   231880000.0          222710.0   469290.0   682000.0
C. Hospital Equip. Supply
1. Ho.. Equip. Supply NCS        2370480.0   240433380.0   242803860.0            6972.0   707157.0   714129.0
2. Ho*. Equip.Supply MOH         8494220.0   992623920.0  1001018140.0           24983.0  2919188.0  2944171.0
____________________________________________   ------------------------------------
Sub-Total                           10864700.0  1232957300.0  1243822000.0          31965.0  3626346.0  3858300.0
D. Hosp.Equlp. Main
1. Hos.Equip. Main. NCS                0.0    17221000.0    17221000.0               0.0    50650.0    SOS60.0
2. Hosp.Equip.Main. MWH        198155060.0   273175040.0   471330100.0          582809.0   803456.0  1386266.C
Sub-Total                          196166060.0   290396040.0   488551100.0         682809.0   854106.0  1436915.0
E. Family Planning
1. MON MCH/FP                          0.0   640900000.0   640900000.0               0.0  1886000.0  185000.0
2. PPAO Clinics                 68375764.0    228107846.9   294483609.9         196222.8   670906.4    886128.3                            °
3. PPAO CBD                    18896920.0   489328963.6   878n26883.6           649108.6  1439202.8  1988311.4
Sub-Total                         253072684.0  1368336809.6  1611409493.5          744331.4  399610E,3  4739439.7
F. Primry Health Cars
1. Dist. Health Mgmt.Support    746319168.0  1299087912.0  2044407080.0         2192116.2  3820846.8  6012962.0
2. Primary Health Care Sup.    100300000.0    154700000.0   2S6000000.0         295000.0   456000.0    750000.0
Sub-Total                         846819168.0   1453787912.0  2299407080.0        2487115.2  4275846.8  6762982.0
0. Prizes Fund                    167412648.0   146006400.0   302419048.0          462978.4    426489.4    889467.8
H. Project Implementation          60692720.0   103627280.0   164220000.0          1786C8.0   304492.0   4830U0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS             1906499786.0  738033f 568.4  9286831221.4        5607352.2  21708857.2  27314209.6
Physical Contingencieo         163873208.8   602443 ?7.9   688318338.7         481980.0  1477773.9  1959753.9
Price Contingencies            442587059.9  1808192182.4  2260779242.3          252909.0  1329338.2  1582247.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS             2612960033.7  9690f86768.7  12203926800.0        8342241.3  24613969.3  3086S210.6
11/6/1990 9:50
Note:   Excludes $2.1 million in import duties and taxes, $1.5 million                                                              ( 
in handling charges on imports.                                                  >
o   '



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR (EXPENDITURES BY TYPE)
Totals Including Conti)gencies
US$
1990           1991            1992            3993           1994           Tota I
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
____________________
A. Civil Works                                0.0      1368363.3       2074228.0       1392490.8       727447.5       6662519.8
S. Equipment                                  0.0      3274247.9       1916843.3       1619632.3       233034.6       7042458.2
C. Furniture                                  0.0       14B409.0        362483.3       401760.6        321031.8       1232534.6
D. Vehicles                                   0.0       466C47.6        248263.1       186269.3        167636.9       1044106.8
E. Training                                   0.0       947178.0        980238.2       765883.1         40448.2       2733747.6
F. Technical Assistance                       0.0       236594.6        221303.5        71907.9         68682.3         975688.3
a. SupplIeS
1. Other Supplie                          0.0        204676.7       304209.7        322865.6        269492.6       1101144.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        0.0     8631767.0        6104369.1      4739699.6       1828212.9      19304096.6
II. RECURREhT COSTS
A. Medical Supplies                                                                                                                                   °
1. Drugs                                  0.0       1620800.0      1047033.0       1088369.3             0.0       3756192.3
2. Vaccines                               0.0             0.0       921389.0        967765.1        994160.9       2873296.1
S. Contraceptive*                         0.0        402612.8      1250142.1       1648918.6        736446.7      4036119.1
4. Recurrent Othor Suppl'so               0.0          1401.1          6368.9         6137.9             0.0         12897.9
Sub-Total                                     0.0      2024813.8       3223923.1      3699171.8       1729690.6      10677606.3
B. Operations A Maintenance                  0.0        100367.2         16697.6        66707.0         67722.4        230394.3
C. Personnel                                 0.0         68938.4        168631.0       211306.8        216437.3        644212.S
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        0.0       2184119.6       3399051.8      3968184.6       2002765.3      11662112.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                          0.0       8815886.4      9603410.9       8706884.1       3831029.2      30866510.6
11/6/1990  9:61
Note:   Excludes $2.1 million in import duties and taxes,  $1.5 million in
handling charges on imports.                                                                                                    X
o 0



X  Iii   rf' j    I1i X
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
-.        _    9         __ -V  a ,_a
to     t-t                                 q
E I .U  !                   s                              ;;i'
ai  aaa                    a   a       cc
t7 ,Io  I aSe2
I-s X3NI                              -  O  -



- 106 -
____       ------------------------------                         - _ANNEX                         5-4
Page  2 of 4
-   - - - - - -- - - -   -   -  -   - -   -  -   -  -   -
0       *            o     o
E 4   i    w       .          e               .        e . N    4
I-j- --1'  n^~        -~^  ------|-1-----------1
----     --    --    -    --   -       - -   - -  - -   - -  -  --
S }    @    *    pt    S                     *!8 ! s s 8         N .
jd .. .. .. , .         ...7-
,c ~~~ ~~    ,~~~    4
a   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
----   ------~     ~     ~      I    ~ 4 



..  C.                          : !
------------ -- ---- !-----  ----X--------------------
3  a  Si  is    ;sSia3                  ~I
0 n  n  n. a  *  S                                        *ei                             * 
C   S  0          a!
!               !  n  ~~n       !!                         ! n                      n       -!
3  -   ~    ~    ~   ~     --   --   ---             -   --   --    --   --
a-s XUNNV c  n.                                                         n
!     - °8         !                                                                 8Q o~. !  8  8   8!   !  o  °!
a   3aW O        M       33     M                         a..anjn       n8 
|  o  8  "  n  n ~~~~~n     A        A                          A !                          >~ Ia
j   8            o I                            ii            BI|  
!   °  °8  n  8  8 1  8  88 0  0 1  c8  o   ^  n |                        X | eE 1l g~~~~~
+           I     II                 nl                I              I nI 
o                                   a                         I, i  !           
I ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !a i    !°
!~~                                                                  ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ a   a  II_
t- xaiav
- LOT -



PROCUREMT ACTIONS
Year(s) of
Component                    Itm                    Procu(e.snt                              1991                                                1992                                              1993                                 1994
PRIM             I Applianen                         91-92- S                                               C            IM>OD                                 C             IlW                                    C         ImD                      I
RJND             I                                                                                                       I I                                                                                                  II
I Constr. Materi.I              I  91-92-93                                               C            IDWOD                                  C              OWD                                  C          I                        I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------                      _  __  _____ _--_    _------------------------------------------------------------------------_ __  _  ____- ___  ____- __- _-_-_ -_ __-____I
OlAR             I VONh;cI                       1 91-92-S1                       C                                      IOD   IC           W                                IC               DX£D                            I                         I
III                                                                                                    I                                                   I                                                 I                        I
PROJECT          I MD-OC                         I       91           e           DD                                     I--------------(--                                                                     - ----- I           O     -            I
xAEWA- I                                         l                   l
TION               Privat, firams to             IIII
supervis  constr.    1  91-92-9S    I                                               -                                                                   I         .     . . . .l
Legend:                             C             Contrsct
_____-                              0             Dl ivery
l
0s 1
" l1
41S  



- 109 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
_________________
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
_____________________________
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
_____________________________
I               I Projected    Disbursements I Proportion  Disbursed    I
I IDA Fiscal   I    (in US$ millions)          I                            I
IYear and       I----------------------------------------------------- I
I Semester      I Semester      Cumulative    I Semester    Cumulative   I
-------------------------------------------------------------------
I         (US$ million)        I     (Z)          (Z)
I 1991  1st    I           0.0           0.0  1             0            0  X
1       2nd    1           1.4           1.4  1             5            5  1
1 1992  1st    1           5.4           6.8  1            20           25  1
1       2nd    1           2.7           9.5  1            10           35  1
1 1993  1st    1           4.1          13.5  1            15           50  1
1       2nd    1           2.7          16.2  1            10           60  1
11994  1st    1            4.1          20.3  1            15           75  1
1       2nd    1           2.7          23.0  1            10           85  1
1 1995  1st    1           2.7          25.7  1            10           95  1
1       2nd    1           1.3          27.0  1             5          100  I
I               I                              I                            I



- 110 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROPOSED SUPERVISION PLAN
Staff
te               Objectives                           Staffing              Input
(SW)
1991      1.   Project launch                   Task manager                3.0
2.   Effectiveness                   Planner (Accra)             1.0
3.   Drug cash and carry             Pharmaceuticals spec.       2.0
scheme                          Population cons.            2.0
4.   Procurement                     Public health spec.         2.0
5.   Population commission           Procurement spec.           0.5
and program                     Disbursement spec.          0.5
11.0
ing 1991   1.   Review procurement               Task manager                2.0
documents                       Planner                     1.0
2.   General progress                Procurement spec.           1.0
4.0
1991      1.   Procurement                      Task manager                2.0
2.   Population comm-3sion           Planner (Accra)             1.0
and program                     Population cons.            1.0
3.   General progress                Public health spec.         2.0
6.0
TOTAL FY91      21.0
)/91            Review of procurement docs    Task manager                   2.0
Procurement spec.           1.0
1991      1.   General progress                 Task manager                2.0
Pharmaceuticals spec.       1.0
Public health spec.         2.0
5.0
1-4/92          Review of procurement docs    Task manager                  2.0
1992      1.   General progress                 Task manager                2.0
Pharmaceuticals spec.       1.0
Public health spec.         2.0
5.0
TOTAL FY92      15.0



- 1.11 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 2 of 2
Staff
Date                 Obiectives                      Staffing               Input
(SW)
6-10/92             Review of procurement docs    Task manager                  2.0
Nov 1992      1.   Mid-term review                  Task manager                 3.0
2.   Review progress on              Health policy spec.          2.0
sector priorities              Public health spec.          2.0
7.0
12/92-4/93          Review of procurement docs    Task manager                  2.0
May 1993      1.   General progress                 Task manager                 2.0
Public health spec.         2.0
4.0
TOTAL FY93       15.0
6-10/93             Review of procurement docs    Task manager                  1.0
Nov 1993      1.   General progress                 Task manager                 2.0
Public health spec.         2.0
4.0
May 1994       1.   General progress                Task manager                 2.0
Public health spec.         2.0
4.0
TOTAL FY94        9.0
Nov 1994      1.   General progress                 Task manager                2.0
Public health specialist   2.0
4.0
May 1995       1.   General progress                Task manager                 2.0
Public health specialist   2.0
4.0
TOTAL FY95        8.0
Nov 1995      1.   Final supervision                Task manager                 3.0
2.   Launch work on project          Public health spec.          2.0
completion report                                           5.0
May 1996            Review of PCR                   Task manager                 1.0
TOTAL FY96        6.0



- 112 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref.                                                            Document
No.                                                               Code
1.   World Bank, "Ghana Population, Health and Nutrition
Sector Review" (7597-GH), March 31, 1989
2.   World Bank, "Health Statistics of Ghana", May 1989
3.   B. Eghan et al., Ministry of Health Reorganization
report, June 1989                                          D43391
4.   Ministry of Health, "Drug Cash and Carry Scheme",
November 1990                                              D43395
5.   Ministry of Health, "Second Health and Population
Project", December 1989                                    D43393
6.   Set of appraisal mission documents, February 1990          D45682
7.   Detailed project cost estimates (COSTAB), November         D45683
1990
8.   Ministry of Health, standard lists of hospital             D45684
equipment, October 1990
9.   Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana, "3-Year
Plan  1991-1993", April 1990                               D43397



MAP SECTION



18RD 2277
3 BURKINA  FASO 'A                                                     °                        '°                        2
GH-ANA
-~ "°?A,40A -  7SECOND HEALTH AND
Hon         I              IEGIN                      Na<  -POPULATION PROJECT
CP,iOr     UPPER 'ET         >     °.,-    
t   REGION       z  \   J    woiro;   <       2    \        Yr\2                   Medical Stores
A    Project Hospitals: MOH
0.                                                                                        &   Project )  Hospitals:NGOs   100
_z>_ k * .. ~"~"9~      .          :°§°0|*go  )Hospital Equipment Maintenance Workshops
I _-~.ik                         * l   )  oX   \  t'-  Proposed
\\        %         NORTHERN   'a-Yo   \  |             REGION         i                          Existing
{)o_hrdw           >     >¢/          A~~~~~~~~Chumbbu  '/   ZoWo
_90       A) s_ ,b         Damonso                                                                                              90
PO >   siau-pe. be0                                           -    Primary Roads
_1- >    \   ~ *./    <          / rf;>-                       Major Secondary Roads
COTE                                                      \                                                Other Secondary Roads
/                               A SoJ l .o r bgo  L                         } \K Ra;lroads
D'IVOIRE   !                                                        ongo , YB'Ch>    Nz8>                   Region Headquarters
LJIVUII-IL                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~so *,    National Capital
80                                      /                     Chrndagomboi / j f r>                    J Ii  _   _ Region Boundaries
-8°  kP°176 i   )       .a5 o   -.-  International Boundarie
jS         (BRtG-AHAFO R t   _ 1<                                            .
6  WESTERN,'~C&UIN
7-r +                                            ANTI                                                                            7 L TOG  
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 lbioi                                  bun prwmA 7WsM* aeb'1wmonu. O
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Em 15  3*Eis EaWaV /a >virenEuWVlb  of aud \ \albE
C                                                CT
6e WESTERN    /6N 19.
_0ch A soo                  \,nkW fCOS
Jowl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 10  40 6O40  11 MIL)ETS
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tadoi -   I Iwt ~*Ff    84w SWTno 0t tbW _e r_  w  e_
eo, n ft  1dw of IN NW a" so to  _    owat  1FAV
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o " ft lw de NW Om OF ¢o                                     o  ,o m
NOVEMBER 1 9.



