Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18050
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPU]BLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR. 2193-GH)
June 23, 1998
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi
US$1  = 368 C (1991)
US$1  = 437 C (1992)
US$1  = 652 C (1993)
US$1  = 957 C (1994)
US$1  = 1200 C (1995)
US$1  = 1635 C (1996)
US$1  = 2050 C (1997)
(annual average exchange rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD          Community-based Distributor
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DHMT         District Health Management Team
HNP           Health, Nutrition, and Population
HPP          (Second) Health and Population Project
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IPPF         International Planned Parenthood Federation
MIS           Management Information System
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH          Ministry of Health
MTHS          Medium Term Health Strategy
NCS          National Catholic Secretariat
NGOs          Non-governmental Organizations
NPC           National Population Commission
PMU           Project Management Unit
POW          Program of Work
PPAG          Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:    Peter Harrold (AFC 10)
Sector Manager:      Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader:    David Peters (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPlJBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Cr. 2193-GHJ
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................                                                       i
PART I
1.    INTRODUCTION ......................................                                                      I
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND ..........................................                                               I
B. IDA's ROLE IN THE SECTOR ..........................................1 
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                               2
A. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................;                                    2
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS ..........................................                               2
C. LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS ..........................................                            3
D. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                 4
3. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ..........................................                            4
A. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................          4
B. SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS ...............................................                 6
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ...............................................                                     6
D. ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES ...............................................          7
E. ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND IDA 'S PERFORMANCE ................................................,       9
F. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME ................................................ 9
4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................... 9
A. IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ............................................................ 9
B. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................................  10
C. LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECITOR .....................................................................  10
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
APPENDIX:
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its c:ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without|
World Bank authorization.|



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTEI AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Cr. 2193-GH]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Health and Population
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 2193-Gil in the amount of SDR 19.5 million (US$27 million
equivalent) was approved on December 13, 1990 and made effective on June 18, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, two years after the originally planned closing
date. The last disbursement took place on June 5, 1998. SDR 18.9 million (US$27.4 million) had
been disbursed, with the balance of SDR 0.56 planned for cancellation.
The ICR was prepared by David Peters of the Africa Region and assisted by Betty Casely-
Hayford (AFTH3), and reviewed by Irene Xenakis (AFTH3), Helena Ribe (Sector Manager for
AFTH3), and Theresa Jones (Country Coordinator for Ghana).
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's final supervision mission in September 1997. It
is based on mission's discussions with the project staff and on materials in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the Implementation Completion Report by commenting on the draft ICR
during the April 1998 mission, and by preparing their own evaluation report of the project's
execution (see Appendix).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Cr. 2193-GH]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Second Health and Population Project (HPP) was the second IDA credit
to the health, nutrition, and population (HNE') sector in Ghana. It followed the Health and Education
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1653-GH, effective April 28, 1986), which was designed to meet some of
the emergency requirements in these sectors, beginning three years after the introduction of Ghana's
Economic Recovery Program. In an attempt: to provide a policy basis for the HPP, IDA also
conducted a comprehensive review of the HNP sector in 1988 (Report No. 7597-GH, March 31,
1989), the recommendations of which motivated its design.
2.    Project Objectives and Components. The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the
quality and coverage of health services; and (b) increase the availability and accessibility of family
planning services. The project was originally divided into six components: (a) drug supplies and
drug infrastructure rehabilitation; (b) strengtlhening the Ministry of Health (MOH); (c) regional and
district hospitals; (d) primary health care (PHC); (e) population/family planning; and (f) a prizes fund
to provide incentives to health workers and communities. As a means of improving equity, the
project emphasized PHC services in three under-served, northern regions of the country.
3.    Loan Covenants and Agreements. The effectiveness conditions for the project included the
appointment of a full-time coordinator and procurement specialist for the project. The Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) for the project also included many dated covenants, which were intended to
guide sector development. These ranged from the establishment of the management arrangements for
the project and its mid-term review date, to a requirement for a framework agreement for the MOH
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs),. Dated covenants were also outlined for the schedule
of hiring heads of district health management teams (DHMTs), plans to expand services (both
outreach and PHC services), requirements to design and implement a management and health
information system, and manpower plans (staLffing norms, a master manpower plan, and a training
program). None of the legal covenants were met on time; they were either achieved late, formally
amended, or informally ignored as other events rendered them less relevant. There were also four
conditions of disbursement intended to assist implementation of policy reforms (operation of the drug
"cash and carry" scheme; formalization of a competitive bidding policy for drugs; appointment of a
maintenance engineer; and establishment of a national population commission).
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The main project objectives were, and are still, relevant
to the development of in Ghana's HNP sector. They were also consistent with the interests of the
MOH, and were generally accepted as good public policy. However, the management information
system was quite rudimentary, and the proposed detailed project indicators were never adopted. As a
result, monitoring of project progress during supervision limited itself to the monitoring of inputs and
infrequent measurements of health and population status. It is thus difficult to establish a link
between the project intentions, performance of the health system, and the impact on people's health.



IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The project was successful in
achieving its objectives in the narrow sense of contributing to improved access to, and quality of,
health and family planning services. Many of the institutional and sector reform expectations of the
project were made despite the design of the HPP. Most of the project-supported institutional reform
initiatives were either marginalized, or they tended to detract from the efforts being made by the
MOH. Yet the project played an important role in supporting the continued decentralization of health
systems based on DHMTs. The sustainability of the health program that emerged during the HPP is
likely, since the follow-up operation abandoned the traditional project approach, and became an
integral part of Ghana's health sector. A comprehensive health policy and an operational framework
has been established, concepts that the project had promoted, but was only able to support in limited
ways. Borrower commitment and ownership of its health sector program is very high, and has
received increased financial resources from the government and the support of a wide range of
donors and other health partners. The sector operational plans are comprehensive, and appropriately
address questions of institutional effectiveness, technical and financial viability, and local
participation.
6.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total cost of the project was
estimated at appraisal to be US$34.4 million with the government contributing US$7 million, IDA
providing US$27 million, and the International Planned Parenthood Federation, Planned Parenthood
Association of Ghana, and the National Catholic Secretariat combining for US$0.4 million. The
project was closed on December 31, 1997. Government contributed US$1.5 million directly to the
project, and has assumed the ongoing operational costs. Total disbursements of the credit at project
closure was SDR 18.9 million (US$27.4 million equivalent); an outstanding balance of SDR 0.56
million is scheduled for cancellation.
7.    Implementation Schedule. Preparation, Negotiations, Signing, and Loan Effectiveness
followed a typical schedule for Ghana. However, implementation was moribund during the first two
years of the project life, as effectiveness and disbursement conditions were not met, and the project
management unit (PMU) was staffed by consultants taken from outside the MOH. Implementation
began when the PMU was moved into the mainstream of the MOH in late 1992, using MOH staff. A
mid-tern review of the project was conducted in June 1994, and brought in key actors of the sector to
re-focus the project. Implementation and disbursement then accelerated rapidly. Because of the
delay in project take-off, two one-year extensions were required to complete implementation.
8.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Project achievements were
constrained by a number of factors. The more significant factors include:
(a)    a traditional project design which was over-compartmentalized and inflexible, and
which contributed to further fragmentation of the health sector;
(b)   an initial lack of acceptance by the MOH of both the PMU and the project, which
resulted in slow project implementation and little success in sectoral reforms through
the project;
(c)    over use of conditionalities;
(d)    unstable management of key NGOs in the project; and
ii



(e)    poor supervision of civil works.
9.    Assessment of the Borrower's ani IDA's Performance. The Borrower's performance
was, on the whole, satisfactory. After the initial slow years, the Minister of Health incorporated the
project into the MOH, with the MOH team resurrecting implementation of the project. The overall
performance of IDA was satisfactory. Its iclentification of the project reflected the sector priorities at
the time. However, IDA took part in the project design which "locked-in" the MOH through overly
specified implementation details, used conditionalities in a way that became inappropriate. The
project further fragmented the health system despite good efforts by IDA to collaborate with other
donors. During implementation, IDA initially worked within the constraints of the project design, but
increasingly made efforts to solve implementation problems flexibly, explore alternatives, and
support project management. The use of the mid-term review was particularly helpful in this project.
10.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Second Health and Population Project produced
satisfactory results. The project helped to support major health sector reforms in policy and health
systems development, institutional change, and improving services. Though limitations in access to,
and quality of, health and family planning services remains an ongoing concern, the project
contributed to improvements in these areas, particularly in under-served poor northern regions.
Overall, utilization of health services and contraceptive prevalence are steadily increasing.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
I1.   Key lessons learned from the project experience are summarized below:
(a)    Ensuring ownership of the project is critical to its success. In this case, it meant
placing the implementation unit within the MOH.
(b)    Conditionalities can be used to change policies, such as cost-recovery. However,
changing policy does not necessarily assure that policies are well implemented. In
some cases, the result may be counterproductive. The cost-recovery policies initially
had significant negative effects on utilization, and there were no mechanisms
established to monitor its effects or make changes in its application.
(c)    Conditionalities that were time-linked several years in advance soon became
outdated, and became more of an obstruction to the dialogue within the Ministry than
a means of facilitating change. Nonetheless, they did serve to bring health sector
concerns to the attention of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and other central
agencies.
(d)   In a highly fragmented health. system with multiple funding sources, adding another
project serves to create duplication and further dissipate energies of the MOH.
Particular attention is needed to focus on the main reform agenda for the sector,
which in the Ghana case meant giving up a traditional project approach.
(e)    Supervision of civil works in the Ghana health sector needs to change. Simply hiring
consultant architects and engineers does not ensure adequate supervision.
(f)    Working in partnership with the MOH, other donor agencies, and NGOs is critical to
more effective health systems in an environment like Ghana's.
iii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUEBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Cr. 2193-GH]
PART I: PROJECT IMP?LEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. INTRODUCTION
A.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    Of all African countries, Ghana has had one of the longest relationships with the Bank. For
years, Ghana was held up as a model of economic reform and adjustment for others to follow. Its
bold economic reform program launched in 1983, laid the basis for 15 years of continuous economic
growth. The Bank's performance indicators continue to rank Ghana among the higher performers in
Africa, although Ghana's ranking in terms of macroeconomic management performance slipped
badly in the 1990s. Upon receiving a second electoral mandate in December 1996, government
restored fiscal discipline. The economy has miade a recovery, and is now growing at a rate of about 5
percent per year, with inflation dropping from 71 percent at the end of 1995 to 21 percent in end
1997. Nonetheless, there remains a high level of poverty, with an average per capita GDP of
US$410, and over 31 percent of the population living below the poverty line.
1.2   In the health sector, Ghana has made remarkable achievements in the last decade, particularly
in comparison with the rest of Africa. Health and population outcome and service provision
indicators are better in Ghana than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (for example, infant mortality
rate is 66 deaths per 1,000 live births; total fertility rate is 5.5 children), with mortality trends
improving at a faster pace. Although fertility iis declining and contraceptive use is increasing,
population growth is still very high (estimated at 2.8 percent), and there are large unmet
contraception needs. This picture describes a nation at the critical turning point in the demographic
transition. Within Ghana, however, there are large regional discrepancies in health and fertility
status. The Northern, Upper East and Upper Wiest Regions have pre-transitional indicators, with
nearly double the mortality and fertility indicaitors of the Regions in the south.
B.    IDA's ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.3   IDA's first involvement in the sector was the 1986 Health and Education Rehabilitation
Project (CR. 1653-GH). This US$15 million I]DA credit provided emergency support for building
and hardware purchases in the two sectors as part of the Economic Recovery Program, yet was
implemented slowly due to limited involvement of senior MOH staff and the scattered activities of
the project. In the sector analysis and identification stages of the HPP, IDA engaged discussion with
a large group in the MOH and with a wide numrber of key partners in the sector on health priorities.
With the HPP, IDA became one of the larger financiers of the health sector in Ghana (there were 14
1



other significant health donors in Ghana at the time). During the early years of the HPP, much of
IDA involvement in the sector involved discussion on credit conditionalities, and on procurement for
hardware aspects of the project. In later years of the project, IDA became more involved in working
with the MOH to help it undertake its institutional reforms. However, to do this, IDA needed to
recognize and lessen the burdens created by the HPP and other externally funded projects on the
MOH, and adapt a sector-wide approach. This enabled government to articulate its vision for the
health sector and the role of its partners, requiring IDA to ensure that its efforts were more fully
consistent with this vision in order to meet sector needs. IDA played a role in supporting the MOH
by changing its behavior and encouraging change in other partners to use a common policy and
operational framework, and to develop and use the MOH implementation systems. As a result, IDA
became less involved in concerns about project management, and had a greater role in discussions
over sector policy, financing, resource allocation, and monitoring of the sector.
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1    The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the quality and coverage of health services;
and (b) increase the availability and accessibility of family planning services. It was expected that
the project would help bring about incremental changes in service coverage and quality, which would
need continued attention beyond the scope of the project. The project was designed to address
inequity by emphasizing PHC services in three under-served, northern regions of the country. The
project also intended to support the implementation of other government sector priorities, involving
policy, institutional and program changes, and improved public expenditure. Although specific
targets were described at appraisal, only a set of targets for procurement activities, and the schedule
of expected institutional changes were actually monitored.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
2.2   The project was originally divided into six parts:
(a)    Drug supplies and drug infrastructure rehabilitation. This component included the
purchase of drugs and vaccines, along with rehabilitation of medical stores,
equipment, training, and technical assistance to strengthen the supply system.
(b)    Strengthening the MOH. This component provided office equipment, vehicles,
training and technical assistance in key units of the Ministry.
(c)    District and Regional hospitals. The project provided for re-equipping and
rehabilitation of 7 MOH and 4 mission hospitals in the northernmost Regions of
Ghana, as well as a number of maintenance workshops.
2



(d)    Primary health care. This cormponent including training for DHMTs in health service
management, and provided for building DHMT offices and residential
accommodation for district health officers. Funding was also made available for
communications equipment, and for the financing of priority studies relevant to
primary care.
(e)    Population/family planning. The project was designed to finance contraceptives and
equipment for MOH family planning services, along with support for the Planned
Parenthood Association of Ghana (PPAG) in the form of clinic rehabilitation,
equipment, training, and contraceptive supply. International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF) was expected to continue to finance PPAG, along with grants from
the MOH.
(f)    A prizes fund. This fund was intended to provide incentives for good performance to
individual health workers and health teams, and to communities for undertaking
health-promoting activities.
2.3    During the mid-term review in 1994, modifications were made to project activities, although
there was no change in project objectives. The most notable of the changes is that the prizes fund
was dropped. The public perceived that healtht services were still very poor, and complained loudly
that the MOH was rewarding itself unjustifiably by giving itself prizes, even though prizes were also
awarded to communities undertaking health initiatives. There was little support in government for
the prizes outside the MOH, since no other ministries or agencies had been involved in the process.
As a result, and senior politicians did not want to continue to expose themselves to bad publicity, and
the experiment was dropped.
C.    LOAN COVENANITS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
2.4   The effectiveness conditions for the project included the appointment of a full-time
coordinator and procurement specialist for the project. The project also included many dated
covenants specified in Schedule 4 (Implementation Program) of the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA), which were intended to guide sector development. These ranged from a description of the
management arrangements for the project and its mid-term review date, to a framework agreement
for the MOH and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Dated covenants were also outlined for
the schedule of hiring heads of district health rnanagement teams (DHMTs), plans to expand services
(both outreach and PHC services), and requirements to design and implement a management and
health information system, and manpower plans (staffing norms, a master manpower plan, and a
training program). None of the conditions were met on time. Each of the dated covenants were
either achieved late, formally amended, or informally ignored as other events rendered them less
relevant. There were also four conditions of disbursement intended to assist implementation
(operation of the drug "cash and carry" scheme, formalization of a competitive bidding policy for
drugs; appointment of a maintenance engineer; establishment of a national population commission).
Prior to the mid-term review, a number of changes were made to allow for pre-installation works on
Regional and District hospitals and to expand the categories of staff eligible for training. The dates
on most of the covenants outlined in the Implementation Program were also delayed by two years.
3



D.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.5    The main project objectives were and are still relevant to the development of in Ghana's HNP
sector. They were consistent with the interests of the MOH and generally accepted public policy.
However, the management information system was quite rudimentary, and the proposed detailed
project indicators were never adopted. As a result, monitoring of project progress during supervision
was limited to the monitoring of inputs, and infrequent measurements of health and population status.
During the mid-term review, there was an attempt to revise the monitoring of objectives, but little
headway was made since most attention was on reinforcing implementation of project activities, and
establishing processes to develop sector policy. It is thus difficult to establish a link between the
intentions of a modest size project, performance of the health system, and the impact on people's
health.
3.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
3.1   The project was successful in achieving its objectives in the narrow sense of having
improved access to, and quality of, health and family planning services. The physical objectives of
the project were substantially achieved. Under the drugs supplies component, over US$4 million was
spent on drugs and vaccines. Ten Regional medical stores and 1 teaching hospital medical store were
refurbished. The headquarters and each Region also received vehicles to assist with supervision and
drug delivery. During the height of the 1996-97 meningitis epidemic, HPP funds were able to be re-
allocated and committed within one day of receiving the request from government to facilitate the
immediate shipping of emergency vaccines and supplies to combat the epidemic. Without the timely
funding, the meningitis vaccines would not have gone to Ghana. In-service training was completed
for 350 physicians, 350 medical assistants, and 150 pharmacists and pharmacy technicians on safe
prescription, as well as 500 health staff on the "cash and carry" system. The drug quality assurance
laboratory at the University of Science and Technology was re-equipped and 3 staff trained in drug
quality assurance; while the pre-service training for pharmacists and technicians was also expanded
under the project. Under the component for strengthening District and Regional hospitals, the 7
MOH and 4 mission hospitals were re-equipped. Two of the 3 planned hospital equipment
workshops were completed. In the last two years of the project, 2 health centers were physically
upgraded to district hospitals, with plans to equip them initiated under the current health sector
program of work. To support primary health care, 10 health centers were built and equipped, 1 1
DHMT offices were constructed and furnished, and 40 bungalows were constructed and furnished.
All are fully operational. The physical support to DHMT teams, including staff housing, is
considered by MOH as vital in attracting and maintaining good staff at the district level. In addition,
medical equipment was provided for another 100 health centers, along mobile workshops to assist
with maintenance and repairs. Five hundred motorcycles and a few other vehicles were also
purchased to improve outreach services and supervision. The project also provided funds to extend
the training in district health team planning across the country, so that all 110 districts now produce
annual plans and budgets. As a result of these improvements in health services, the access to health
services has increased, staff morale has improved, as has the quality at those facilities benefiting from
the credit. Overall, per capita utilization of outpatient services in Ghana increased from 0.20 per
capita in 1991 to 0.35 in 1997, a 75 percent increase. Outreach services are reported to be increasing,
4



nationally going from 7 outreach clinics per month per sub-district in 1996 to 7.7 in 1997.
3.2    As was the case for the health services components, the physical progress in
population/family planning was substantial, atnd helped to increase access to family planning.
Contraceptives for an amount of US$2.4 million were provided through the project, almost entirely
through PPAG. The number of service points increased dramatically through the training and
supplying of 750 community-based distributors. Five PPAG family planning clinics were
rehabilitated, and computers supplied and traiining provided to PPAG staff. The project also
supported the Ministry's training in Safe Motherhood, training health staff in new approaches to
antenatal, delivery, and post-natal care. The project made a substantial contribution to the
improvements in fertility conditions that are now beginning to be seen across Ghana. Between 1988
and 1993 (when national surveys were conducted), the national contraceptive prevalence increased
from 5 percent to 10 percent, and total fertility dropped from 6.5 to 5.5 children. Preliminary
evidence suggests that these parameters are continuing to improve slowly.
3.3    Several of the institutional objectives were achieved during the project period, though most
of the progress in sectoral policy and health systems were made almost despite the project. At the
mid-term review, it was recognized that for all practical purposes, the project had defined institutional
development in terms of the procurement of hardware, rather than the development of systems and
capacity utilization. Project institutional reform initiatives were either marginalized, or they tended to
detract from the way different parts of the MOH wanted to pursue their reform agendas. During the
project period, government health expenditures actually declined as a percent of recurrent revenues,
although the project had hoped to stimulate increases in government financing. The reorganization of
the MOH and its units occurred at a different pace than anticipated at appraisal, and in unexpected
directions (the restructuring of the central MOH, the development of a Ghana Health Service, and the
split of purchasers and providers were not anticipated, and the reorganization of the pharmacy unit
and the National Drug Program was only partially completed). The National Population Commission
(NPC) was established with some stimulation by the conditionalities of the project. The NPC then
produced a new population policy and plan of action, but without close involvement of IDA. IDA
ftunding for manpower development and the government aspects of the population program were
replaced by grant funding from ODA (UK), JICA, USAID, UNFPA, and others, under the principle
that IDA funding would be used as a last resort. It is also apparent that the imposition of IDA
conditionalities in these areas, and IDA's inability to maintain a ongoing technical dialogue in these
areas encouraged the MOH to seek help elsewhere. Nonetheless, the credit did provide for critical
training in DHMT management, rational drug use, drug quality assurance, contraceptive
management, and safe motherhood, which contributed to the institutional strengthening of the sector.
The physical support to the DHMTs through offices, equipment, and housing is viewed by the MOH
as important in allowing it to keep a district focus in its efforts, and particularly to keep good district
medical officers in place, especially in rural areas. The project also supported a number of small
research projects at the district level, though it had intended to make this a more prominent activity.
National studies on the quality of care and non-communicable diseases were also conducted, which
played a minor role in stimulating improvements in the management of clinical care.
3.4    The central role of procurement issues in the project has helped to strengthen the Ministry's
technical capacity, although it still has consideirable needs. The project has resulted in more attention
being paid to procurement, and has contributed to important procedural changes (for example, the use
of a procurement committee) to make MOH procurement more transparent and efficient than in the
past. The project was one of the early attempts to substantively address the issues of management of
logistics, especially concerning pharmaceuticals, equipment, and maintenance. The Ministry has
5



since strengthened itself in each of these areas (although with less success in pharmaceuticals than
equipment management), and has continued to take steps to improve its management of logistics after
the HPP.
3.5   The major successes in developing a sector policy and operational framework were primarily
achieved through the development of government's sector program, which occurred during
preparation of the subsequent IDA credit. Nonetheless, the HPP was used to finance workshops and
some technical assistance that was important to build consensus on the introduction of a Ghana
Health Service, the requisite manpower planning, and government's Medium Term Strategic
Framework. The other significant achievements that occurred during the project, but not as a result
of the project, included an expenditure and financing framework for the entire health sector. As a
result of government's new health program, its health expenditures increased in 1997 (from 6.9
percent of government recurrent expenditure in 1996 to 8.4 percent 1997), with greater allocations
going to district-level services. The sustainability of the health program is likely, since the follow-up
operation abandoned the traditional project approach, and became an integral part of the entire health
sector in Ghana, for which a comprehensive health policy and operational framework have been
established. Borrower commitment is very high, and the operational plans address institutional
effectiveness, technical and financial viability, and local participation.
B.    SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.6   The total project cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$34.4 million with the
government contributing US$7.0 million, IDA providing US$27 million, and the International
Planned Parenthood Federation, Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana, and the National Catholic
Secretariat combining for US$0.4 million. The project was closed on December 31, 1997.
Government contributed US$1.5 million (1.8 billion Cedis) to the project, and has assumed the
operational costs for the project investments. Total disbursements of the credit at project closure was
SDR 18.9 million (US$27.4 million equivalent); an outstanding balance of SDR 0.56 million is
scheduled for cancellation.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.7   The credit was signed on December 21, 1990, and became effective on June 18, 1991.
Implementation was monitored through semi-annual supervision visits. The project was closed on
December 31, 1997. The rate of implementation was extremely slow during the first two years of the
project life, as effectiveness and disbursement conditions were not met, and the project management
unit (PMU) was staffed by consultants outside the MOH. Implementation began when the PMU was
moved within the MOH in late 1992 using MOH staff, and accelerated significantly after a mid-term
review in June 1994. By involving key actors in problem-solving and by indicating that the project
could be implemented with more flexibility, the mid-term review served as an effective way of
enhancing commitment, resolving implementation problems, and clarifying the remaining work
program. Because of the delay in project take-off, two one-year extensions were required to
complete implementation.
6



D.    ANALYSIS OF KEY FA,CTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
3.8   Project achievements were constrained by a number of factors. The more significant factors
include:
(a)    A traditional project design. During preparation and appraisal, the Ghana health
system was dominated by a series of donor project units and vertically oriented.
With a long series of conditionalities and 14 disbursement categories for the project,
the Ministry felt that the HPP had locked them in for five years, even though
circumstances were changing. Although the project promoted the reorganization of
the entire Ministry, the establishment of another PMU addressing specific
components contributed to furthering the fragmentation of the health sector. This
resulted in duplication of project systems (for example, different PMUs did similar
tasks depending on the financier). It also tended to dilute the attention of senior
Ministry officials, who spent more time dealing with different project issues and
visiting missions from various donors than working on strategic issues and the
leadership concerns for the sector. This type of fragmentation set up a situation in
which the Ministry and donors worked at odds with each other. These problems
were not well addressed until the development of a new sector-wide approach
currently being supported by the follow-up IDA credit. The MOH has taken over the
leadership of the forum with donors and technical partners, who now explicitly work
under a single framework tovvard common objectives.
(b)    A lack of ownership in the project. The limited ownership at the beginning of the
project became manifest through limited support from senior MOH officials for the
project and a lack of timely counterpart funds. These factors delayed implementation
during the initial years. In later years, when physical implementation of the project
was working well, the lack of involvement of MOH managers at lower levels
resulted in poor oversight of ithe activities in their areas. This was a problem
particularly in the few cases in which contractors did not perform well, and
contributed to delays in implementation. The fact that the PMU was initially staffed
by outside consultants also made it difficult for the project to be engaged in sensitive
sector reform issues that required leadership from the Ministry. The use of policy
conditionalities, although intended to support the MOH reform agenda, served to
antagonize MOH staff, making it difficult for the project to support such reforms.
The availability of grant funding from other donors for similar activities added to the
confusion, but resulted in a preference for the use of other financiers to support
systems development in such areas as institutional reorganization, human resource
and financial management, drug systems, and population/family planning.
Nonetheless, the MOH itself was not a homogeneous unit, so that even when the
PMU became part of the Ministry, differences between units in the MOH prevented
smooth implementation of all components. The effects were most notable on the
research activities, the supervision of civil works, equipment installation, and on
support for policy and systems development through the project.
(c)    Over-use of conditionalities. The number of disbursement conditions resulted in
delayed project start-up, and became a disincentive to project staff. The dated
covenants "locked in" the MOH to a blueprint that became inappropriate over time,
creating tension between the N4OH and IDA, and undermining the sector dialogue
7



rather than stimulating change. Some of the specific conditionalities became
counterproductive. For example, the problems with weak procurement systems
were not solved by the requirement to place procurement staff and formalize a
bidding policy. The Ghana Supply Commission, which then handled much of the
procurement of goods, proved to be an obstacle in procurement, as they did not
adhere to the careful technical specifications on medical equipment and motorcycles,
and did not involve the MOH in the evaluation and distribution phases. Nonetheless,
the use of conditionalities was effective in bringing health sector concerns to the
attention of government officials in central ministries. IDA's informal threat to
suspend project disbursement unless the MOH was reorganized helped politicians to
reach such an agreement. However, the process alienated MOH staff with IDA, but
stimulated the MOH to reorganize itself in ways different than project consultants
(who were felt to represent the views of IDA) had envisioned.
(d)    Unstable management of key NGOs in the project. The PPAG had financial
constraints from their traditional financiers, partly because there was major personnel
turnover during the project. This resulted in a need to retrain management staff, and
caused a slow-down in project implementation.
(e)    Poor supervision of civil works. The MOH did not have the capacity to undertake
technical supervision of the civil works. Although considerable effort was spent
during early IDA supervision missions to improve the management of civil works,
this resulted in improved procurement of works, but not of the supervision of works.
The consulting supervisors did not identify poorly performing contractors until
extensions were needed. They took few steps, if any, to deal with problem
contractors unless reminded by MOH and Bank missions, though this was part of
their terms of reference. There was little incentive for civil works supervisors to
keep down costs of the contractors (supervisors were paid on a contingency basis), or
to have contractors deliver on time, since no penalty clauses were enforced on
supervisors or contractors.
3.9    A number of other factors that are generally considered under government control also
affected the project. High inflation and devaluation, particularly from 1993-1996, threatened the
viability of the drug "cash and carry" system because it made it difficult to keep up with rising drug
prices. The user fee rates did not change during the life of the project (a carry-over conditionality
from the previous Health and Education Rehabilitation Project), and there was little monitoring of the
effects of these cost-recovery policies. One result has been a reported increase in unofficial charges
for drugs and services, undermnining the integrity of financial controls and public confidence, and
offering little protection for the poor. Although utilization of services fell rapidly after the
introduction of user fees, it has been climbing slowly since then. However, it is not clear who is
paying the most because of the changes in policies. Survey evidence in 1997 continued to show that
the poor frequently do not use health services because of their cost and limited accessibility,
particularly in the northern Regions (Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire).
8



E.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND IDA'S PERFORMANCE
3.10   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. After the initial slow years, the Minister of
Health incorporated the project into the MOH, and attended to resurrecting implementation of the
project. The initially poor performance was clearly related to low ownership of the project, which
changed when the institutional arrangements were altered. In several cases, the project was used as a
starting point for key activities that the MIinistry took on without project support, even as
implementation of the project proceeded.
3.11   The overall performance of IDA was satisfactory. IDA identified needs that were clearly a
high priority at the time, and contributed to the development of significant policy changes. Yet IDA
took part in project design which overly specified and compartmentalized implementation details.
The appraisal was thorough and consistent with good practice at the time. However, the excessive
use of conditionalities placed IDA and the MOH in an adversarial situation, though it sometimes
produced positive results. IDA did provide significant resources during supervision, and assisted in
restructuring the project at the mid-term review. Importantly, its flexibility in giving up the project
approach, even as the HPP was being implemented, and the close manner in which it worked with
other donors, helped give confidence to t]he MOH and other agencies that they could move to a
sector-wide approach, where more emphasis is given on developing and using common
implementation systems.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
3.12   The Second Health and Population Project has produced positive results. Although
improvement in access and quality of health and family services remains an ongoing concern, the
project contributed to improvements in these areas. Nationwide, utilization of health services and
contraceptive prevalence are steadily increasing. The district-based approach to health services
remains strong in a large part because of the project's support. The project contributed to developing
managerial and technical skills needed to make health sector efforts sustainable, both at the district
and central levels. Financial viability is mlore certain since the project was followed up by a
comprehensive sector expenditure framework with government increasing its expenditures on health
in an affordable manner. These factors, along with the technical quality and high degree of
commitment to a Five-Year Health Sector Program of Work make the sustainability of the project
highly likely.
4.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
A.    IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1   Implementation lessons include:
(a)    An overly prescriptive design, having the nature of a multiple-year blueprint, was not
appropriate for the type of complex institutional changes that were being addressed.
Greater flexibility is needed, with monitoring linked to the processes and timing of
9



government.
(b)    Any short-term gains that may have been hoped for by the establishment of a semi-
independent PMU were immediately lost because of the effects of lack of ownership.
Moving the management of the project more directly into the mainstream of the
MOH was important.
(c)    The use of the mid-term review was critical to resuscitating the project. It not only
re-focused the project activities, it also added some flexibility into the
implementation.
(d)    Supervision of civil works in the Ghana health sector needs to change. The new
sector program is dealing with this issue substantively, recognizing that simply hiring
consultant architects and engineers does not ensure adequate supervision.
B.    FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.2    As a result of the HPP experience in the context of a fragmented health sector with a large
reform agenda, IDA has abandoned the project approach for the Ghana health sector, and supported a
sector-wide approach. This has increased the likelihood of success and sustainability in the health
sector, and made IDA an effective and important partner in decisions on health policy, resource
allocation, the design of health systems, and the monitoring of change. Government has developed
and is implementing its comprehensive sector policies and implementation and monitoring guidelines
for the entire sector, and has already effected significant reforms and increased its expenditures for
health.
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR
4.3    Key lessons learned for future projects in the sector include:
(a)   In an environment in which there are many donor agencies, separate projects divide
attentions of the MOH and dilute their capacity, resulting in diffusion of efforts,
duplication, and greater fragmentation of the health system. Project approaches may
need to be abandoned in order to better build and utilize capacity and achieve
sectoral goals. The Ghana experience may yet prove to be a model for how to move
to sector-wide approaches.
(b)    Ensuring ownership of the project is critical to its success. In this case, it means
placing the responsibility and the means for implementation within the MOH.
(c)    Conditionalities can be used to change policies, such as cost-recovery. However,
changing policy does not necessarily assure that policies are well implemented. In
some cases, the result created more harm. The user fee and "cash and carry" policies
have had dramatic negative effects on utilization, and there were no mechanisms to
monitor the policy effects, or the make changes.
10



(d)    Conditionalities that are time-linked over several years soon become outdated, and
can create an adversarial environment between government and IDA. While this can
sometimes stimulate change, it can "lock-in" both government and IDA, becoming
more of an obstruction to the dialogue than a means of facilitating change.
(e)    Institutional development needs to focus more on software concerns such as systems,
processes, staff capabilities and incentives, and less on the procurement of hardware.
(f)    Working in partnerships with MOH, other donor agencies and NGOs is critical to
more effective health systems in an environment like Ghana's.
11



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 7:      Project Costs
Table 8:      Project Financing
Table 9:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table l1:     Bank Resources: Missions
12



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial         Partial          Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                         [J
Sector Policies                                          i: O                                  i:i
Financial Objectives                   EJ                E                                      El
Institutional Development              []                                   i:                  i:i
Physical Objectives                                      El                 r                   El
Poverty Reduction                      []                 5                                     El
Gender Issues                                            El                                     El
Other Social Objectives                                  E] E               I]
Environmental Objectives               []                E ]]
Public Sector Management                E] ]l
Private Sector Development             F]                ri
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely                    Unlikely                     Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification                         El                                                       El
Preparation Assistance                 I]
Appraisal                               !                            3         
Supervision                            0l
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Deficient
Preparation                             E]                                                      E 
Implementation                                                     E                            El 
Covenant compliance                    iR                                                        El
Elighly
E. Assessment of Outcome                    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit          [            Purpose           [   Year of approval   [    Status
Following Operations
Cr. 20390                  Water Sector Rehab                     1989             Ongoing
Cr. 21090                  VRA/Sixth Power                        1990             Ongoing
Cr. 21570                  Urban II (Sec. Cities)                 1990             Ongoing
Cr. 21800                  Agric. Divers (Tree Crop)              1991             Ongoing
Cr. 22240                  Econ. Mgt. Support                     1991             Ongoing
Cr. 22470                  Agric. Research                        1991             Ongoing
Cr. 23190                  Feeder Roads                           1992             Ongoing
Cr. 23460                  Agric. Extension                       1992             Ongoing
Cr. 23490                  Adult Literacy                         1992              Closed
Cr. 24260                  Environment                            1993             Ongoing
Cr. 25080                  Primary School Dev.                    1993             Ongoing
Cr. 24280                  Tertiary Education                     1993             Ongoing
Cr. 24410                  Livestock                              1993             Ongoing
Cr. 24670                  National Electrication                 1993             Ongoing
Cr. 25020                  Enterprise Devt.                       1993              Closed
Cr. 24980                  Urban Transport                        1993             Ongoing
Cr. 25550                  Agric. Sector Invest.                  1994             Ongoing
Cr. 25680                  Local Govt. Dev.                       1994             Ongoing
Cr. 26040             .   Community Water                         1994             Ongoing
Cr. 26650                  Priv. Sector Dev.                      1995             Ongoing
Cr. 27180                  Private Sector Adj.                    1995             Ongoing
Cr. 26820                  Thermal (P. VII)                       1995             Ongoing
Cr. 27430                  Mining Sec. Dev. & Env.                1995             Ongoing
Cr. 27130                  Fisheries                              1995             Ongoing
Cr. 26950                  Educ./Voc. Training                    1995             Ongoing
Cr. 27920                  Non-Bank Fin. Ins. Ast.                1996             Ongoing
Cr. 28360                  Urban Env. Sanitation                  1996             Ongoing
Cr. 28580                  Highway Sect. Inv. Prog.               1996             Ongoing
Cr. 28770                  Public Enterprise                      1996             Ongoing
Cr. 28850                  Basic Education                        1996             Ongoing
Cr. 29250                  Public Fin. Magmt. Tap.                1997             Ongoing
N0200                      Village Infrastructure                 1997             Ongoing
Cr. 29940                  Health Sector Support                  1998             Ongoing
Cr. 27183                  Private Sector Adj.                    1998             Ongoing
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
-  |      Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned             latest estimate
03/16/87
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                   08/15188
08/15/88
Preparation
01/90*                   01/16/90
Appraisal
10/90*                   10/17/90
Negotiations                                 ___
12/13/90
Board presentation
12/21/90
Signing                                                                                        l
03/91*                   06/18/91
Effectiveness
12/31/97
Project completion
12/31/95                 12/31/97
Credit closing
*Dates obtained from MOP
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY1991   FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY1995   FY1996   FY1997   FY1998
Appraisal estimate   1.4      9.5       16.3      23.1      27.0
Actual                        1.10      2.20      5.73      13.64    18.56   25.94          27.35
0%       12%       13%       25%       50%       69%     96%          100%
Date of final                                                                           June 5, 1998
disbursement
15



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Component                     Planned Action                            Results                                  Effect
1. Health Services
A. Improve drug supplies   Procure essential drugs and vaccines  US$ 4 million essential drugs and vaccines  Improved availability to drugs and
and infrastructure                                             purchased and distributed, estimated to  vaccines, improved quality of care
cover 7% of national drugs needs, 80% of
vaccine requirements met
Procure office and data processing   Procurement completed                    Restructured Pharamceutical Unit able to
equipment, vehicle for Pharmaceutical                                         function better
unit
Rehabilitate Medical Stores:         Rehabilitation completed                 Medical stores able to store drugs
- Central MS
- 10 regional stores
- Teaching Hospital Store
Procure office and data processing   Equipment procured, training completed    Improved inventory management
equipment
Train staff by using local computer
programming consultant
Train 3 staff                        2 staff trained, literature purchased,   Drug quality control testing expanded
Purchase technical library materials  laboratory equipped
Equip drug testing laboratory
Support training of Pharmacists and  Pre-service training expanded to 3 years  Better pharmacy skills available
Pharmacy Technicians
In-service training of 350 physicians,  Training completed                    Improved rationale drug prescribing
350 medical assistants, 150 pharmacists
and pharmacy technicians



Component                   Planned Action                           Results                                Effect
Establish Drug Information Center   Not done                               Missed opportunity to improve drug
safety
Train 500 health staff on cash and carry   Training completed              More efficient "cash and carry" system
procedures
Procure 10 vehicles for Heads of    Vehicles procured                      Increased supervision and delivery of
Pharmaceutical Divisions at Central and                                   drugs at all levels
Regional levels
B. Regional and District   Upgrade 2 health centers into hospitals   Initial phases completed at both sites. Part  Improved first referral hospital services
Hospital Rehabilitation                                     of total equipment needs procured.     in remote areas
Re-equip 7 MOH hospitals and 4      Rehabilitation completed and equipment    Range and quality of hospital services
mission hospitals                   installed and in use                   increased
Utilization at facilities increased
C. Support Primary      Build & furnish 40 staff bungalows in    All 40 bungalows completed and furnished  Staff morale improved, decreased staff
Health Care             remote areas                                                               turnover
Build 11 DHMT offices               All completed, furnished, and in use  Improved efficiency
Improved work performance
Build 10 health centers             Centers built, equipment supplied, facilities  Increased access to health care
in use
Supply 100 sets of health center    Equipment installed and in use        Improved quality of care
equipment
Procure and use 2 mobile workshops,    Mobile workshops used and poorly run, I   Reduced average duration of repair
build 3 fixed workshops             fixed workshop built                   Reduced proportion of repairs delayed
due to absence of spare parts
Reduced proportion of spare parts
missing
Procure 500 motorcyles for DHMTs    500 motorcycles purchased and in use   Increased supervision and outreach
clinics



Component                    Planned Action                           Results                                Effect
Radio communications for DHMTs      Prototype tested, none installed       DHMTs' basic operational needs met
2. Population Services
A. Support              Procure contraceptives               $2.3 million in contraceptives for PPAG;    Increased use of contraceptives with full
Population/Family                                            $100,000 in injectables for MOH        range of methods available
Planning
Training of Community Based         800 CBDs trained and supplied through  Increased access to family planning,
Distributors (CBDs)                 PPAG                                    improved quality of services
Rehabilitate PPAG clinics           26 PPAG clinics rehabilitated and       Improved access and quality to family
equipped; 82 bicycles purchased and in use  planning services
by PPAG staff (CBD supervisors)
Train MOH staff in safe motherhood  Training completed                     Better quality of reproductive health
services.
3. Institution Building
Strengthening MOH       DHMT Training:                       District annual Plans of Actions completed  Improved efficiency in district
- Phase I in 3 regions                                                     management
- Phase 11 in 7 regions
Support for developing consensus and    Workshops to develop consensus and  GHS accepted and designs well
designs for Ghana Health Service    designs for development of GHS         advanced; Bill passed to provide legal
basis for GHS
Support for development of human    Workshops and consultancies to develop    Human Resource Development Division
resource plans                      consensus and plans for human resource  prepared detailed policies, plans and
planning                               procedures for managing personnel,
training, and staff requirements
Support for development of Medium   MTHS workshops conducted, MTHS and    Led to new health sector policy and
Term Health Strategy and Program of    POW completed, technical assistance used   operational framework. A better
Work                                                                       articulated and comprehensive sector-
wide program that is supported by donors
and other health partners



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                                       appraisaUredefined                  Status                    Impact of study
District Studies:
Anemia in Pregnancy           Determine etiologic factors of anemia in     Complete      Led to increased treatment and prevention of
pregnancy in Navrongo                                     malaria in pregnancy
Use of Medical Assistants in  Review the development, training, and use of  Complete     Supported continuation of medical assistant
PHC                           Medical Assistants in Ghana                               training
Attitudes of doctors to rural  Describe concerns of physicians in rural areas  Complete    Identifies types of incentives needed to retain
postings                      in Volta Region                                            physicians in rural areas
Causes of infant malnutrition in   Determine factors contributing to high infant  Complete;  Help health team to better design nutrition
a fishing community           malnutrition in a fishing community in Cape  Study used    messages in their communities
Coast                                     locally but not
submitted to HQ
National Studies:
Quality of care assessment    Provide a national baseline on perceptions of  Complete    Raise awareness of quality of care among public
quality of care from providers and health                 and providers; provides a benchmark for future
service users, and assess physical quality of             monitoring
sample of facilities
Prevalence of non-            Provide a baseline of the prevalence of non-  Ongoing      To be determined
communicable diseases         communicable diseases, risk factors, and
disability



Table 7: Project Credit Costs
Item                                                Appraisal estimate (USS)     Actual/latest estimate (US$)
1. MOH                                             _        _l
Civil Works                                             2,050,000                    6,136,953.65
Drugs                                                   3,380,000                    3,937,964.23
Hospital Equipment & Spare Parts                        2,850,000                    3,689,638.35
Contraceptives                                          1,950,000                      100,000.00
Other Equipment, spare parts, vehicles                  7,880,000                    7,410,488.84
fumiture, building materials, office
supplies & vaccines
Consultants' services & training                        2,880,000                    2,865,828.66
Operating cost                                              0                         458,498.02
2. PPAG                                                                                                     il
Equipment, furniture, spare parts,                        550,000                     162,459.58
office supplies & vehicles                                                                                 l
Contraceptives                                           1,700,000                   2,337,065.51
Training                                                  330,000                     248,4444.23
3. NCS
Hospital equipment, spare parts, vehicles &               750,000                      20,828.81
maintenance equipment                                                                                      l
Civil Works                                                 0                          24,162.79
Unallocated                                              2,670,000                        0
TOTAL                                                      27,000,000                   27,354,390.55
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                               Total                                 Total
IDA                                                27.0                                  27.0
Non-govermmental
organizations                                       0.4                                   --
|FGovernment of Ghana                                7.0                                   1.5
20



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                            COVENANT                             C = In Comp.           COMMENTS               ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                    CD = Compliance                                   REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                                     after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet due
2.02 (b)              The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two special deposit  C          None
accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. (i) Special Account PPAG for Part E.2 and 3 of
the Project; and (ii) Special Account MOH for all other Parts of the
Project. Deposits into and payments out of Special Account shall be
made in accordance to Schedule 5.
3.01 (a)               The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the      C           On-going
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropirate administrative, financial, public health,
family planning and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promtly, funds, facilities, services and other resources.
3.01 (c)              The Borrower shall make available to NCS out of the proceeds of     C
the Credit, on a grant basis, an amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 590,000 for the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project under the
NCS Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NCS
under terms and conditions which shall bave been approved by the
Association to protect the interests of both parties.
3.01 (c) (i)          Require NCS to carry out Part C.2 of the Project with due diligence  C
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
managerial and public health standards and to appoint a co-ordinator
of its Project activities in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
3.01 (c) (ii)         Require NCS to maintain adequate records and accounts with respect  C           None
to the Project activities and to have them audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
3.01 (c) (iii)         Require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the  C          None
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in carrying out the project, and
3.01 (d)               The Borrower shall make available to PPAG out of the Credit, as a  C
grant not more than SDR 2,040,000 equivalent for Part E.2 and 3 of
the Project under the PPAG Agreement.
3.01 (d) (i)           Require PPAG to appooint a qualified coordinator of its Project    C
activities.
3.01 (d) (ii)         Require PPAG to maintain records and accounts and to have them      C
audited in accordance with Section 44.01 of this Agreement.
3.01 (d) (iii)        Require that: (A) goods and service to be finance under the Credit  C
be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                              COVENANT                              C = In Comp.           COMMENTS                ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                      CD = Compliance                                     REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                                        after Delay
CP = Coup. with
Partally
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet due o
3.02                   The Borrower shall make available to other NGOs out of the Credit,    CP          None
as a grant, not more than SDR 220,000 equiv. for Part C.3 of the
Project under agreements between the Borrower and respective NGO
under terms and conditions approved by the Association and which
shall include substantially the provisions in the NCS Agreement
taking into account specific requirements of the mission hospitals.                                                                  l
3.03                   The Borrower shall provide contraceptives to NGOs involved in         C           Forwarded through
family planning activities under arrangements acceptable to the                   PPAG
Association.
4.01 (a)               The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and   C           Ongoing
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project to be executed by the responsible departments or agencies of
the Borrower.
4.01 (b) (i)           The Borrower shall have the recoreds and accounts audited by          C           Ongoing
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.                                          __l
4.01 (b) (ii)          The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than six     C
r'3                               months after the end of each fiscal year, a certififed copy of the audit
report.
4.02                   Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall, on the       C
occasion of the annual public expenditure review to be undertaken
by the Borrower & the Association or, in the event that such a
review does not take place, no later than Dec. 31 of each year,
furnish to the Association MOH's recurrent budget for the next
fiscal year and the 3-year public investment program in the health
sector all acceptable to Association.
5.01                   Additional effectiveness conditions are:                              C           MOH has done
expenditure review as
part of Govt's PER in
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1995.   _ _ _ _ _ _ __19 9 5
5.01 (a)               (a) the NCS Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower     C
and NCS.
5.01 (b)               (b) the PPAG Agreement has been executed on behalf of the             C
Borrower and PPAG; and
5.01 (c)               (c) the Borrower has appointed within MOH and full-time               C           None
coordinator and a full-time procurement specialist with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and to
be responsible for all projects in the health sector financed by the
Association.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                             COVENANT                            C = In Comp.           COMMENTS               ACTION TAKEN OR
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                    CD = Compliance                                   REQUIRED
AGREEMENT                                                                     after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet due c
5.02                  Additional matters to be included in the legal opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association are that the NCS and PPAG
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and NCS and PPAG, respectively, and are legally binding. ,
Schedule 4: 2         To facilitate the involvement of NGOs in carrying out the Project   CP          To be susperceded by
and related activities in the health sector, the Borrower shall prepare,       MTHS.
not later than June 30, 1991, a master framework agreement
acceptable to the Association governing the relationship between
MOH and NGOs in areas of health and population activities.                                                                       l
Schedule 4:3           MOH shall continue its program of appointing full-time heads of the  C
District Health management Teams and appoint: 10 additional heads
not later than December 31, 1991.
Schedule 4: 4          MOH shall expand, not later than December 31, 1991, health care    C
outreach service to all regions.
Schedule 4: 5          MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and  C         Superceded by MTHS.
comments, not later than December 31, 1991, a program for the
expansion of the primary health care coverage.
Schedule 4: 6 (a)      (a) design not later than December 31, 1991, a management and      CP          There are two MIS
health information systems; and                                                systems in MOH,
MOH will legitimize
HRS MIS for HRD
Division.
Schedule 4: 6(b)      (b) after having reviewed this system with the Association,         C           Sperceded by MTHS.
implement such a system not later than December 31, 1992, taking
into account the Association's comments.
Schedule 4: 7(a)       MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Assocation for its review and  C          Done in context of
comments: (a) not later than September 30, 1991, staffing norms for            MTHS.
health facilities.
Schedule 4: 7(b)      (b) not later than March 31, 1992, a manpower master plan, and       C          None
Schedule 4: 7(c)      (c) not later than June 30, 1992, a master trianing program for health  C       None
staff.



Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned                     Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks      US$        Staff Weeks      US$
('000)                      ('000)
Preparation to appraisal                                 10.2          21.4
Appraisal                                                30.1          69.1
Negotiation through Board     -             -            34.1          82.5
approval
Supervision*                 37.8          66.3          144.5         280.4
Completion*                  15.1          31.2           7.8          17.0
TOTAL                       52.9         97.5           226.7         470.4
*Information available from FACT only for FY96-FY98.
24



Table  1 : Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of            Month/           Number       Days           Specialized*           Implemen.        Develop.
project cycle           year              of          in            staff skills            Status        Objectives
persons     Field          represented
Preparation                04/89              3           12    SP,TM,HS
Through                    06/89              1           7     TM
Effectiveness              08/89              1           14    TM
10/89             4          22    TM, SP, HS, PS
01/90              1          24    TM
06/90             2           12    TM, HS
Supervision                03/91              4          20    PS, SP, OA, TM
11/91             3           18    PS, TM,SP                          3              2
03/92             3           18    SP, TM, PO
06/92             2           8     SP, PO                             3              3
02/93             2           16     SP, PO                            3              3
08/93             3           20    PHS, HE, SPHS                      2              3
09/93             3           18    PHS (2), HE
06/94             3           7     PO,SP, HE
10/94             2           7     HE, SP
05/95             3           5     PHS, PO, HE                        S              S
09/95             3           22    PO, PHS, HE
02/96             3           2     PO, PHS, SOO
06/96             3           2     PHS, PO, OA                        S              S
10/96             3           2     PHA, PO, OA
03/97             3           12    PHS (2), PO,                       S              S
Completion                 09/97              3           5     PHS, PO, PHE                       S              S
04/98             2           3     SPHS, PO                   _      _I
*Key to Specialized Staff skills: TM=Task Manager; SP=Senior Planner; HS=Health Specialist; PS=Pharmaceuticals Specialist; PHS=Public
Health Specialist; P-Procurement Officer, OA=Operations Analyst, PO= Project Officer, SPHS= Sr Public Health Specialist, HE= Health
Economist, SOO=Sr. Operations Officer, PHE= Public Health Engineer
25



IMPLEMENTATICIN COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
fCr. 2193-GH]
APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR



Page 1 of 4
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
END OF PROJECT ASSESSMENT
'BY
THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, GHANA
MAY 1998



Page 2 of 4
A. BACKGROUND
The Second I-fealth and Population Project - 2HPP- (Cr 2193-Gil) was a follow on
project to the Ihealth and .Education Jroject (REP) (Cr 1653-GH).  The HI.P was an
emlergency project to slow down the rate of deteioration and to eventually begin the
rebuildin_4 process. The 2HPP built on the first project by attempting to movc from an
emergency/supply project to a policy and institutional development projectL
The objeeLi ves of the project were to (a) increase the quility and coverage of services and
(b) increase the availability and accessibility of family planning services
The project had 6 components as follows;
*     drug supplies and drug infrastructure rehabilitation
*     strcngthening the Ministry of HealtSh (MOR)
*     regional and district hospitals
*     prinaiay hcalth care (PHC)
*     zpopulaionlfaniily planning
*     prizes fund
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
Very little was achieved during the first two years of project implementation. This was
mainly because project implemcntation was left in the hands of 'consultants' in the
Projec Management Unit (PMU) whilst acion to meet conditionalities for effectivencss
and disbursement was ecpected to be taken by line MOR stafE It was not until mid 1992,
when steaf ;f i.Lc MOE. took over the PMU -that soinc progress started to be made. After
a mid-termi review in Jlune 1994, several bottlenecks were eased and implementation
improved aremendously.
ProcurcmenE and Civil Works
The areas where substantial progress was made was in the areas lhat involved
procurement and civil works. Durng the lifc of the project, drugs procuremenr was
importanc in re-capitalising the revolving drug fimd and maining operations. a
substantial proportion of annual vaccine requirements (up to 80% in some years) were
provided 1rom the credit and in thc last two years, medical consumables including
laboratory reagents were provided. The civil works component involving rehabilitation
of the Central Medical Stores and 7 Regional Medical Stores; construction of one new
Regional Mcdical Storc, 40 Bungalows, 11 offices for District Health Managemnent
Teams, 10 lealth Ccntres have beec completcd Also, the upgrade of two health- centres
in Walewale and Zebilla to District Ilospit.ls Wcl1 provide hospital care to 2 under-servecd
areas.



2Xf'. .    1_.4l  7 .-'^ 1i 227- F .C $     BANK GHAIt
'Page 3 of 4
Population and Family Plan
Progress w.ade in this arca was mainLy limited to activities of NOOs - The Planned
Par=nLhood Association of Ghana (PPAG) and the Mayday Rural Project Thcsc NG Os
received conLraceptvc supplies tbro.zhot:t the project priod and PPAG was supported
with cLinic furniture and equipment to expand their serviccs, and funds for the training
and support of conrnunity based distr.butors of family plxming commodiries. Tn fact,
PPAG has pioneered CBD training mad support maerialssystms in GTzia Their systEem
for the LrUining and support of CBDs has eventually been the basis of the I014
progamTmie. ln addiionU, 8 trekking vehicles were bought for PPAG regional activities
The MOIH ,ads h-owever not supported as planned under this component because most of
the con czpUive needs were provide by UTSAM and LTNFPA H:owever, fands under the
projec was used for the training of 4octors and nurses using thc safe motherhood
guidelines atnd protocols.
Primary i-tcalth Care (PHC)
For PHC, die support came through the provision of furniture to DiFTMT offices mad Lle
consauctioii of bunaLows for Dismict Directors of Health. SerVices. This in no small ;way
faciiarca rfie place.ment of doctors to marage district healdh services. By the end of rhe
projcct, disaicts wirh subsrantive Distric: Directors more Lhan doubled from below 40 to
over 80 cdisrnicts (our of a total of 110 districts.
Also. rhc prolision of hospital equipment to all dstrict hosprimls in the 3 Norther rei6ons
as well as I o1 sets of hcalth centrc eqtiprment the consruction of 10 new health cencres
and the reabilitiLaon of over 30 health centres in the northern sector all wenLt to improved
rhe capacity co deliver disLrct health services.
In last years of the project, the agreement to buy 500 motorbikes was a major boost to
Pf:iC services, par-mcularly outreach.
Pharm;ccuticals
Apart from thle procurement of about S4 million worth of drugs and vacciacs, the
pharmaccutdcal sector was supported w&ith 10 trekldng vehicles - one to each regional
'Cash andi C=riy' coordinator. Pharmacists were also trained in the manEagl of die
drug revolving fund, so called 'Cash ancL catty'.
The project. .upported the pre-service traLing of pharmacy techniciansinpoe  s;
n-servncc training of prescribers in rationOa prescripti on ad the provision o r equi p=et
to the Univcrsity of Science and Tcchoio]O   Pharnacy department to -support a quality
testing I ahcx arozy.



Page 4 of 4
Institutionail IDevelopment
The main activity under the project relaed to instiutrional dcvelopment was in thC
reorganisaLion of the Ministry. This was a conditionaliLy and so a cOnsu]tanL vZas
contractea to make a proposaL but this proposal was not acccpted by the MOL lnstead,
the MOH starred a consiutalve proccss which has rcsulted in the cuirent structure of tlec
MOH whichi now been rcorganscd from programmes to divisions based on functon.
GENER4L CONMFNTS ON TBJZ ACIBEVEM-ENTS OF THE PROJE CT
Iu physical tcrms, dhe projcct largely achicved its aim after 2 extensions which made up
for the inital 2-yearinertiain implementation. The DMO bungalows, the health centes,
the furnishing of DIIMT offices coupled with the requirement that the Govenment of
CThana must build them, the rchabilitated medical stores, the drugs, vaccines, equipment
and vehiJics procured etc, all provided much needed inputs lo the health sector.
The project was much less successful in terms policy devcloprnaent and
instional/system capacity developmen  In the first half of the project fDA support
concenLraced on policing the extent to wnich Bank Procedures were sictcrly adhered to,
paricularly in the areaof procurement As a project with its separate PMU, most of these
requiremeats which should havc resulted in wider institutioral improvements ended up
as discrete and limited exercises to satisfy TDA.
However. dunrng the second half of the project, IDA took the lead in supporting the
refonr process in the he-alth sector of Ghana. In particular, IDA gave its no obiection to
using credit Cunds to contribute to the development of a policy vision (The Medium
Hcalth St-eregy); a programme of work ard a finmacing envelope (The 5-Year Programme
of Work): and to defimng the maagermcnt anrangements thaL will allow several donors
to support the 5-Year Programme of Work by combining their effort. Ihis reform
provided a clcar policy vision as well as a credible programmc as the basis for health
developmenit by both govcrnment and donors.
This approach influenced the developmcnt of thc next credit and in the long terTm will
form the basis for sustainable, progressrve improvements in the capacitv of the health
sector to acliver the services required to keep iniproviiig the health of (ilanaians.



