Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2193 GH
              (Second Health and Population Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 21, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2193 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (b)   "NCS" means the National Catholic Secretariat of Ghana;
      (c)   "PPAG" means the Planned Parenthood Association of
Ghana, an affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood
Federation;
      (d)   "NCS Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NCS pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
      (e)   "PPAG Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PPAG pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
      (f)   "MCH/FP" means Maternal and Child Health and Family
planning;
      (g)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "DHMT" means a district health management team; and
      (i)   "DMOH" means a district medical officer of health.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two
special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) Special
Account PPAG for purposes of Part E.2 and 3 of the Project; and
(ii) Special Account MOH for purposes of all other Parts of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing January 15, 2001, and ending July 15, 2030.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, public health, family planning and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)  The Borrower shall make available to NCS out of the
proceeds of the Credit, on a grant basis, an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 590,000 for the purposes of Part C.2 of the
Project under the NCS Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NCS under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, including the right to:
           (i)    require NCS to carry out Part C.2 of the Project
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  accordance with sound technical, financial,
                  managerial and public health standards and to
                  appoint a coordinator of its Project activities
                  in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to
                  this Agreement;
           (ii)   require NCS to maintain adequate records and
                  accounts with respect to the Project activities
                  and to have them audited in accordance with the
                  provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
          (iii)   require that: (A) the goods and services to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
                  be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
                  Agreement; and (B) such goods and services shall
                  be used exclusively in carrying out the Project;
                  and
           (iv)   inspect, by itself or jointly with
                  representatives of the Association, if the
                  Association shall so request, such goods and
                  works carried out by NCS.
      (d)  The Borrower shall make available to PPAG out of the
proceeds of the Credit, on a grant basis, an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 2,040,000 for the purposes of Part E.2 and 3
of the Project under the PPAG Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PPAG under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association whereby the Borrower shall obtain
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, including the right to:
           (i)    require PPAG to carry out Part E.2 and 3 of the
                  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  accordance with sound technical, financial,
                  managerial, public health and family planning
                  standards and to appoint a qualified coordinator
                  of its Project activities;
           (ii)   require PPAG to maintain adequate records and
                  accounts and to have them audited in accordance
                  with the provisions of Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement;
          (iii)   require that: (A) the goods and services to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
                  be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Page  5
                  Agreement; and (B) such goods and services shall
                  be used exclusively in carrying out the Project;
                  and
           (iv)   inspect, by itself or jointly with
                  representatives of the Association, if the
                  Association shall so request, such goods and
                  works carried out by PPAG.
      (e)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NCS and
PPAG Agreements in such manners as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the NCS or PPAG
Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to other non-
governmental organizations out of the proceeds of the Credit, on a
grant basis, an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 220,000
for the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project under agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the respective non-
governmental organization under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association and which shall include
substantially the provisions set forth in the NCS Agreement taking
into account the specific requirements of the mission hospitals
concerned.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part E.4
of the Project, provide contraceptives to non-governmental organi-
zations involved in family planning activities under arrangements
acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project to be executed by the
responsible departments or agencies of the Borrower.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
           (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall, on the occasion of the annual public expenditures
review to be undertaken by the Borrower and the Association, or, in
the event that such a review does not take place, not later than
December 31 of each year, furnish to the Association MOH's recurrent
budget for the next fiscal year and the three-year rolling public
investment program in the health sector, all acceptable to the
Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)  the NCS Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and NCS;
      (b)  the PPAG Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and PPAG; and
      (c)  the Borrower has appointed within MOH a full-time
coordinator and a full-time procurement specialist with quali-
fications and experience satisfactory to the Association and to be
responsible for all projects in the health sector financed by the
Association.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the NCS and PPAG
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
NCS and PPAG, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and NCS and PPAG, respectively, in accordance with their
terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Page  7
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
           PNDC Secretary for Finance
              and Economic Planning
           Ministry of Finance and
              Economic Planning
           P.O. Box M 40
           Accra, Ghana
           Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:               Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Joseph L. S. Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
MOH
Page  8
(1)  Civil works            1,480,000           100%
(2)  Drugs                  2,440,000  )
                                       )
(3)  Hospital equipment     2,060,000  )
     and spare parts                   )
                                       )        100% of foreign
(4)  Contraceptives         1,410,000  )        expenditures
                                       )        and 90% of local
(5)  Other equipment,       5,690,000  )        expenditures
     spare parts, vehicles,            )
     furniture, building               )
     materials, office                 )
     supplies and vaccines             )
(6)  Consultants' services  2,080,000           100%
     and training
PPAG
(7)  Equipment, furniture,     400,000 )        100% of foreign
     spare parts, office               )        expenditures
     supplies and vehicles             )        and 90% of local
                                       )        expenditures
(8)  Contraceptives          1,230,000 )
(9)  Training                  240,000          100%
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
NCS
(10) Hospital equipment,       540,000          100% of foreign
     spare parts and                            expenditures
     maintenance                                and 90% of local
     equipment                                  expenditures
(11) Unallocated             1,930,000
                            __________
           TOTAL            19,500,000
                            ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments  made
for expenditures with respect to Category (2) until: (i) MOH has
commenced the operation of the drug "cash and carry" scheme in a
manner satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower has
formalized its competitive bidding policy for the purchase of drugs
and MOH has established an advisory tender committee for the
procurement of drugs; (c) payments made for expenditures with
respect to Category (3) until MOH has appointed a maintenance
engineer for the hospital equipment in the Project regions; and
(d) payments made for expenditures with respect to Category (4)
Page  9
until the Borrower has established a national population commission
with functions acceptable to the Association and adequate staffing
and budgetary allocations to carry out such functions.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality
and coverage of health services; and (ii) increase the availability
and accessibility of family planning services.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Drug Supplies and Drug Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1.    Acquisition of essential drugs and vaccines.
2.    Rehabilitation of the drug supply infrastructure, including:
      (a)   acquisition of equipment and vehicles and provision of
training for MOH's directorate responsible for drug procurement/
supplies;
      (b)   rehabilitation and improvement of the central and ten
regional medical stores;
      (c)   development of sound inventory management practices;
      (d)   establishment of an independent testing laboratory for
drug quality control;
      (e)   expansion of training for pharmacists and pharmacy
technicians; and
      (f)   training for drug prescriber.
Part B:     Strengthening of MOH
      Acquisition of office equipment, furniture and vehicles and
provision of training for MOH.
Part C:     Regional and District Hospitals
      Acquisition, repair and maintenance of hospital equipment for:
1.    seven MOH operated hospitals;
2.    the three NCS operated mission hospitals; and
3.    other mission hospitals;
all in the Northern, Upper West and Upper East Regions.
Part D:     Primary Health Care
1.    Expansion and improvement of the primary health care delivery
system.
2.    Training for District Health Management Teams, including the
organization of workshops and management development courses.
3.    Logistical support for the District Health Management Teams,
including construction of residential accommodation for DMOHs and
offices for DHMTs, and acquisition of furniture, office equipment,
vehicles and radio communications equipment.
4.    Health sector related studies.
Part E:     Population/Family Planning
Page  10
1.    Acquisition of equipment, contraceptives and other supplies
for MOH operated MCH/FP delivery facilities.
2.    Acquisition of clinic equipment, furniture, contraceptives and
other supplies for about 26 PPAG operated clinics.
3.    Acquisition of contraceptives, other supplies and vehicles for
the PPAG organized community-based distribution, as well as
provision of training for volunteer agents.
4.    Acquisition and distribution of contraceptives to non-
governmental organizations involved in family planning activities.
Part F:    Prizes Fund
      Establishment and operation of a prizes fund designed to
provide incentives for superior performance by individual health
workers or health institution teams and for health promoting
behavior by communities.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000, and civil works may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Medical equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000, and vaccines, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $2,900,000, may be procured through the
United Nations Children's Fund in accordance with its own
procedures.
4.    Spare parts, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000,
may be purchased from the original supplier of the equipment in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  11
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    Overall responsibility for Project coordination shall be
vested in MOH. To this end, MOH shall establish and maintain a
Project Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of MOH's
Director of External Aid Coordination and Project Management and
consisting of the Project coordinators of MOH, NCS and PPAG.  In
order to evaluate the overall progress of the Project, a mid-term
review shall be carried out by MOH and the Association not later
than December 31, 1992.
2.    In order to facilitate the involvement of non-governmental
organizations in the carrying out of the Project and related
activities in the health sector, the Borrower shall prepare, not
later than June 30, 1991, a master framework agreement acceptable to
the Association governing the relationship between MOH and non-
governmental organizations in areas of health and population
activities.
3.    MOH shall continue its program of appointing full-time heads
of the District Health Management Teams and appoint ten additional
heads not later than December 31, 1991, another fifteen not later
than December 31, 1992, and another fifteen not later than
December 31, 1993.
4.    MOH shall expand, not later than December 31, 1991, its health
care outreach service to all regions.
Page  12
5.    MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments, not later than December 31, 1991, a program for
the expansion of the primary health care coverage.
6.    MOH shall:
      (a)   design, not later than December 31, 1991, a management
and health information system; and
      (b)   after having reviewed this system with the Association,
implement such a system not later than December 31, 1992, taking
into account the Association's comments.
7.   MOH shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments:
      (a)   not later than September 30, 1991, staffing norms for
health facilities;
      (b)   not later than March 31, 1992, a manpower master plan;
and
      (c)   not later than June 30, 1992, a master training program
for health sector staff.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: in the case of
Special Account MOH, Categories (1) through (6); and in the case of
Special Account PPAG, Categories (7) through (9); as such Categories
are set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent to $1,000,000 in the case of Special Account MOH, and
equivalent to $100,000 in the case of Special Account PPAG.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of such
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into such Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
Page  13
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
Page  14
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
