Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICHAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1991-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Februarv 9, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mgy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EUUIVALENTS
(as of January 12, 1977)
.'s 1.00                       Paise 100
US$1.00             =           Rs 8.91
As 1.00             =           US$0.1122
Rs 1 million        -           US$112,2(I0
(Siitce September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been off icially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies.   As these currencies are
now floating, tthe U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change.  Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at
LUS$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April I - M1arch 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronymis Used in this Report
AEO     -    Agricultural Extension Officer
BSE     -    Orissa Blureau of Economics and Statistics
COL     -    Governiment oE India
GOo     -    Covernment of Or issa
HYV     -    Higlh Yielding Varieties
OLuAT   -    Orissa Uniiversity of Agricultur-e and Technology
T S     -    Timely Reporting Svstelm
VLW     -    ViLlage Level Worker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to India for the equivalent of US$20 million on standard IDA
terms to help finance a project for increasing agricultural production, par-
ticularly foodgrains, in Orissa.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which ii,cluded two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since Independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to b'e completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and
possibly even decline. Although national income has increased in most years,
there has been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast
masses of the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government
has initiated a-variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the
lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200
million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Kerala Agricultural Development
(Report No. P-1953-IN), dated February 3, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is the basis for an upturn in the growth rate of the
economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors have been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in 1975/76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the
previous record of 1970/71 by 8%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached
new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In
1976/77 a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of
foodgrains. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76 and by
a further 15% in the first eight months of 1976/77. Finally, the increased
supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with
the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual
stop to inflation. From April 1975 to March 1976 the Wholesale Price Index
fell by 8.1%. Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11.0%,
it was still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.
8.        On the balance of payments front there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in 1975/76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in 1976/77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports
was stabilized in 1975/76 (although there is likely to be a rise in 1976/77),
and steel imports have been progressively reduced in 1975/76 and 1976/77 as
a result of increased domestic production. Finally, increased production
and lowered world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply.
As a result of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in 1975/76 and
the trade deficit fell by almost $100 million. Development so far in 1976/77



- 3 -
suggest a more dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. More-
over, since net aid rose 49% in 1975/76 and India received substantial in-
flows of private remittances during the past one and a half years, reserves
rose by almost $800 million in 1975/76, and are continuing to rise at a com-
parable rate in 1976/77. These reserves give India added flexibility in
adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the future.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposed a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduced new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energv sector in India was characterized by shortages even
before the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil
prices, coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power
shortages - caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor



monsoons - led to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of
existing facilities and to a much higher priority for investments in the
energy sector. The effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are
now starting to be felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each
of the last two years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and
restrictions have been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and
natural gas have improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High
field. Crude production from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in
1976/77 and to reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this
basis, petroleum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as
increased crude production and expanded refinery output more than offset
increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of over 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and DMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three



-5-
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports in 1975/76. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials) and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$785 million has been
repaid, and US$1,651 million was still undisbursed as of December 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of December 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.0 million, US$25.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of December 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production



- 6 -
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth, remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components continues to be an important
element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
June 30, 1976, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$701 million, of
which US$266 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$435 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



- 7 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND ORISSA
22.       Agriculture is India's most important sector.   It employs approxi-
mately 70 percent of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP, and pro-
vides a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural sector
has been on increasing foodgrain output through improved yields resulting
from more intensive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV), fertil-
izer, pesticides and irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a national
objective, investments in foodgrain production have been given top priority
by Government and will continue to be the focus of national attention for the
foreseeable future.
23.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3 percent per annum. This low overall rate, which has been very
much affected by serioVs droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and
1973, obscures considerable variations over shorter periods, between crops
and between regions. The success of high yielding varieties produced in-
creases in wheat production of about 20 percent per annum between 1967 and
1971. The effects of this "green revolution", which primarily affected wheat,
have been concentrated in north western India, very largely on account of
the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the availability of irri-
gation. The strategy of the Government is to spread this technology to other
regions, especially to the Eastern States which have a large untapped agri-
cultural potential and harbor a large proportion of India's poorest farmers
and agricultural laborers.
Agriculture in the Eastern Region
24.       In support of the Government's strategy, since September 1975,
Bank staff have been engaged in state-by-state reviews of a number of Eastern
States to analyze the problems and, more importantly, assist in devising
short-term action programs to start developing the potential within these
States. These reviews have reconfirmed in some detail much that was already
known about the Region. There is a vast groundwater resource yet to be
developed; and the farm service and supply institutions are in very poor con-
dition and operate at low levels of effectiveness. But the under-utilization
of modern inputs is first a demand problem rather than one of sheer avail-
ability. Farmers in the Eastern Region are caught in a cycle of low pro-
ductivity, low income and low investment. Their holdings are small and the
fragments they cultivate even smaller. They are poorly placed to take on the
risks associated with the new but more costly technology. There are some
adopters of the modern technical package of tubewells, HYV seeds and fer-
tilizer, but the package is mainly applied on irrigated wheat and rice in
the dry season. Up to three-quarters of the region's foodgrain, however,
is produced during the monsoon period from traditional varieties and using
traditional cultural practices that minimize the risk of crop failure but
result in low productivity.



25.       These State reviews have also succeeded in identifying short-term
action programs which typically concentrate on reorganizing extension services,
improving adaptive research, accelerating the development of low-cost shallow
tubewells and simple dug wells, and improving the efficiency of existing pub-
lic irrigation schemes. With some exceptions, it has not proven possible to
identify parallel measures to strengthen short-term credit and input supply
services in the same time frame because of the weaknesses of available insti-
tutions. However, in the Eastern Region, where few farmers have any expe-
rience of modern inputs, credit or irrigation, a rapid shift to a high-input
technology is at best difficult. Rather, as an immediate first phase, the
State reviews have stressed the potential for achieving a significant and
broadly distributed increase in production by improving basic cultural prac-
tices, using the resources already available to small farmers, in particular
Eastern India's high rainfall and abundant labor.
26.       The key to this development is a strengthening of research and its
reorientation toward the needs of the small farmer, and a reorganization of
extension services along lines that have recently proved highly successful
elsewhere in India. First tried in canal commands of three Bank Group
assisted projects in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Ln 1011-IN, Cr 502-IN and
Cr 562-IN), where dramatic production increases are being achieved, the new
extension service puts great emphasis on concentration of efforts, on system-
atic and regular training, close supervision of staff at all levels, and a
fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups. Coupled with an expanded pro-
gram of adaptive research, the system has the capacity to transmit appropriate
recommendations from the policy maker to the village level quickly and effec-
tively and at little extra cost to Government. Once farmers have increased
their production and hence confidence in the extension service, they can be
expected to adopt more productive, but more costly technology based on pur-
chased inputs and on-farm investments. Hence, this short-term strategy may
prove an important first step towards breaking the vicious circle of poverty.
If it succeeds, it will create the very demand now lacking for the inputs of
the modern technology.
27.       This project in Orissa is the first of a series of projects re-
sulting from the Eastern State reviews. All these projects will have as
their centerpiece a research and extension component. In addition, where
possible and depending on the readiness of State level institutions, there
will be a provision for other components essential for boosting agricultural
production in the short term or laying the groundwork for longer term ad-
vances.
Orissa
28.       Agriculture is dominant in Orissa's economy contributing about 60
percent of total domestic product. About 80 percent of the population of
nearly 25 million depends directly or indirectly on agriculture and about 75
percent of the work force is engaged in it. The land area covers some 15.6
million ha representing 5 percent of India's total. The cultivated area is
6.5 million ha or about 42%. The bulk of the balance is forest, covering 32%.



29.       Paddy is the most important crop occupying 70 percent of all crop-
ped area. Over 95 percent is grown in the kharif season, June to December,
when moisture is available from the monsoon. In the coastal areas, paddy is
virtually the only crop grown in kharif; in upland areas the cropping pattern
is slightly more diverse; small grains, pulses and oilseeds are being grown
in addition to paddy. About 20% of the area is double cropped, most of the
second crop coming after kharif paddy on residual moisture. Statewide, in
both the kharif and rabi seasons, other cereals (wheat, maize, millets and
barley) take up another 7 percent and pulses 14 percent of the cropped area.
This leaves about 9 percent of the cropped area for oilseeds (6 percent),
fibers (1 percent), vegetables and spices. Rice yields in Orissa, as in
other states of Eastern India, are low in relation to the rest of India and
similar areas in Asia. Peak achievement has never exceeded about 1.5 tons
of paddy per hectare. Yields are about twice as high in Punjab, Haryana and
Tamil Nadu. In neighboring West Bengal, with similar climatic patterns,
yields are 30 percent higher, though a higher proportion of the crop is
irrigated, about 40 percent as compared to close to 15 percent in Orissa.
30.       There have been increases in Orissa's agricultural production in
the past decade, due to increased area under cultivation, (about 350,000 ha)
increased irrigated area (close to 500,000 ha), and introduction of HYV rice
and wheat. However, with a quickly growing population, per capita production
has actually declined. Agriculture and allied activities account for about
60% of State income at current prices, while the corresponding figure for all
India is less than 50%.   Agriculture accounts for about 57% of income in
Orissa compared with 30% in West Bengal, 46% in Bihar and 47% in Assam.
31.       The pressures of population and poverty in rural Orissa are consi-
derable. Among Indian States, Orissa not only has the highest percentage
living in rural areas (over 90%) but is also probably the poorest state
in terms of per capita income. The population is stratified along caste,
class and tribal lines, and is caught in a web of social-economic relation-
ships and land tenure systems which further hamper agricultural development
and modernization. Small farmers, with holdings of less than 2 ha, represent
roughly 2.6 million out of a total of 3.4 million cultivators' households.
Although these farmers operate over 76% of all operational holdings, they
control less than 40% of total cultivable land, while farms of 5 ha or more
(representing less than 7% of holdings) account for about 30% of the land.
Adding to the skewed distribution of income in the rural areas are the
landless and agricultural laborers, who constitute an additional 1.8 million
households. Complicating the problem of size of holding is fragmentation, each
holding being comprised, on average, of 3 plots. The prospects for progress
against the deeprooted and longer term problems would be improved if some
production gains could be achieved in the short and medium term.
32.       The key to shorter term production gains lies in improving the qua-
lity of what may be called the "delivery system". Orissa carries out import-
ant rice research which has produced a large number of improved varieties
and technology; yet few farmers use them. Orissa is a major producer of nit-
rogeneous fertilizers, yet uses only about 50,000 tons on its own land. The
Government stresses the importance of credit as a catalyst for development,



- 10 -
yet the present state of land survey and ownership records, which provide
the collateral basis for investment credit, is antiquated and incomplete.
Effective agricultural policy making and planning require up to date in-
formation on land use, yields and improved farm management techniques, yet
the existing data base is sparse and inaccurate and the capacity to gather
and process information is sorely deficient. The extension service is not
short of competent and motivated workers, yet it lacks the ability to deliver.
The proposed project is an attempt to deal with these problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The Orissa review in September 1975 was the first of the Eastern
State reviews (see paragraph 24 above). It was a joint exercise between GOI,
the Government of Orissa (GOO), and Bank and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP)
staff. An action program was identified, based on projects for agricultural
intensification, irrigation and drainage, and agricultural credit. A first
project was prepared by GOO, with CP assistance, in December 1975 and Feb-
ruary 1976 and appraised in April/May 1976. Negotiations of this project
were held in Washington in January 1977. The Borrower was represented by
Mr. A. Pande. A credit summary is given in Annex III. A report entitled
"Appraisal of the Orissa Agricultural Development Project," Report
No. 1301a-IN, dated February 9, 1977 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Description
34.       The project is a package of complementary components aimed at
achieving early and sustained improvement in agricultural production, parti-
cularly of foodgrains. The core of the project would involve strengthening
the extension service to bring proven agricultural practices to farmers state-
wide; and strengthening and reorienting related research. At the same time,
the base would be laid for longer term improvements in ground water develop-
ment and credit supply through surveys, monitoring, and introduction of
shallow tubewell technology. New and improved land transfer and survey
systems would provide a basis for future land consolidation and improved farm
efficiency. Agricultural statistics and data processing would be strengthened
to assist agricultural planning and policy making by Government.
Project components include:
-    strengthening of agricultural extension and related training
facilities;
-    strengthening and reorientation of agricultural research,
including adaptive research and field trials;



- 11 -
support for the design, testing, demonstration and distribu-
tion of improved animal-drawn farm implements;
improved and accelerated land surveys and land record
systems to establish land ownership and tenancy as a
basis for farm credit;
-    ground water survey and monitoring; research, design,
installation and field testing of alternative types of
shallow tubewell and pumping techniques; and
-    support for farm management data collection and evalua-
tion by the Orissa University of Agriculture and Techno-
logy (OUAT), and strengthening of agricultural statis-
tics and data processing by the Orissa Bureau of Econo-
mics and Statistics (BSE).
Project Implementation
35.       There is no need to establish any new organizations for project
implementation which would be the responsibility of existing agencies. Over-
all coordination would be through a Policy Planning and Coordination unit,
headed by the Agricultural Production Commissioner of Orissa. The unit would
meet as often as necessary and would include senior representatives of all
relevant State Government organizations as well as of GOI and the Indian
Council for Agricultural Research. The unit would coordinate and monitor
project activity, including procurement, and would report progress to the
Government and IDA. For the research and extension component, the Agricul-
tural Production Commissioner would also bring together, before each cropping
season, relevant Government officials at the Secretary and Director level as
well as key university and agricultural staff and evaluate seasonal research
results, and develop needed research trials and extension programs. This
panel of officials would also assess requirements for further coordination
of research, extension and related needs such as credit and input supply and
apprise the Policy Planning and Coordination unit accordingly for appro-
priate action to be taken.
Agricultural Extension
36.       Under the project, the agricultural extension service would be
revitalized and a new system introduced State-wide. A well-trained, highly
motivated, and technically competent single organization would be created.
The organization would be given the means to reach the majority of Orissa's
farmers with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing
production and income. The available manpower, except for supervisory staff
and trained subject matter specialists, is sufficient and of excellent poten-
tial to achieve results.



- 12 -
37.       The new system would replace the previous system of extension in
Orissa which has proved to be ineffective. Under the previous system, the
village level worker (VLW) was responsible for extension at the farm level.
However, most VLW were employed as multi-purpose workers, responsible for
many duties unrelated to agriculture. They worked under the Department of
Community Development and Social Welfare, were administratively responsible
to the Block Development Officer and supervised by him, while technically
backed by the Department of Agriculture. The Block Development Officer, in
turn, is responsible to the Collector and is also Secretary of the Panchayat
Samiti, a local political grouping. Some VLW were on special crop develop-
ment schemes, directly under the Department of Agriculture. There was little
contact between the agricultural officers of the Department of Agriculture
and the staff of the Orissa Agricultural University. Lines of command, super-
vision and technology flow were complex and diffuse. Problems were compounded
by poor training, severe transport shortage, lack of promotion opportunities,
and difficult living and working conditions.
38.       Under the project, the entire extension staff of the State has
been reorganized into a single line of command under the Department of Agri-
culture. Almost all VLW would remain in their present locations, but 70%
(about 2,500 out of 3,500) would be transferred to the Department of Agri-
culture from the Department of Community Development and Social Welfare.
Together with about 3,100 VLW already under the Department of Agriculture
and associated with special crop schemes, about 5,600 VLW would be available
for redeployment to full time agricultural extension work. This would re-
sult in an average of one VLW for every 600 farm families in Orissa.
39.       The chain of command up the line of the reorganized extension
service would include one Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) supervising
eight VLW, with AEO reporting in turn to District Agricultural Officers
who are responsible to a range (i.e. one or more districts) Deputy Director
of Agriculture.
40.       Because of the added supervisory load and work responsibilities in
the Department of Agriculture, additional managerial and supervisory staff
would be needed. A senior staff member has been appointed as Additional
Joint Director of Agriculture, Extension, to head the new extension service
and implement the reorganization. The number of agricultural ranges would
be increased from 6 to 13, to coincide approximately with the 13 existing
revenue districts. This would improve coordination with other aspects of
rural development. The additional 7 ranges would need to be staffed, each
to be headed by a Deputy Director of Agriculture who would be transferred
from existing duties. The thirty District Agricultural Officers, in turn,
would need further support if enough supervision and guidance are to be
given to AEO. Sixty Additional District Agricultural Officers would there-
fore be posted, averaging two to a district, and each would closely supervise
and guide 8-10 AEO in the field, the District Agricultural Officer directly
supervising 4-6 AEO.



- 13 -
41.       A viable field extension program needs strong technical support
by subject matter specialists. At present, there are only three at each
of the six ranges and many more would be needed under the proposed system.
Since they are not readily.available in all fields and in sufficient numbers,
their posting would be phased as they became available. Each range would
have, by the end of the third year of the project, one subject matter spe-
cialist in each of these fields: agronomy; plant protection, farm machinery;
water management; and farm management.
The New Extension Methodology
42.       Under the new agricultural extension system, an intensive farm
visit program would be introduced. The farming areas and the estimated 3.4
million farm families of Orissa would be divided into 5,600 units of 400-
800 families each, to which VLW would be allocated. Each unit, in turn,
would be divided into 8 more or less equal groups of 50-100 farm families.
Extension messages would be conveyed by the VLW to about 10 contact farmers
in each group, which the VLW would visit on a fixed day of the week, once
every two weeks.
43.       Each AEO would supervise 6-10 VLW and, at least once every two
weeks, would participate in part of each VLW program of visits to farmers,
following such a pattern as would enable him to reach every farmers' group
at least twice each season. He would check that the VLW visits and meetings
were being carried out on schedule and would assist both VLW and farmers in
technical matters. He would also assist the VLW in carrying out demonstra-
tions and simple trials.
44.       Regular one-day training sessions for VLW would be held once every
two weeks and would be an integral part of the system. In these sessions, the
extension staff would be instructed in the three or four most important recom-
mendations for their next round of field visits. The messages to be taught
would be consistent with the recommendations of the adaptive research and
extension advising panel (see paragraph 35 above) and would be taught to VLWs
by subject matter specialists and a training officer who would be assigned at
the district level. The subject matter specialists would maintain close, on-
going relationships with researchers at the regional stations and at the range
adaptive research farms, where they would also participate actively in con-
ducting field trials.
Extension and Cooperatives Staff Training
45.       Despite the considerable amount of in-field, in-service training
for the field extension staff, the basic knowledge of many of the existing
staff is poor and needs to be upgraded. There is also a need to strengthen
existing facilities for pre-service extension training and training of staff
of agricultural cooperatives. Several existing basic extension training
centers would be expanded and upgraded and a new center added in the north
of Orissa. For cooperative training, a hostel and lecture rooms would be
built at two locations and facilities at a number of other locations expanded.



- 14 -
Training for rural women would also be assisted by the project. Women play
an important and increasing role in family decision making and are becoming
progressively more involved with such things as seed selection, handling of
fertilizers, rodent control, kitchen gardens, compost making and the keeping
of animals. Each development block in Orissa has a women's social education
officer, who concentrates on improved nutrition, health, family planning,
child care, home management, agriculture and animal husbandry. There is a
strong response from rural women to the efforts of the women's social educa-
tion officers, but their limited numbers and lack of mobility severely re-
stricts the impact they can make. Under the project, mobile training units
for women's social education officers would be provided in the ten ranges
currently without these facilities.
46.       To facilitate the implementation of the extension system and train-
ing, the project would finance vehicles, housing, office accommodation,
demonstration and training equipment, fellowships for the extension service,
and incremental establishment costs such as incremental staff salaries and
vehicle operating and maintenance costs. Loans would also be financed under
the project for field staff to buy motorcycles and bicycles which is also the
best means of ensuring proper care and maintenance. Assurances were obtained
that such credit would be made available by Orissa on terms that provide
sufficient incentive for purchase (see Section 2.06 of Orissa Project Agree-
ment). Housing would be provided for the newly appointed Deputy Direc-
tors, Assistant District Agricultural Officers and Subject Matter Special-
ists and for about 35% of the VLW and AEO whose housing is now inadequate.
Assurances were obtained that adequate low cost housing would be provided to
enable VLW to live in the area assigned for their operations (see Section 2.09
(a) of Orissa Project Agreement).
Agricultural Research
47.       A production oriented applied and adaptive research program would
be set up by the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology and the
Department of Agriculture in crops of importance to Orissa. It would con-
centrate on evaluation of improved cultural practices, farming systems and
cropping patterns, and testing of improved and high-yielding varieties
resistant to the major pests and diseases in the State.
48.       The four main agro-ecological zones would be covered by applied
research stations, under the University, at Bhubaneswar (Coastal), Chiplima
(Central Plateau Tableland), Simliguda (Eastern Ghat-Highland), and Keonjhar
(Northern Plateau). In addition, adaptive research would be conducted at a
government farm in each of the 13 agricultural ranges, with the University
providing researchers on secondment to the Department of Agriculture which
would provide the support staff. Assurances were obtained that GOO will make
suitable arrangements with the University so that these stations and farms
would be included in the project and that a research coordination unit would
be established (see Schedule 2 to the Orissa Project Agreement).



- 15 -
49.       At full project development, the four applied research stations
would have 41 professionals and 165 support staff. The adaptive research
farms would have 13 Research Officers and 26 Research Assistants seconded
from the University to Department of Agriculture ranges. Assurances were
obtained that professional and support staff for these practical stations
would be permanent University staff members devoting full time to research
(see Schedule 2 to the Orissa Project Agreement).
50.       Equipment and facilities at the research stations are fair to poor
and they would be strengthened. On-farm development, including irrigation,
drainage, land levelling, roads and fencing, would be provided at all four ap-
plied research stations and some of the adaptive research farms. Buildings,
staff quarters and a 24-bed dormitory would also be provided at each of the
three stations outside of Bhubaneshwar.
Farm Implements
51.       Closely related to the extension and research components of the
project, this component is designed to focus particularly on improvement of
simple farm implements and their introduction into the Orissa farming scene.
Most Orissa farmers are wholly dependent for energy on human labor and animal
power. A major constraint to production is failure to prepare and sow land
in time. The use of improved farm implements, particularly replacement of
the wooden country plow with an iron or steel mould-board plow, would greatly
facilitate successful adoption of improved cultural practices, particularly
techniques to achieve more timely planting, increased plant population, better
moisture conservation and effective weed control.
52.       Other implements which have been produced and distributed on a
limited basis in Orissa include the disc harrow, two-row seed-drill, three-
tyne cultivator with seeding attachment, hand weeders, and low lift hand
pump. However, though these improved farm implements have been under devel-
opment and limited production for some years, many farmers away from the
main centers have not even seen an improved plow.
53.       Efforts to change this situation and promote the use of simple,
improved farm implements, particularly the mould board plow, would be made
under the project. Facilities, staff and equipment would be provided to es-
tablish an implements research and design unit at the Orissa University of
Agriculture and Technology and to expand implements production capacity by
the Department of Agriculture. Production of improved plows would also be
taken up the Industrial Development Corporation of Orissa and by private
entrepreneurs under contract with the Orissa Agro-Industries Corporation.
Design to distribution of implements under the project would be supervised
by a farm implement committee comprising Department of Agriculture, Univer-
sity and Agro Industries Corporation representatives.
Land Survey and Land Records
54.       Many of Orissa's land-holders do not have up-to-date records and
accurate village maps are rare. The lack of such records and maps is a major



- 16 -
obstacle to development. For example, cultivators without the security of
tenure provided by a firm title, are reluctant to invest in their holdings
and credit agencies, requiring land as collateral, are prevented from lend-
ing. Work on land consolidation is delayed. Conversion of share-croppers
to full ownership and enforcement of the land ceiling legislation are almost
impossible. In addition, even where land records do exist, the system for
retrieving information and updating it is cumbersome and time consuming.
Under the project, steps would be taken to improve the situation in Orissa
by speeding up completion of an ongoing statewide land survey and modernizing
the system for indexing and retrieval of land records. This project component
would be implemented by the Orissa Department of Revenue and Excise. Additional
staff and survey teams would be provided, as well as vehicles, survey and other
equipment and tents.
Groundwater Development
55.       The development of groundwater resources is important to Orissa
both in the short and long term. To assure orderly development and avoid
local over-exploitation, the project would include a three-year program of
extensive geo-hydrologic investigation and formulation of systematic moni-
toring and data collection.
56.       The Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation is qualified to conduct this
work but would need additional staff, which would be provided. Instrumenta-
tion for measuring rainfall and runoff data would be installed at 92 locations.
Seasonal and annual fluctuation of the water table would be determined from
65 specially designed monitoring wells. An inventory of existing wells would
be made, and some of these would be incorporated in the monitoring program.
A comprehensive surface water and ground water quality monitoring program
would also be included.
57.       The major equipment required would be two drilling rigs with sup-
porting transport, casing, welding equipment, electrical logging equipment,
metering and recording devices, laboratory testing apparatus, surveying
instruments, field camp facilities, and office furniture and equipment.
58.       The project would also support exploration of promising low cost
innovations in shallow tubewell technology. The Orissa Lift Irrigation Cor-
poration would implement a three-year program of research, design, installa-
tion and field testing of alternative types of shallow wells and locally
made coir filters and bamboo fabricated pipe. To conduct this program, the
Lift Irrigation Corporation would need a small number of additional staff.
Tubewell and pump components, transport, hand-boring sets, miscellaneous
tools and testing instruments, would be required together with materials for
prototype manual pumps.
Farm Management Data and Agricultural Statistics
59.       Statistical information for establishing benchmarks, monitoring and
planning agricultural performance, and analyzing costs of production and re-
turns from different farm systems would be required under the project. Much



- 17 -
of the statistical information on agriculture such as crop areas and yields
were gathered in the past by VLW, and tables and forecasts were prepared by
the Department of Agriculture. However, this system was not based on scienti-
fic sampling, was highly subjective, inaccurate and incomplete. Under the
reorganized extension service, VLW would no longer carry out data collection
responsibilities.
60.       Specific information on costs of production and returns from dif-
ferent farming systems would be collected and analyzed by the Farm Management
Data Unit which already exists at the Orissa University of Agriculture and
Technology. The unit would be strengthened with additional staff and equip-
ment to enable it to maintain a continuing sample of about 1,500 farms spread
across the State's main agro climatic zones.
61.       The Bureau of Statistics and Economics, which now produces the
only reliable statistics on agriculture in the State, based on scientific
techniques, would be strengthened to undertake the Timely Reporting System
(TRS) being adopted India-wide. The TRS is based on scientific sampling
and enumeration and would provide reliable information on area and yield of
major crops, irrigation, prices, and supplementary data on soils, labor use,
land tenure, input use, etc. A large increment of staff for the Bureau of
Statistics and Economics would be required, mainly primary and supervisory
data collection workers, since VLW would no longer be available. Sufficient
qualified persons are available, and recruitment is expected to be no prob-
lem. The project would provide incremental staff, vehicles, loans for motor-
cycles and bicycles, measuring and weighing equipment, crop cutting devices,
calculating machines and office equipment and furniture.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total project cost is about US$40 million equivalent (including
duties and taxes estimated at US$1.8 million) of which the foreign exchange
component is US$1.6 million or 4%. The proposed credit of US$20 million
would finance about 52% of project costs net of duties and taxes, and cover
the whole of foreign exchange costs plus about US$18.4 million of local costs.
The remaining local costs would be financed by Government of Orissa. The
proceeds of the credit would be channelled through GOI to GOO on standard
terms as part of Central assistance provided to State Governments for devel-
opment purposes. Details of cost estimates and financing are given in
Annex III.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Contracts for civil works (US$13.1 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small, scattered through-
out the State and among agencies, spread over time, and would not be suit-
able for international competitive bidding. There are numerous qualified
local contractors to ensure satisfactory execution of project civil works.



- 18 -
About 130 motor vehicles of various types (US$0.8 million) would be re-
quired under the project. The motor vehicles would be purchased in small
quantities as required over five years. It would be difficult to ensure
adequate maintenance and spares for a variety of imported vehicles. These
would, therefore, be procured by local competitive bidding under procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association. Scientific equipment (US$0.3 mil-
lion) for research stations would involve many small contracts from various
suppliers of specialized items. It would not, therefore, be practical to
procure these items under international competitive bidding procedures. They
would be obtained under the State Government's normal procurement procedures
which are satisfactory, utilizing local competitive bidding wherever possible.
Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$3.6 million) would
be bulked wherever possible and would be purchased following satisfactory
local competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping. Motorcycles
and bicycles (US$0.9 million) would be directly purchased locally by individ-
ual staff, according to their preferences.
64.       The credit would finance 50% of project costs.   The proceeds of the
credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expenditures for laboratory
equipment; 100% of the cost of training; 80% of locally procured equipment,
vehicles and civil works; and 25% of salaries of incremental staff. To help
expedite disbursements, disbursements against expenditures for locally procured
equipment costing Rs 20,000 or less, against civil works contracts for one or
more progress payments not exceeding Rs 50,000, and against salaries of
incremental staff would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure. The
supporting documentation would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by Government of Orissa. It would be available for inspection by IDA
during project review missions. Periodic local auditing of these certificates
of expenditure has been provided for. Disbursements against all other items
would be fully documented.
Economic Benefits and Risks
65.       The main project benefit would be an increase in yields as a
consequence of the impact of the new extension and research system. Small
farmers with limited financial resources but excess labor would be the pri-
mary beneficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing
resources rather than promoting the use of purchased inputs.
66.       Because any attempt at precise calculation of the benefits of this
type of project would be misleading, none has been attempted. Instead a cal-
culation has been made of the increase in yields that would be required to
achieve an economic rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital
(estimated to be about 12%). This proves to be a very small increase and
rainfed rice yields, presently at 800 kg/ha, would have to increase only by
8.0 kg/ha from year seven to generate a 12% economic rate of return for the
project. On the basis of the experience to date with the proposed extension
methodology in Rajasthan and in Madhya Pradesh, yield increases can be con-
fidently expected to substantially exceed the above figures. In Rajasthan



- 19 -
and Madhya Pradesh, yields have increased by about 50%, discounting the
effect of weather, within two years of the introduction of new methodology
for 50% of all farm families in the command areas of these projects.
67.       The delivery of the new methodology is particularly dependent on
an efficient organizational effort. In view of Orissa's agricultural back-
wardness and socio-economic constraints (see paragraph 31), there is the
risk that the organizational and extension effort would not succeed. There
are no ready alternatives, however, and the success in implementing the pro-
posed extension system in other States, including West Bengal which has prob-
lems similar to Orissa, indicates that this is not a serious risk. A second
generation risk would be faced when the success of the new methodology gener-
ates demand for additional inputs. If these were not met the resultant frus-
tration could affect the continuing success of the extension effort. It is
minimized by the fact that, to some extent, deficiencies in the existing
network for supplying farmers' inputs are related to lack of demand and there
is slack in the network which can be taken up to meet additional demand.
There is also the fact that the Policy Planning and Coordination unit, which
is charged with overseeing the planning of the extension effort, is also re-
sponsible for assessing seasonal input requirements. Finally, we are cur-
rently planning, together with the Central and State Governments, to support
a second generation project which would focus on the inputs supply network.
68.       Other project benefits would include a significant increase
in employment. Annual incremental on-farm employment due to the project
would rise to about 55 million man-days by year 4 and 100 million man-days
by year 8, reflecting additional employment generated by improved practices.
By year 8, total additional on-farm employment would be equivalent to about
400,000 man-years. New jobs would also be created in implement manufacture
and distribution, supply of inputs, handling of increased marketable sur-
pluses, and in farm management and agricultural statistics. Increased
agricultural activity would also have a multiplier effect, generating fur-
ther employment.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Orissa Project Agreement between the State of Orissa
and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. The establishment of a Policy Planning and Coordination Unit has
been made an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section
5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 9, 1977



ANNtEx i
LANC AIt'A (THOU KM2) I                    -----      ---------CAOM~                                          ag 
---------------                    ~~~~~~INDIA                         REFERENCF COIJN1kIFS (1910)
?T TA L    3 2 80U.5                                  MOST kECENT
aGkIC.     1781.'                     Lqt,o      1910   FST1MATE          IN00ON~51A    PHILIPPINES   fPkA I IL*
C,NP I't-P CWPTA IIISS)                   1).0a     110.o       190.0              110.0      230.0       5bo.o
'OPuLAT1i1. 410 VITAL ST4TISTII(
P~IPULATI'IN 4410-YR, '41LLIOIJI  ~     .29.0      562.7      609.6             11 6. 3      3b.9       92.8
VI PULATfr'r UENSITY
P',a SQUARE- NA,.                    131.0       '65.0      186.0              61.0       123.0       11.0
0':' SC. KV. A(;~lCULTUi.AL LAI.C    2)j5.0      290.0      319.0 /a           h05.O      279.0       66.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CKUC:E 81,IIO1, RATE PER THJOUSAt,n   43.2       42.7        39.9              45.9        44.2       3d.4
CAUiIr- DtATH i4ATt P'k THUUSAND0     23.9       18.8        15.T              20.6        13.2        9.9
INFI%JT lPI,PTALITY RATE I/THOI7JI   139.J Ia       ..  120-140o.0 /b            ..0.3               1,10.
1t(0 EXFLCTANCY AT AIPTkH (YgS)       41 .7      21.         19.5               4,5.0      55.6       5 9. 7
0RLSS -1IPR0nfUCT (CN DATE             3. 2        2.9        2.8                3. 2       3. 3         .
Pi'4.IJLA1ICf L,k.7iHI kATA II)
t'IT I.~L                              1 .a        2.1,       2.h1              2.0         3.0        2.9
1 W , A N                   ~~~~~2 .5 /b  3.?      3.1                3. 7/a     4.3         5 .0
U~kAA3 POPLUIT IO '3 (  W TOTAL)        17.9        1 9.8      20.6               17.rG /b   27.6       5.
v, TI' 14 Yl,.QS                     hi.uo,.1I                                Z... u      43.6       42.0
I1l tI 6.4 YI-A4S                    '9.9         55.3       56.7              53.5        51.6       5.
C5 9! tp5 A':f Gv~;.                   3.1        3.1         3.2               2.5         2.!        3 .0
0,.. 114 rlL4,rS R.TI,I                 0.8         .8         c.!               0.9         0.9        3.8
1lK-Pl  I:FfPtNIE%CY . AT I0.        1.3 Ls.     ..         2/b.c.15                                 1.5
ACCFUPTOt.S lCJPt'LAT iVL, 1 Hi'JI)  flOG.) /d 11.30e.0   26566.0             2 ,9. 3     3 54. 0    2531.0
ubl!tS (IC OF~1A, WU'41-INI              ..                  15.5 /d.                       2.0         1 .6
I hPLf T'lIT
I )TAL 1681. 'I, CE I I H:15A31IJ   143-03.0          ..   221000.0 /b.s                  1230 . 0   31400k. 0
LAsLI FC.tC, Ifs AL;'ILI'LTIIKIII       7 3.j        ..        72.0 F                         55.0 /a   44.0
UKsL'Pl 19!;l IJ, OF La.0C4 EIACt)      1.0 /e                 2.0    f                      7 .0
INCI(- UISTRIdITiION
3 jI PLIVATE INCGME RiCtU vt-
HIGII"ST  %1 CF HU11SrHOLUS           26.7        25.0          .                            .        35 .3/a
UP IGHUST 0OF4IS.H0LrS          51.7      `~3 . 1.B11bl ~
L iG,tST  2 UA 3~F HCUS0'I:LDS         41         4.7a                                                   0
t 1.~ST 4'.3AL  HIuSIHuLLUS          13.6       13 . 17.L 1j.o7a
1I-,It,JTI,iU Oi- LAbU '4:.tQ54IP
4. %N7., li TitP 101 11. uo,IJPS          .                      ..                                     45.0
A L4,rl 8Y SBALLFST 108 o4NERS            ...                                       ..                    1.5
9H17.LTH 4ND1 N7T10IT ION
''u I.UA T I0  Pf7 PIIYSIL.IN         5.10U.0 /f  4R00.0     1,62(C.03 n,.                            1 953.)
Pi11.VJA 1Ut PIP NW!PIT-' VE.3!Cf      -1 (/j 51 13.u       1,26    a -&5      31.                    3 303.0k
:`.P-lt.TjCP P [-Rk,)SPIAL L~F.  'i  1(20.0                        1 T'. D     8350.0      zb3.3
W43 CAPITA SUPPLY Or 
CAL.O'E 11  1 'IF 'TO;OIPF 8171TS)    9 5.3      9 3.0       9Li.0 /h           81.3J     10Kx.0      109.u
PD9TF IN IG$PAMS PYF DAY I            5A. 0      33.3        52.0 79           4 3.3       45.0      (04.U
-CF WHILH ANIMAL ANTI PULSE         19.0/ L    lb1.0         .                14.0       22.0       39.u
';E1tTH w,TE i/THOU) AiFS 1-4           44.0         .            .                           9.0
fLJ.JS TEll 8;.QtLL;4ENT 1 .T I)
PIJI4AIY SCHOOL                       380        6lu          90/              69.0u      U0l. 0/b    a1.0
SEt.GIDA~~~~Y SCHOOL    90 ~~~28.0                              12. 0       411.0 7 ~2 0. a/c
VEAQS 'IF SCE-CCLING P1c1VI0EE
(FIRST ANI0 SlCUOA, L(VEI I           12.0       12.0u                          20         103        1.
VCCATIONAL F4O(1LLMENT                                                            1.          03         L.
(A OF~ SECCN4LAPYI                    '30         6. CL /      ..29.0                       6.0 /c    1 7.0
AOULT LIYIFACY RATE (%I                 2.,.C       33.0       J. ..j/b.i           ..                  6.
NOUSING
CCCUJPIEO UWELLINGS WITHLUT                                                                                .
ACCESS TC ELEC!81C113
1I JF- ALL DWELLINGS)                   .....                                    .          3.0 /d    48.0
---..AI ULIFLLINGS COINNtCTEII
C CNASI IMPT ION
PAUlO IJECLIVERS IPEt 11H0U PJP)         5.0       21.0        23 .              114.0       45.0        60.0
PASSENGER CA.&S (P-I, THOIU P031         0.7              1.0  /I                  2.J        8.a        25.0
!-LECTRICITY 1(K11H/YR P'lk CAP)       '1.0       114.3       129.C -              Jo.      2. 5.0     IL91 .0
IAFWSPRINY (K(1(/YR PERA CAP)            0. 2       D. 3        0.3                0. 2       I. 2 If     2.7
SEE A111IS AND CEFINITILNS Dl, NEV9P91



ARNEX I
Page 2
N00ES
Ulelesa oternal- noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betoan 1959 ned t961, for t970 botween 1968 and 1970, ond for Moot Reran.t Eatimate bat..ee
1.973 ad 1975.
Rea-tt haa baenan .leted       beas    f it. n i-te  and nparablo proble of regional inaqunlity.
INDIA                 1960    /a  1951-61 avarago;     lb  1951-60;    /n  Ratio of pop.ltiao    n-der 15 and 60 and oner to labor force aged 15-59;       Id  1964,
7;e gogietered applineeIto for oork;     7f  1962;    L&  Innindiag aidai,ee, both a         -aaad nidit-  regiatared, not ai prantintag
to the ...uorry,   /b   1957;   /1   1960-62;   fl   6-13 and 14-19 fence of age respe-ri-ly,       /k HRo.n.holda.
1970    Ia   1967-68;    /b  5-Il yoara of age,     /n  1967.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATR       /a   1972.   /b  1971;    /n  Ratio of populntone onder 15 sad 60 ond ove      to labor forte aged 15-59;
7;d Rational   rogree 0ely;    Ia   AIR entinata of labor forte in age group 15-59.      IBRD report gRee   a figure
of 160.4 nillion baned on tba 1971 populatio     tene..o.  The difforenre to due to oboagna to the definitrton
of a eorker    In the 1971 cneena, parsoes were .1ln..lfied only on rh. banta of tbntr naib ontivitie..
bThe led to the encluelon, of sevral    -ategortee, .eho -o bhuneotos.       /f  Regloitrd oppli.ctne    for work,
/A   Ilodting nidaiv-e;     /h  1969-7L averge;       it  Population 10 yan-   and over;    /i  Hlvuoeb1do.
INONESnItA           1910     /   1961-71,    /b  1971.
PHILIPPlINES          1970    I   An prt.entIngo of emPlyion-t,     lb  7-12 and 13-16 yanre of age -eopeint-ly;        it  Nut iarlodiag private vo-tinnal     -rbarle
or vocationl abort tern roar... ;      Id  1967, honohbld ;      Ia  Ieeide only.
BRAZIL.               1970    /a   tronoinally a-tie population,       lb  Hoapital pernonno1;     /n  12-16 yeare of age.     Id   I-nide only.
09, July 21, 1976
DEtFRINTION$ OP SOCIAL IRDICATORS
Land Area (thou he 7                                                                  P.p.l.ti.n petara laig perena - Popultotlo     divided by nambor of prerttrtag
fTal - Total   -ufor- area runPriaig land area and iInland ratero.                      nate and female grad uate aur.ee, "trained" or "nortified" n-r... and
mrc .   ,a r-t-a  eatiente of ogrltultoro1 am     nee..d tempararily or             aooiliary peroo..nel with training or ropor i--r
perna..ently for crrpa, p-eturee, norket 6 kitrhen gardens or to lie                Pupolatino per brapito1 bed - Population divided by nabhe       of boepirt1 bede
fl Inn.                                                                               a-iloble in pobIir and private general and apetialined bonpito1 and
rohai-ill .tl     . cntrs; e.. ludraa.reing hoo-   and eatabliohanota for-
GNP1 per covit, (25    -IGNP per an pita .ret    .ee  at.current enrkotprice,            _Cutdiat and prvnterre.
_calclatd by ann      ncorimethd        .n,nId inhAln7927               od)          e   aianrlo of caoren7             of eoirenoI-Computed Iron energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 dato.                                                             eqatoalent uf net food auppylte    avollablo to.coutry porno.pita per day;
available epi-e ronprine donniltpouto,,oot                     eeeprs
Poplation and offl otaietia                                                            ad .rogain atc; nt epple                 elde  nmlfeed,aoe          qat -
Pnual (i-cr. olIlirel -As of July flint       if art  ..ilblt ies uend in food pro..e.elng oae                       annnddtioin              rqteen
--orge of tar end-yea     entira...; 1960, 1970 ad 1975 da.ern estimated by FAO ba.ed on pybyelrlglcul vodo fcr annea                                     activity
red health t..aid-ring -ni-cnotnl1 t nynratorn, bo.dy enighte, age and
icuolo  eaty -por.e.ar    ha-    id-year populat-on per aqoare ktlo-            non diatribo tions of population, rod a11oning 10% icr conic at bonee-
rater 7155 bectoree)    f total are, bigi.I.            -..          o      .           old lvl
Pcrulntion denity - par encore ha of aci.ln              optdr         befr           per ..pit. aupply of protet    (green par day) - protein ma-a-t of per
agricutural  and ony,                                                             caiantspp          I ffo     e   a,ntaPply of foodl In drfinod on
above-; rquiremonYta for all c-ootrn     etabl-hbad by tODA E-nanic
Vital anulatitros                                                                      ROns..rib S.aiman pr-cido for amli li_.al1--cc          of 60 grove of trial
Crode birth rota per thaneand, -v-rag- Arnul live hirtbe pe r thoneand                   protoin per day, ond 70 grove of on-Io     and pulo- protein, of obith
of aid-year poptlation, ten-year arithnoetir -orage      enodiog in 1960 ned           10 gree   hoald be nnimo1 proteni, th..e etadardo urn boor than thoe.
19170, and five-yea8rave1rage ending in 1975 for moot tre..e. t cotnate,              of 75 gree   of total protein and 23 gr--e of annea      prota' manna
Crode death rate teaib    .ond averageAnnualI deatha per theunand of aid-                ovrage for the enrid, proprend by FA0 in nha Third World Pood Surety.
year population; ian-year or Inieetir avroneding in 1960 nod 1970 and                Por tapito prd-yPotein ongyfnnoia        ndpla-prti            nply of food
fie-er average ending ia 1975 for 000t recent nottete                              derived free antoal a'nd ple       ngonprdy
infant nortality rate (IthouS     Annual doothe oIf infante    ndeda  one year of     Dcath rat C7 /thoc) aRea 1-4 -Acecol doutbo Per tbcoo...d in ago grccp
aga per tho...and lIIo blrthe,                                                        1-4 year, in children in thia age groap, ouggo-id an an          d-naCr of
'if. ernoe tancy at birth (yra)     A-oroge camber of yearn of life remining            nal1-tritio..
at birth; ..snally floeyea     __geran  en ding in 1960, 1910 and 1975 for
dec_lopiagn'ounir in.                                                                dunation
Croon reord-cti-nrte -Acerage        neeher of lIve daughtero .non..a.eill            Adjuntod enrlflment ratio - Prteary cbo        - ool       t   fi oI ugEen o
bear In her noralreperdoctive perlod if hoh eeper ..acen pre...t.age-                 pr     tg   of prtnry echnl-.og     ppnlotInn, inclodee chIldrnnd
op-nlfic fertility    r rtes,  _aulyfine-yearavrue       ending in 1960               6-11 yearn but odjoted for different 1-cgthe ci primary educo tir
fo0ad  95ir developing ...untirea.                                             for.c.ontrina cub onth    oa   odcai       aro11nent nay anteed 100%
Popolotlon or-thb rate R%) - 'tuta    - Conp ..d annual growth rates of aid-             itane n.en pupile   reb hel. orboethe offinca1 -hbol age.
paepopulatina Ire 1950-hf, 1960-70 and 1970 -75.                                 Ad    td enr2ilmot rtir-necoadory ech2ol - Computed no bhie;
Ponulaton croeh rate  %) -ubanComputed libk grooth, rte,ofpttal.                  necoedar    nduoatl   rqoieeatlen           fr yea,rnc   aproed prinary
poplto,dfern             eilin       of _rb- atn     50  afect topra-                  i-t-tnilon; provides general,     ...ntireol or teoher tr-lnlog
hility of dta_sna         cntr io.-atru-tion                                                        for pupileof 12 in 17 yeru ci ngn;tCorrenyocdenee
leha, emplation 7% of .tota) - Rati.of curban to tonal ppolatin-;                        t.u. e  ace. general -ly enluded.
differe nt def-it'...n ofrb. an    ren  may affect c..aparaility of data            itar   of snhnnling provided (flirnt and ne     d 1-1el) - TOta     peace of
anon n   u...ir ins.                                                                   enboolieg; at eacondary local, vctional inotrc.tire nap be Pa-
Ag:n,t..1-   p.re.t)- Children (0-14 yearn), onebiag-age (11-64 years),            tial y1 o.rnoplntaly encluded.
retired     6T0y.... ..d over    as percetagna of aid-year population.           VPotitlna   Ienrllent 7% of -ec-dory) - Vocaticea1         ailtimuons   include
000' derendee..oratio  - Ratio of pnpnlotion radar 15 and 65 and n-r tn                  teoh.iral, indostrio1 or other progroo ehich      pyarate indpeyndently or
tbone of ag..1    through hA.                                                         an deparinenta of s-vodary ie-tituti       .
i.....eIt dpcoden.y ratio    -. Rtio of population  under 15 and 65 and -oe            Adltieayr.o7)-ttrtoane                        om    i   edadot)a
to the labor force In agegroop of 15-64 years.                                         porCnetage:of total adult population aged iS yearn and over.
fn,iiy ria-nina -    -ccptorn (otelati-e. thou) - C-n,litie nonber of
a....ptora of bIrth-control devin .....der nun picas of national family             ionn
pla_ite   prrgr_ aince incepli-o                                                     Peron   per roam  (erban) - Average nmber of per-ona per coon in
Iovily Ip..angln-uees 7% of married come.) - Pecovtagon of carried                       ....upied conemilona1 dwellings int uban oman; dwellinga entlude
ea_en of thud-hearing age 715-im yearn) who -e birth-control d-mi.es                  n   -pr     etnruntures nod unoccupied pane..
to al  narred -ona   in non   ago group.                                           Oco-pied denllinra nithout piped eater 7%     - Oncpiod    --teieonal
do1lingo in urban andrcoral ocean withuat i-nide or oiteido piped
Empl.yeent                                                                                ote rfacIlities as    erentg    of all recopied daoIllgn;..ig
Total labor Porte (thoa..a.d) - E.....toiC.ly acti-e pareo-, including                 Access to electricity 1%o(     l   elinne) -C_n_eIfonaldalig               u
ar,ned for..  and unemployed hut eatnding.       . hueeivs  atdet,    tc;elctr1irity i                 living quartets an yren-t of total dweliinge in urban
defletnai         ain     oneinaent          coprbl                                    an   o    r en.
Labor farco inarintc         7%   - Agricu1turu1 labor forte (in fam.ing,             Rura1 doell inns nonee-td tool1octricity 7%      - Computed an abn- for
foesr ,buntin  and fishiog)..as prnento~ge ci tota    ao    foce                 crol dwellinga only.
Onemeloyd   %oflbor forte        -neplyed ar        aualy doOmed an pee...
e  t  ble and  illling totak   ajb, not of a job on a given da~y,                oevt
reamd   t  of a' jo,   n   uneIag won     fur a specified elii_ perid            Rdoetice(pee           thou eop) - All typen of    -einiern for rodlo broad-
not     ..neding one each;fmay not be nonpacobla bet tenon ....tries doe to           rostn to ge-eru1 public perithousa.nd of populatin..a,    . enIndes nl ireneod
df    dforctd itnel  of neem-ployd oaf source of dat,       og.,, mly                 eeec      in...utrten a nd inyears chen regietratinen         aioet       n
netofc  ttisen,avlares              oploynnpn,etisrane                         neft;data for recent yearn nape ont be nonpurabi enlace none
nou-tries oboilahed lin..esing.p.
Incoen diatriatio - Perce..tage of privatet        . noe, (b.thib In cthb and.kind)    P aesnnor cars (pe  ibu Cho op ) -    -Pnsnger corn  -pmyiln  actor core set-
reeied by rithant 5%, rinheot 20%,Ipoet 20%           und pnet4%o       f              Ing lens than eight pn-r....a  . erlodes ambnlae-e, hourees and ailitory
Elanticiity (khubyr pear nor) - Alln," conoplil.of c industrial, co-
Dia.trihatios of land ownershipe- P.r..ntago     of load nemod by o-Itlhest             meca,poblic and prln-te electricity inkhil_cat boors per capita,
10% and poocest 10% of land uowner.                                                    generally booed on production data, citho-t all cnre inc bas..es in
grdoht olloing for impraadeprt         te   f  letricity.
gealth and Natrition                                                                   NeepCint (ba/yr per to) - Pe copi t        e      ornaeption in kil.Cgro
Population ant physinien   - Populotion decided by nuber of practicing                   estimated fron dometic production plca eet imports of neepriat.
phynici... quoliftod from   a odicol _che1      tetoeri-rity 1nve.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMI0C DEVULfPiEMT DATA
Gr.? PER CAPITA IN 1974 -  US$140
GNOSS WATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 b/                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US:' Bin.      j                                 1961/62-1964/65    1965I66-1)26/Z0     1970/71-1973/74
GLIP at Marlet Prices              80.4        100.0                                    S4                 37                  1.9
Gross Domestic Investment          15.1        18.8
Sross National Saving              13.9        17.3
Current Acco:nt Balance            -2.0        -2.3
Herource Gap                       -1.2        -1.5
(JTF-IT, LABOR 'OHCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
LTS'8 Bln.             %               in.     %_
Agricil ture                       24.5                 46,6            130.0   72.1          188             64
In'ustry                           11.8                 22.3             20.2   11.2          582            199
Services                           16.5                 31.1             Q0.2   16.7          542            186
Total/average                      52.6                100.0            180,4  10000          292            100
CCOVDRh?ENT FINAiiCE
General Government                            Central Governm nt
(Rs. DIn)            3% of GDP __(Rs. 3ln)                              % of GDP
1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76          1975/76        1974/75   1972 73-1974/75
Current Receipts                   107.63          18.2           17.3              112.17            9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures                98,9           16.9           16.3              112.17            8.2          8.7
Current Surplus/Deficit              8.64           1.3            1.0                -               0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures   i/           40.40            5-8          5-4                85.23            4.3           4.1
External Assistance CPP (net)       10.17            1.4          1.0                 10.17           1.4          1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66 t970/71        1971/72    1972/73     .12Ti.Z    1974L75    March 1975      March 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
.y    -.d rUasi 6n.y                       61.4       105.7      127.,      14l2.      16,.1       197-o       187.2            213.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector               40.8        56.9       69.0       82.5        92.9      102.0       102.6            107.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector              28.1        56-7       64-4       76.0        93.1      100.5       109.5            134.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                      June    197_ j  June   1976
Aloney and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0        24.4       26.3       27-9        27.2       25.5
W'holesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      181.1       138.4      207.1      254.2       313.0       316.0           290.5
,,-l .ercentagr changes in,
Nholesale Price Index                       7.7        5.5         440        9D9        22.7       23.1                        -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.9         8.6       21.3       19.6        12.6        9.8                         4.8 f/
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8        17.4       13.6       18.0        18.5       11.5                        22.9 v
a/ The per capita GAP estimate is at 1974 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1976.
World Atlas.   All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
./ Quick Estimates.
v/ Computed from trend line Of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
_/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/ Credit to Government.
2/ Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 8.
dALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1972/73      1973/74     1974/75      1975/76  M/ MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(us$ Million)                                                     uS$ Mln.         7.
Exports of Goods                   2,558        3,239       4,143        4,555                  lute Manufacturers      299           9
Imports of Goods                  -2,682       -3,971      -5,739       -6,102                  Tea                     247           7
Trade lalauie                      -  124      -  732       -1,596      -1,547         *          otton Textiles        391           11
NFS (net) 8/                       -  146        n.a.        n.a.         n.a                   Engineering Goods       390          11
Other-,               2134            62
Resource Gap                      -  270         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.                  Total                 3,4i1         100
Inrerest Payments (net)           -  237       -  233      -  260       -  261
tther Factor Payments (net) i/    -     8        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Net Transfers I                   -   50         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Balance on Current Account        -  565         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.                  EXTE2lNAL DEBT  MARCH 31  1975
Official Aid                                                                                                                       Us$ Min.
Disbulrsements                   955        1,249       1,766        2,249                  Repayable in foreign currency       i1,24'7.
Aiortization                    -445         _459         -519        -52:'                 Repa,able through export of goods       E35
Transactions with IMF                              75          530         20'                  Total Outstanding and Disbursed      11,3S2.7
All Other Items                        89         205           41         50(l
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76        17.2 percent   '
Increase in Reserves I-)            - 34         -105          38         -794
ress Reserves (end vear)           1,311        1,416        1,378       2,172                  IRhD/IDA LENDING    June 30  1976     (US$ ills.)
NeL Reserves (end year)             1,311       1,341          773       1,474
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                      IBRD      IDA
Imports                              265          720       1.451        1,417                  Outstanding and Disbursed        435     2,94c
of whichl Petroleum                265          719       1,451        1,417                  Undisbursed                      266     i,23i
Outstanding inclndiog             701    4,I4
Ixports                                41          20           26        n.e                     Undisbursed
of which  Petroleum                 37           16          17         n.a
RATE OF EXCHANGE 1/
Pr or to mid-December 1971        USSI.00 = Rs 7.5                                              After end Junle 1972       Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = us$0.133333                                         Spot Rate December 31, 1976
'hd-uDecember 1971 to             US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927                                                         approx. USS1.00 = Rs 8.901
end June 1972                   Rs 1 00 = USS0.137376                                                       approx. Rs 1 00 = iS$ 0 112
h!/ Est-mated.
! 'or 1973/74 to 1975/76. included with 'All other Items'.
1/ Ald and trade figures converted to *S dollars ising exchiange rates and ' t trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
h,1 Amortization and interest paonuencs (excluding I7iF transaction) aS a perceutaae tf merchandise e-ports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA-CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                 US$ Million -/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5
40 Credits fully disbursed                                             2,233.9
614-IN         1969   India       Tarai Seeds                    13.0      -            3.8
203-IN         1970   India       Punjab Agricultural Credit      -        27.5        10.7
226-IN         1971   India       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4         3.3
242-IN         1971   India       Power Transmission II           -        75.0        19.4
249-IN         1971   India       Haryana Agricultural Credit     -        25.0         0.1
250-IN         1971   India       Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit  -        35.0         5.8
264-IN         1971    India      Cochin II Fertilizer            -        20.0         1.0
267-IN         1971   India       Wheat Storage                   -         5.0         3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI       Industry DFC IX                59.0      -            2.5
278-IN         1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit       -        40.0         5.6
294-IN         1972   India       Bihar Agricultural Markets      -        14.0        11.6
312-IN         1972   India       Population                      -        21.2        10.3
342-IN         1972   India       Education                       -        12.0        11.4
356-IN         1972   India       IDBI                            -        25.0        16.4
377-IN         1973   India       Power Transmission III          -        85.0        49.8
378-IN         1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets      -         8.0         7.6
902-IN         1973   ICICI       Industry DFC X                 70.0      -           10.2
390-IN         1973   India       Bombay Water Supply             -        55.0        43.4
391-IN         1973   India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -         33.0         2.9
392-IN         1973   India       Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.  -        38.0        18.0
403-IN         1973   India       Telecommunications V            -        80.0        25.8
427-IN         1973   India       Calcutta Urban Development      -        35.0        18.5
440-IN         1973   India       Bihar Agricultural Credit       -        32.0        20.2
456-IN         1974   India       HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0        11.7
481-IN         1974   India       Trombay IV                      -        50.0        28.3
1011-IN         1974   India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD        52.0      -           42.4
482-IN         1974   India       Karnataka Dairy                 -        30.0        30.0
502-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Canal CAD             -        83.0        59.4
520-IN         1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer               -        91.0        51.2
521-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Dairy                 -        27.7        27.5
522-IN         1974   India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy            -        16.4        16.4
526-IN         1975   India       Drought Prone Areas             -        35.0        32.9
1079-IN         1975   India       IFFCO Fertilizer              109.0      -           94.4
1097-IN         1975   India       Industry DFC XI               100.0      -           75.4
532-IN         1975   India       Godavari Barrage Irrigation     -        45.0        38.1
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                        -       75.0        43.8
541-IN         1975   India       West Bengal Agrc. Dev.           -       34.0        33.5
562-IN         1975   India       Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD     -       24.0        22.1
572-IN         1975   India       Rural Electrification            -       57.0        57.0
582-IN         1975    India      Railways XIII                    -      120.0        56.0
585-IN         1975   India       Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -       40.0        40.0
598-IN         1975    India      Fertilizer Industry              -      105.0       103.7
604-IN         1975   India       Power Transmission IV            -      150.0       150.0
609-IN         1975   India       Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -        4.0         4.0
610-IN         1976   India       Integrated Cotton Development    -       18.0        18.0
616-IN         1976   India       Industrial Imports XI            -      200.0        31.4
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India       Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0     -          145.0
1260-IN         1976   India       IDBI II                         40.0     -           40.0
1273-IN         1976   India       National Seed                   25.0     -           25.0
1313-IN         1976   India       Telecommunications VI           80.0     -           71.6
1335-IN         1976   India       Bombay Urban Transport         *25.0     -           25.0
Total                                                          1,750.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                       762.5     22.2
Total now outstanding                                            988.0  4,089.9
Amount sold                                111.5
of which has been repaid               111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   988.0  4,089.9
Total undisbursed (including *)                                  510.3  1,140.5     1,650.8
* Not yet effective
r/I Prior to exchange ad4ustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                             Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                             Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2       -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                         6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                           49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                          11.9       -        11.9
Cancelled                        6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                        25.5      6.5       32.0
Undisbursed                     10.6       -        10.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,640.8 million as of December 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processng and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 242     Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377     Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604     Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II suffered initial delays because of problems
associated with the preparations for international bidding and the analysis
of a very large number of bids involved. All contracts have now been awarded.
Due to variations in exchange rates, an undisbursed balance of about US$2
million, by the Closing Date, is likely. For Power Transmission III, vir-
tually all equipment has been ordered; there will be a substantial cost
overrun due to international price increases, part of which is being met
from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV, bids for most of
the equipment have been invited.
Cr. No. 264     Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481     Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975, Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975, Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598     Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment.
Engineering design and procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
schedule. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on
naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equip-
ment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN
is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production
capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Miarkets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
li6n credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312     Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: Mlay 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342     Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390     Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616     Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh have been good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy
cooperatives societies have been established. Detailed design studies for
plant construction are complete. Technical services investments are being
made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan
project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent
progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy coop-
eratives at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is
to start soon. KDDC decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC
and MPDDC on the same tender would lead to a recovery of considerable time
lost earlier.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 562     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541     West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526     Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572     Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satsifactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)      Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273    National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1335    Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: MIarch 21, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:           The State of Orissa.
Amount:                  US$20.0 million
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         From GOI to GOO:  As part of Central assistance
for state development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:     The project is a package of complementary com-
ponents aimed at achieving early and sustained
improvement in agricultural production, partic-
ularly of foodgrains. This would be accomp-
lished mainly by strengthening the extension
service, to bring proven agricultural practices
to farmers statewide; and by strengthening and
reorienting related research. At the same time,
the base would be laid for longer term improve-
ments in ground water development and credit
supply through surveys, monitoring, shallow
tubewell technology, and new and improved land
transfer and survey systems which would also help
land consolidation to improve farm efficiency.
Agricultural statistics and data processing would
be extended to improve agricultural planning for
GOO and GOI.
The project comprises:
(a) strengthening of agricultural extension
and training;
(b) strengthening and reorganization of agri-
cultural research, including adaptive
research and field trials;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) improved and accelerated land surveys and
land record systems to establish land
ownership and tenancy as a basis for farm
credit;
(d) support for design, testing, demonstration
and distribution of improved animal-drawn
farm implements;
(e) ground water survey and monitoring; research,
design, installation and field testing of
alternative types uf shallow tubewell and
pumping techniques ; and
(f) support for farm management data collection
and evaluation, and strengthening of agri-
cultural statistics.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Project Costs
Components:                                           US$ Millions
Local    Foreign     Total
Extension                 10.2       0.4      10.6
Research                   4.7       0.3       5.0
Training                   2.1        -        2.1
Farm Implements            0.7       0.1       0.8
Ground Water               1.6       0.3       1.9
Land Survey & Records      5.1        -        5.1
Farm Mianagement Data      0.8        -        0.8
Agricultural Statistics    3.8       0.2       4.0
Sub-Total           29.0       1.3      30.3
Price contingencies        8.1       0.3       8.4
Physical contingencies     1.3        -        1.3
Total Project Cost 38.4        1.6      40.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                        18.4     1.6      20.0
Government of Orissa       20.0      -       20.0
Total               38.4     1.6      40.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                      FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81   FY82  FY83
(US$ million)
Annual             1.2   5.5   4.6   4.1   3.2    1.4
Cumulative         1.2   6.7  11.3  15.4  18.6  20.0
Procurement
Arrangements:          All equipment, furniture, vehicles and civil
works would be procured locally. Scientific
equipment valued at US$0.3 million would involve
small contracts from various suppliers of spec-
ialized items and would, therefore, be unsuitable
for international competitive bidding. Other
equipment and furniture valued at US$3.6 million
would be bulked where possible for local competi-
tive bidding except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when purchase would be by prudent
shopping. About 130 motor vehicles valued at
US$0.8 million to be purchased over five years
would be unsuitable for international competi-
tive bidding as it would be difficult to ensure



ANNEX III
Page 4
adequate maintenance and spares for such a small
number and variety of vehicles. Motorcycles and
bicycles, valued at about US$0.9 million, would
be directly purchased locally, by individual
staff, according to their preferences. Civil
works contracts valued at US$13.1 million would
be small, scattered and spread over time and,
therefore, not suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. All local bidding would be
according to procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Rate of Return:          Not calculated (see paragraph 66 of
main report).
Appraisal Report:        No. 1301a-IN, dated February 9, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - ORISSA AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I    Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken by the country to prepare the project
During discussions between the Government of India (GOI)
and the Bank in New Delhi in November 1974, it was agreed
to review the Eastern Region, in which the potential for
increased production was greater than any other part of
India, to assess the agricultural potential, identify
critical constraints, design action programs and identify
projects to achieve rapid increase in foodgrain production.
The first review was of Orissa, in September, 1975, and was
a joint exercise between GOI, the Government of Orissa,
and Bank and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) staff and
consultants. A short-term action program was identified,
based on projects for: Agricultural Intensification;
Irrigation and Drainage; and Agricultural Credit. The
first was subsequently prepared by GOO, with CP assistance,
in December 1975 and February 1976.
(b)     The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Orissa with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program.
(c)     Date of first presentation to the Association and date of
first mission to consider the project
March 1976. May 1976.
(d)     Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 12, 1976.
(e)     Date of completion of negotiations
January 13, 1977.
(f)     Planned date of effectiveness
June 1, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Section II    Special IDA Implementation Actions.
None.
Section III Special Conditions
(a) GOO to establish a policy planning and coordination unit
to oversee project implementation and engage in broader
agricultural activities such as preparation of agricultural
development programs and advising GOO on policies and
implementation strategies(special condition of effective-
ness paragraph 35).
(b) To help ensure mobility of field staff, GOO to provide
credit facilities to staff on terms that provide suffi-
cient incentive for staff to purchase suitable means
of transportation (paragraph 46).
(c) Adequate, low cost housing to be provided by GOO to enable
VLW to live in areas assigned for their operations (para-
graph 46).
(d)  GOO to make suitable arangements with OUAT so that specified
research stations and farms would be included in the project,
and suitably staffed and coordinated (paragraphs 48 and 49).



IBRD 12339
C<  7t                                               ST CHli)A B3'  | E4-  Ts;nnch\35'   /  t7 omFedpol X   .JX        BCMO.heAr   \   7-  SFPTFNBER W96
PAK STAN,  - .                                             t><<y                      /     H   A   R 
I N D I                                                      A-                                                 -     EST BENGAL
111 b , h~~~~~.lUPMA                                                                                          hRT#SRT... .     .a/1 i5@><<Snioh \  / oppdO.
SUNOAR ARH                                            T2 
A B            , /          -L                    At     A      ,ffl,r,,,.  S--i--l  g      - A
SeA
p _T,_B.9SRxa  ,                                                  0-0  K   AR                B.S
7'  'I,";-                                                                               ~BO               BALAIRET   -~:5
I5/                      t49dr = >mdJtMN tro. R, GIRv/l0.O
(~~ ~ ~~~~    A  L  A  N~\ 5<\              2   A=                                      v r
0      R      I           --\a    A Q                         D, . Cd,pPo2,
t4.'   2C/BT-R A-.* NURI DBA H RD4
AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
13  Ad.p9',,. -.-h-so,on-
-d                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V'1IIT.  -kT<4S (VLWI
0. COroIewIOS1'
I   d  -J,                                            c,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M..OB~I  l,421.I  ok~S
N.Toe ...~, dS h-qt- f.--n d-I
Q  F,  *.d,edTTS  fs9AdI'
0    T   0   aT  9   lOB  IT  242  IT
7  A N DH RA    P RAD E SH                                                                            WMISS     ~
2,SflTTTTSTTTR,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              -.



