Report No. 1301a-IN                                                                    FILE  COPY
India
Orissa Agricultural Development Project
February 9, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Us$1                  =     Rupees (Rs) 9.00
Rs 1 = Paise 100            US$0.111
Rs 1 million (M)      =     US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1,000 kg                   = I metric ton (T) =   0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                    -   1.09 yards  =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                               =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         2                       =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometSr (km )                       =   0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m )                             =  35.39 cubic feet
CROP SEASONS
kharif              rainy season             June - October
rabi                dry season               October - March
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AEO   -    Agricultural Extension Officer/s
ARDC  -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BDO   -    Block Development Officer/s
BSE   -    Bureau of Statistics and Economics
CAD   -    Command Area Development
CP    -    FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CRRI  -    (Central Rice Research Institute
DAFP  -    Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
DAO   -    District Agricultural Officer/s
GOI   -    Government of India
GOO   -    Goverment of Orissa
HYV   -    IHigh Yielding Variety/Varieties
ICAR  -    Indian Council of Agricultural Research
NCDC  -    .National Cooperative Development Corporation
OUAT  -    Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology
OLIC  -    Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation
VLW   -    Village Level Worker/s



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................................. i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................                    1
II.    BACKGROUND ..... .........................................                    I
A.  The Agricultural Sector in India ....................                     1
B.  The Agricultural Sector in Orissa ...................                     2
III.  THE PROJECT ......................  7
A.  General Objectives and Description ..................                     7
B.  Detailed Features  ...................................                    8
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ...........            ..      ...............    15
A.  Cost Estimates  ......................................    15
B.   Proposed Financing  ..................................    16
C.   Procurement  .........................................    17
D.   Disbursements  .......................................    18
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .............................    18
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMER BENEFITS  ....                 ...........    20
VII.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .....................   22
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................    24
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to
India in May/June 1976, comprising Messrs P. Nelson, Y. Elkana, G. Slade,
H. Stier, B. Woods (IDA); J. Cole (CP); H. Vieilhescaze, B. Babcock,
S. Freiberg (Consultants); and Ms R. Mason (IDA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in Orissa
Table 1  Area, Production and Yields of Mlajor Food
Crops 1970/75
2   Population by Districts (1971)
3   Land Distribution and Tenancy
4  Yearly Rainfall by District 1965/74
2.   Agricultural Practices
Appendix 1   Proposed Packages of Practices
Table I  Yield Assumptions under Packages
2   Projected Uptake of Packages of Practices
3.   Agricultural Extension
Figure 1 Proposed Organization of Agricultural Extension
IBRD 16385
2 Present Organization of Agricultural Extension
IBRD 16386
4.   Agricultural Research
5.   Farm Implements
Table 1   Introduction of Farm Implements and Improved
Practices on 2 ha Rainfed Farm
2  Ultimate Market Potential for Farm Implements
3   Expected Distribution of Improved Farm Implements
4   Farm Implements Present & Proposed Prices
6.   Ground Water Surveys and Monitoring
7.   Shallow Tubewell Technology
8.   Input Distribution in the Cooperative Sector
Table 1  Recommendations for Distribution Margins for
Urea 1965-76
2   Proposals for Fertilizer Distribution Margins
9.   Land Records and Land Survey
Appendix 1  Terms of Reference for Consultant
10.   Agricultural Credit
Figure 1  Organization of Cooperatives IBRD 16370
Figure 2   Organization of State Cooperative Department IBRD 16272
11.   Cooperative Training
12.   Basic Training of Extension Staff
13.   Farm Management Data Unit
Appendix 1   Job Descriptions and Qualification of Senior Staff
2   Implementation Schedule
14.   Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing
15.   Project Cost Summary



-2-
16.   Agricultural Extension Costs
Table 1  Summary
2   Incremental Investment in Buildings & Office
Equipment
3   Incremental Investment in Vehicles
4   Incremental Staff Salaries
5   Incremental Vehicle & Other Operating
17.   Agricultural Research Costs
Table 1   Summary
2   Coastal Zone (Bhubaneswar)
3   Central Plateau Tableland Zone (Chiplima)
4   Eastern Ghat - Highland Zone (Simliguda)
Applied Research Program
5   Northern Plateau Zone (Keonjhar)
6   Research Coordination Unit (Bhubaneswar)
7  Adaptive Research Project (13 Farms)
18.   Cooperative Storage and Transportation Costs (To be financed by NCDC)
19.   Cooperative Training Costs
Table 1  Summary
2   Summary by Unit
3   Buildings, Vehicles, Furniture & Equipment
4   Incremental Salaries & Operating
20.   Extension Training Costs
Table 1  Summary
2   Training Center
3   Incremental Salaries & Operating
4   Training of Rural Women
21.   Land Records and Land Survey Costs
Table 1  Summary
2  Land Record Buildings
3  Land Records Equipment & Establishment
4  Land Survey Vehicles
5   Land Survey Establishment
22.   Farm Implements Costs
Table 1   Summary
2   OUAT Farm Implement Design Unit
- Workshop Equipment & Vehicles
3   OUAT Farm Implement Design Unit
- Staff & Other Operating
4   DAFP Farm Implement Manufacture, Development &
Demonstration Equipment & Vehicles
5   DAFP Farm Implement (Manufacture) Development
& Demonstration - Staff & Other Operating
23.   Ground Water Survey and Monitoring Costs
Table 1   Summary
2   Equipment
3   Establishment



-3-
24.   Shallow Tubewell Costs
Table 1   Summary
2   Equipment
3   Establishment
25.   Farm Management Data Unit Costs
Table 1   Summary
2 Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture
3 Staff & Operating
26.   Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing Costs
Table 1   Summary
2   Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture
3   Establishment
27.   Project Financing -
28.   Financial Implications for the Government of Orissa
29.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements and Implementation
Schedules -
30.   Terms of Reference for Policy Planning and Coordination Unit
31.   Yield and Production Tables
Table 1  Area, Yield Assumptions and Derived Production
2 Yield Assumptions for Package of Practices
32.   Farm Budgets
Table 1 0.75 ha Rainfed Farm
2 2 ha Rainfed Farm
3 5 ha Rainfed Farm
4  0.75 ha Irrigated Farm
5 2 ha Irrigated Farm
33.   Marketing and Prices
34.   Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Table 1  Economic Analysis
2   Economic Price for Paddy
Charts: Project Organization - World Bank 16979
Government Organization - World Bank 16980
Map: Orissa Agricultural Intensification Project - IBRD 12339
SUPPLEMENT
The following material is filed in a Supplement to the appraisal
report available on request from the Projects Division. This material is
additional to, and includes, Annexes 2-14 from the appraisal report.
ANNEX
2.   Agricultural Practices - Background Information
3.   Agricultural Extension
Table 1  Plan and Schedule for Reorganization of Extension
2   Four Week Training Program for Range Staff
5.     Appendix 1 - Orissa Agro-Industries Corporation



- 4 -
8.   Input Distribution in the Cooperative Sector
Appendix 1 - The National Cooperative Development
Corporation
2 - Table 1   Rate of Consumption of N+P+K during
Karif and Rabi Seasons of 1973/74
2   Storage Capacity at Primary Coopera-
tives in 1975/76
3   Additional Storage Requirements for
Primary Cooperatives Societies
4   Total Storage and Truck Regional
Cooperative Marketing Societies
5   Additional Storage and Truck Require-
ment for Regional Cooperative Market-
ing Societies
3 - Table 1   Fertilizer Use 1973/74 and Projected
Requirements for 1979/80 and 1983/84
2   Fertilizer Use 1973/74-75/76 and
Estimate for 1976/77-83/84
4 - Financial Implications of Storage Investment
by Primary Cooperative Societies
5 - Economics of Truck Ownership by RCMS
11.   Cooperative Training
Appendix 1 - Upgrading of Cooperative Training Institutions
2 - Staff Currently Employed in the Cooperative Movement
12.   Basic Training of Extension Staff
Appendix 1 - New Pre-service Training Course
2 - Practical In-Field Training for VLW
January 18, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Eastern India, including Orissa, is the country's "rice bowl".
Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields are low, and production has
barely kept pace with population growth. During discussions between GOI
and IDA in November 1974, it was agreed jointly to review the Eastern
States, starting with Orissa, to identify critical constraints and esta-
blish a short term action program. Orissa, covering 15.5 M ha with about
6.8 M ha of cultivable land, and with a population of about 26 M contains
about 5% of India's land and 4% of its population. Farmers with less than
2 ha represent roughly 2.6 M households, cultivate 75% of all holdings, but
control less than 40% of agricultural land. Farms of 5 ha or more comprise
5% of holdings and occupy 35% of the land. Share-cropping and tenancy are
still widespread, despite land tenure legislation.
ii.       Since the Salandi Irrigation Project (Credit 14-IN) in 1961/62,
there has been no Bank Group support to agriculture in Orissa except indi-
rectly through an Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
line of credit. A Command Area Development and Irrigation Project has just
been appraised.
iii.      The stagnation of agriculture in Orissa has been partly due to
the inability of the extension service to give meaningful advice to farmers;
similarly, research has failed to communicate and focus on the majority need
for simple, low-cost improvements.
iv.       The proposed five-year project aims to increase agricultural
production, particularly foodgrains, in Orissa and comprises:
(a) reorganization of the present agricultural extension
service, following the successful pattern introduced in
Rajasthan and elsewhere;
(b) strengthening and reorientation of adaptive agricultural
research by the Orissa University of Agriculture and
Technology (OUAT);
(c) pre-service training for extension workers and
training for cooperative personnel;
(d) improved and accelerated land surveys and land
record system, to establish land ownership and
tenancy as a basis for farm credit;
(e) support for the design, testing, demonstration and
distribution of improved animal-drawn farm implements;



- ii-
(f)  ground water survey and monitoring; research, design,
installation and field testing of alternative types of
shallow tubewell and pumping techniques; and
(g)  support for farm management data collection and eva-
luation by OUAT, and strengthening of agricultural
statistics and data processing by the Orissa Bureau
of Statistics and Economics.
v.        The extension service is already being reorganized along a single
line of command from the Director of Agriculture to the village level workers
(VLW), a vital requirement for the success of the new system. The essence of
the reorganization is systematic training and regular visits, whereby each
VLW receives training and instructions one day in 14 and is given a simple
and timely message to convey to the same group of farmers he visits once every
two weeks on a regular schedule. By selecting ten contact farmers from each
of eight groups of 50-100 farmers, one VLW covers an average of 600 active
farm families. Basic extension training facilities would be expanded and
upgraded, as would training facilities for the cooperative movement.
vi.       OUAT, in close cooperation with the Directorate of Agriculture
and Food Production would embark upon a production-oriented research program.
Four applied research stations would be developed, one in each principal
agro-ecological zone together with 13 Government farms in various locations
that would be used for adaptive research.
vii.      Organization and management would be through existing institutions
which, though strengthened, would not (except for extension) be greatly
changed. The Agricultural Production Commissioner would be in overall
charge, exercising coordination and project control through the Head of a
newly created Policy Planning and Coordination Unit. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Cell in this Unit would use information from the project supported
Bureau of Statistics and Economics and OUAT Farm Management Unit as a manage-
ment tool, and would be responsible for project evaluation in terms of its
original objectives. The Department of Agriculture and Cooperatives would
directly implement most parts of the project. Other institutions involved
would be OUAT; the Board of Revenue (land records and survey); Orissa Lift
Irrigation Corporation (OLIC); and the Bureau of Statistics and Economics.
viii.     Out of the estimated total project cost of US$40 M, about US$18 M
would be for the production-oriented components of extension and research
and related training and farm implement demonstration. These represent
about US$5 per farm family at an annual incremental operating cost of US$0.8
per farm family. The proposed IDA credit of US$20 M covers 50% of total costs.
It would finance the equivalent of 100% of the foreign exchange cost (US$1.6
M) and 48% of local costs. The Government of Orissa (GOO) would provide the
remaining US$20 M.



- iii -
ix.       Main items of project cost involving procurement are:  civil works
(US$13.1 M); vehicles, including motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.7 M); and minor
equipment and furniture for research, drilling, surveying and teaching (US$3.9
M). The balance of project costs (US$21.3 M) would consist of local and over-
seas training, incremental salaries and operating costs, not involving pro-
curement. Purchases (except for motorcycles and bicycles, which would be
available to staff on credit and purchased according to individual preference)
would be bulked into single contracts wherever possible and procurement would
be by local competitive bidding under established procedures which are satis-
factory. Scientific equipment for research (US$0.3 M) would involve small
contracts, and established procurement procedures would be followed, with
local competitive bidding wherever possible, Prudent shopping through normal
trade channels would be permitted for minor equipment and furniture procure-
ment valued at less than US$50,000. IDA funds would be disbursed against 100%
of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditure for equipment, vehicles
and civil works, 100% against training and fellowships, and 25% against
salaries of incremental staff.
x.        No attempt has been made to estimate an economic rate of return
for the project in the usual way because of difficulties in forecasting with
any accuracy, the incremental benefits. However, partly because of large sunk
costs, whereby the efficiency of an existing service is radically improved, the
economic rate of return of the project is likely to be well in excess of the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in India (about 12%). Instead, an esti-
mate has been made of the increase in paddy production required to achieve an
economic rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital. This comes
to 8 kg/ha statewide from year 7 onwards, which is low and well below what is
likely to be achieved. If only 20% of farmers achieved projected benefits,
yields would still have to increase by only 40 kg/ha to have an economic rate
of return equal to *the opportunity cost of capital, and this would be readily
obtainable. The potential is about Rs 2,000 kg/ha under rainfed conditions
and 3,300 kg/ha under irrigation. At least 0.7 M out of 3.4 X farm families
would benefit from direct and indirect contact with the extension service,
and the improvement in on-farm production is expected to be achieved at
little extra cost to the farmer, who would carry out existing operations
more efficiently.
ix.       Project risks are difficult to forecast, success being dependent
upon both human response and the vagaries of the weather. However, returns
on the relatively small investment should remain satisfactory under most
conceivable conditions. Experience in other States of India indicates that
great enthusiasm is aroused by such developments, and these have been markedly
successful.
xii.      In addition to having a major impact on the target group of small
and tenant farmers, the project would provide additional on-farm employment
to about 400,000 underemployed and landless people by Year 8 and create new
jobs in ancillary activities. The project is of considerable importance to



- iv -
the successful implementation of other agricultural projects in Orissa,
particularly ground water development (Credit 540-IN), and the proposed
surface irrigation projects. The increase in food production would im-
prove nutrition, and as Orissa is traditionally a food surplus State,
contribute to foodgrain supplies in the rest of India. The project is
considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$20 M.



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Eastern India, comprising Assam, Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal and
eastern Uttar Pradesh, is the country's "rice bowl", with substantial areas of
relatively fertile alluvial soil, moderate to heavy monsoon rains, and consid-
erable, largely unexploited, surface and ground water. Yet foodgrain yields
are generally lower than elsewhere in India. Rural institutions are weak, and
most social and economic indicators are lower than for the rest of India.
During discussions between the Government of India (GOI) and the Bank in New
Delhi in November 1974, it was agreed to give special emphasis to the develop-
ment of suitable agriculture projects in the Eastern States. The proposed
project was identified in line with this new direction of Bank Group agricul-
ture operations in India. It was prepared by a GOO working group assisted by
Bank staff, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) and consultants. It embod-
ies a new and successful approach to extension which was pioneered in India
and incorporated into the following Bank Group projects with the assistance of
Mr. D. Benor (Senior Agricultural Extension Consultant): Chambal Command Area
Development Project (Loan 1011-IB); Rajasthan Command Area Development (Credit
502-IN); West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Credit 541-IN).
1.02      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission to
India in May/June 1976 comprising Messrs P. Nelson, Y. Elkana, G. Slade, H.
Stier, B. Woods, (IDA); J. Cole (CP); H. Vieilhescaze, B. Babcock, S. Freiberg
(Consultants); and Ms R. Mason (IDA).
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector in India
2.01      Agriculture accounts for 45% of India's GNP, 70% of employment, and
provides the raw material for major commodity exports. The current ten-year
agricultural growth rate is about 3%. Compared with previous decades, yield
increases have contributed more to growth than cropped area expansion, improved
yields resulting mainly from more intensive use of high-yielding varieties
(HYV), fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation. GOI Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation is responsible for agriculture country-wide, but agricultural
development is specifically a State subject.
1/  The CP missions comprised J. Macartney (Mission Leader), J. Cole
(Agricultural Economist), M. Fenn (Marketing), F. Vita (Agricultural
Economist) and I. Mathews (Consultant Engineer).



B. The Agricultural Sector in Orissa (Annex 1)
2.02        Orissa, on the shores of the Bay of Bengal, has a population
of about 26 M and a land area of some 15.5 M ha, 5% of India's total.
Forests cover 32% and other uses account for 24%, leaving about 6.8 M ha
for cultivation; yet agriculture contributes about 60% of Orissa's GDP.
Farmers and agricultural laborers make up about 76% of the total labor force.
Scheduled castes and tribes, concentrated in more backward districts, consti-
tute 38% of the population.
2.03        Data on the agricultural sector in Orissa is generally scarce
and not very accurate. Two GOO agencies are responsible for most agricul-
tural statistics: the Bureau of Statistics and Economics (BSE), primarily
for final estimates of rice area, production and yield; the Statistics Section
of Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP), for all forecasts
and final estimates on 33 minor crops. Data for sector planning is not read-
ily available. Except for some work by the Orissa University of Agriculture
and Technology (OUAT), there is little information on costs and returns of
rice production, on which almost all of about 3.5 M farmers depend.
Climate
2.04        Temperatures permit all year cropping, though some crops are
naturally limited to specific seasons. Heavy clouds during the monsoon and
shorter daylight in the cool season, are also limiting factors. However, the
principal climatic constraint in Orissa is rainfall distribution. The average
of about 1,500 mm, is adequate; but about 80% falls in about 60 days during
the June-Sept monsoon (kharif) and variation both in amount and timeliness is
great. Rainfall probabilities and maturation periods of various crops show
that a more assured kharif harvest depends on timely planting, short-term
100-110 day cereal varieties, and supplementary irrigation.
Soils and Topography
2.05      Residual soils of the Orissa uplands, about 47% of the cultivable
land, are predominantly lateritic, highly leached, acidic and low in organic
matter and nitrogen. They tend to be shallow, sandy and erodible, with asso-
ciated low water retention. Transported soils of the alluvial plain (30%)
are moderately fertile, less acidic and generally more productive. Highly
suitable for paddy, the lower lands (23%) are subject to flooding of varying
intensity and duration.
2.06      Rainfall naturally drains from the uplands, which are more drought
prone. The medium lands and non-flooded low lands have acceptable water
control. It is common for farmers to own parcels of all three classes, a
logical reason for fragmentation since this acts as insurance against dis-
trict crop failures. However, such fragmentation is frequently excessive.



- 3-
Land Tenure and Distribution
2.07        Some of the reasons why it is difficult to raise agricultural
productivity in Orissa are: the large number of small farms; the insecurity
of tenancy arrangements; and the persistence of sharecropping. "Small" and
"marginal" farmers (less than 2 ha) represent roughly 2.6 M households. Though
operating over 75% of all holdings, they control less than 40% of cultivable
land, while farmers with 5 ha or more (less than 7% of holdings) control about
35%. Sharecropping and tenancy are still widespread, despite land tenure
legislation.
Yields and Production Patterns
2.08        Recorded yields, among India's lowest, are 1.2 T/ha for rainfed
paddy and 1.5 T/ha for irrigated kharif paddy, about half those of Punjab,
Haryana and Tamil Nadu. The low irrigation response is probably due to
poor water control and excessive flooding, which is known to occur. Even
in West Bengal, with similar weather, yields are 30% higher. Rabi paddy
yields under irrigation reach 2.0 T/ha (2.7 T in W Bengal). Kharif paddy
HYV is only about 10% of total planted area, though most rabi crop is HYV.
Wheat yields, on the other hand, are higher than the all-India average,
because wheat is grown mainly under irrigation, using modern varieties and
quite large amounts of chemical fertilizer. Pulse yields are roughly the
same as all-India.
2.09        Orissa agricultural production has virtually stagnated.  Rice
production in 1973/74, 4.4 M tons, was exactly the same as reported in 1964/65;
considerably lower in some intervening years; all the more puzzling because,
at this time, farmers elsewhere in India were benefitting from HYV, chemical
fertilizers and tubewells. A few minor crops showed large percentage increases;
but their base was small and the overall effect negligible.
Organization
2.10        Orissa is divided into 13 Administrative Districts, each headed
by a Collector; 30 Agricultural Districts, headed by a District Agricultural
Officer (DAO); and 314 Development Blocks, the local rural administrative unit,
headed by a Block Development Officer (BDO). The 30 Agricultural Districts
are grouped into six Ranges, each under a Deputy Director of Agriculture.
These are currently being reorganized and extended into 13 Ranges, correspond-
ing approximately to the Administrative Districts. The Directorate of Agri-
culture and Food Production (DAFP) is headed by a Director responsible to
the Secretary for Agriculture and Cooperation (see Chart 16273).
Agricultural Extension (Annex 3)
2.11        Responsibility for agricultural extension was divided, until
recently, with most Village Level Workers (VLW) employed multi-purpose, attend-
ing many duties unrelated to agriculture. They worked under the Department of
Community Development and Social Welfare, were administratively responsible to



-4-
the BDO and supervised by him, while technically backed by DAFP. The BDO, in
turn, is responsible to the Collector and is also Secretary of the Panchayat
Samiti, a local political grouping. Some VLW were on special crop development
schemes, directly under DAFP. There was little contact between the agricul-
tural officers of DAFP and the staff of OUAT. Lines of command, supervision
and technology flow were complex and diffuse. These problems were compounded
by poor training; severe transport shortage; lack of promotion opportunities;
and difficult living and working conditions.
Agricultural Research (Annex 4)
2.12      Since it was established in 1962, OUAT has had principal responsi-
bility for agricultural research in the State. The Central Rice Research
Institute (CRRI) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), at
Cuttack, carries out specialized research on rice. Some adaptive research is
also carried out by DAFP. CRRI, established in 1946, develops rice HYV for
improved yields under different agro-ecological conditions throughout India,
and with resistance/tolerance to major pests and diseases. It has a 121 ha
research farm and a professional staff of 120 scientists.
2.13      Research coordination is the responsibility of the Research Dean
of OUAT. He also administers seven research stations, recently transferred
from DAFP. The main station is 246 ha, on the Bhubaneswar campus. OUAT has
produced several rice HYV and also new varieties of millet,_ pulses, oilseeds
and wheat. It has also done work on economic evaluation of cropping systems,
pest and disease control, soil fertility and rainfed agriculture. Most
research is financed by ICAR and most research staff are temporary, depending
on ICAR budgets.
Farm Power and Implements (Annex 5)
2.14      Most Orissa farmers are wholly dependent for energy on human labor
and animal power. About 3.4 M cultivators, 1.9 M agricultural laborers and
an estimated 2.6 M animals work on the land. Nevertheless, there are serious
seasonal shortages of animal power, for early cultivation; and of labor, par-
ticularly for transplanting and weeding, despite pervasive landlessness,
unemployment and poverty. A major constraint to production is failure to
prepare and sow land in time. Before early rains have softened it, soil is
generally too hard to cultivate and then, at a time when bullocks are in poor
condition following the dry season, peak demand results in shortage of draft
power, and consequent late planting, inadequate land preparation and poor
cultivation. The local country plow is also very inefficient, requiring more
animal hours than would be required with improved plows. Mechanization is at
an early stage in Orissa, with only about 1,800 tractors and 450 power tillers
in use, and it will be slow to spread when there are so many small fragmented
farms. Animal power must therefore be better used to improve cultivation.
2.15      DAFP and CRRI have carried out valuable work on improved anitmal-
drawn implements, some of which, particularly the metal plow, are ready for
production and distribution on a commercial scale.



- 5 -
Ground Water Development (Annexes 6 & 7)
2.16        Ground water development in Orissa was negligible until about
ten years ago, though quite substantial progress has been made since the
Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation (OLIC) was formed by GOO in 1973, princi-
pally to construct and operate lift irrigation with both surface and ground
water. There are currently an estimated 90,000 dug wells and 700 tubewells
supplying irrigation to 50,000 ha in both kharif and rabi.
2.17        Based on a plan prepared by the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC), in collaboration with OLIC, GOO proposes
development of ground water to include 200,000 dug wells, 15,000 simple pri-
vate tubewells (Annex 7), and 2,250 public tubewells, resulting in ground
water irrigation of an additional 295,000 ha at an estimated cost of Rs 1,180 M
(US$130 M). This would be financed by ARDC from an existing general line of
IDA credit (Credit 505-IN), a further credit to be negotiated, and from its
own funds.
Input Supply (Annex 8)
2.18        Orissa input use is low (fertilizer averaging 9 kg/ha compared
with all-India 14.8 kg/ha), partly because extension is not organized to
encourage it, partly because supply is not well developed. Agricultural co-
operatives handle an estimated 60% of the small amount of fertilizer dis-
tributed. Villages near a distribution center (about half) are served by
private retailers, but in most outlying areas, the cooperative is the only
source. Cooperatives and private retailers rarely have enough technical
knowledge and training, storage, transportation and working capital for
efficient input distribution. GOI fertilizer price controls, with fixed dis-
tribution margins, are also a severe disincentive to handling of fertilizer
beyond the busier centers. The fertilizer situation in India is currently
under discussion between GOI and the Bank.
2.19        Neither cooperatives nor private traders supply seeds, pesti-
cides or implements on any scale, and few farms have ready access to them.
DAFP is primarily responsible for production and distribution of improved
seeds, the processing facilities for which are rudimentary.
2.20        Fertilizer supply is not an immediate constraint, since Orissa
plants will have capacity well above local demand for some years. The National
Seeds Corporation has arranged to make required quantities of seeds available
until a planned State Seed Corporation is developed and operating. The
private input trade has adequate support, but the cooperative system is weak
due partly to low turnover, partly to inability of members to provide or raise
funds for investment. The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
is GOI instrument for helping overcome this weakness, by offering loans, through
State Governments, on special terms, and grants up to 25% of the cost of storage
and, in tribal areas, of transportation. Regional marketing cooperatives chan-
nel fertilizer, farm chemicals and implements mainly through primary coopera-
tives, with the help of their formal and somewhat inflexible credit system.



- 6 -
Regional cooperatives also procure and process paddy and oilseeds and store
commodities and consumables. Distribution problems are compounded by high
credit overdues and consequently reduced turnover as members thus become
ineligible for credit to buy inputs. Rescheduling of some debts and a good
1975/76 harvest should have helped; but the real answer is strengthening of
cooperative membership and staff training and a firmer stand against overdues.
Land Records (Annex 9)
2.21        Many of Orissa's land-holders do not have up-to-date records.
Accurate village maps are rare. This lack of such records and maps is a major
obstacle to development. For instance cultivators, without the security of
tenure provided by a firm title, are reluctant to invest in their holdings.
Credit agencies requiring land as collateral are prevented from lerninig.
Work on land consolidation is delayed. Improvements in water use in irrigated
areas are hampered and land acquisition for development becomes doubly time
consuming. Conversion of share-croppers to full ownership and enforcement of
the land ceiling legislation are almost impossible. In addition, even where
land records do exist, the systems for retrieving information and updating it
is cumbersome and time consuming.
2.22        Two separate Divisions within the Department of Revenue and
Excise are responsible for land records: the Commissioner, Land Records and
Settlement, for land survey every 30 years to update basic records; and the
Inspector-General of Land Registration, for registration of transfers and
mortgages. A third Division takes care of land reform and consolidation.
Agricultural Credit (Annex 10)
2.23      Institutional credit in Orissa is estimated to cover only about 15%
of total need, compared with all-India estimates of about 35%. Most institu-
tional credit (85%) is provided by the cooperative movement; short and medium
term through the Orissa State Cooperative Bank, 17 Central Cooperative Banks
with 84 branches, and about 3,300 Primary Credit Societies; long (and some
medium) term through the State Land Development Bank, with eight branches and
55 affiliated Primary Land Development Banks. However, only about 40% of farm
households are members of cooperatives, and only about 10% borrow from them.
The 14 major commercial banks with 345 branches (half in rural areas) also
provide short, medium and long term loans under a "Lead Bank" System with
responsibility for commercial bank credit in particular districts.
2.24      Short, medium and long term cooperative credit is supported by redis-
count facilities with the Reserve Bank of India and ARDC. Both institutions
also support commercial banks, and both have control and monitoring mechanisms.
2.25        In spite of the wide coverage of the cooperative system, insti-
tutional credit performance has been mixed. A Study Team on Institutional
Credit Arrangements (August 1975) and the ARDC Banking Plan Team (January
1976) recommended remedial measures, notably: vigorous recovery of overdues;
redistribution of primary cooperatives, closing the weakest; deposit mobili-
zation; training; and reinforcement of supervisory staff. IDA credits ARDC
I and II are being used as vehicles for helping to implement such measures.



- 7-
Cooperative Training (Annex 11)
2.26        About 10,000 staff are employed in the Orissa cooperative move-
ment, which has grown rapidly in recent years. The three cooperative training
institutions are all housed in rented accommodation; one at Bhubaneswar for
senior staff; and one each at Gopalpur and Bargarh, where primary cooperative
secretaries, supervisors and inspectors are mainly trained. They are grossly
inadequate for demands now put upon them, let alone expected. Some Central
Cooperative Banks also provide training.
Basic Extension Training (Annex 12)
2.27        About 6,600 are employed at village level in the extension serv-
ices. Training is needed to replace normal wastage of about 5% (330) and to
upgrade poorly-trained staff who could benefit, numbering about 2,500. Up-
dating courses and basic training for contact farmers and rural leaders,
including rural women, are also needed. Basic extension training is provided
at three centers; Bhubaneswar, Gopalpur, Bolangir. Built in the early 1950's
for a much smaller function than now required, each with accommodation for
about 160 trainees, they have insufficient classrooms and overlarge classes;
and they lack practical emphasis. There is urgent need to expand and upgrade
them.
Training of Women (Annex 12)
2.28        Women play an important and increasing role in family decision
making and are becoming progressively more involved in agriculture e.g. in
seed selection, handling of fertilizers and keeping of small animals. Each
Development Block has a women's social education officer, who concentrates on
improved nutrition, health and family planning, child care, home management,
agriculture and animal husbandry. Three out of 13 Revenue Districts have
training teams holding 3-5 day training camps for women's clubs. Each team
comprises a training officer and two demonstrators, with a vehicle for teach-
ing aids and demonstration materials. They have proved extremely effective.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Objectives and Description
3.01        The project is a package of complementary components aimed at
achieving early and sustained improvement in agricultural production, particu-
larly of foodgrains. This would be accomplished mainly by reorganizing and
strengthening the extension service, to bring improved agricultural practices
to farmers statewide; and by strengthening and reorienting related research.
At the same time, associated input supply would be improved. The base would
be laid for longer term improvements in ground water development and credit
supply through surveys, monitoring, shallow tubewell technology, and new and



-8-
improved land transfer and survey systems, which would also help land consol-
idation to improve farm efficiency. Agricultural statistics and data process-
ing would be strengthened to improve agricultural planning for GOO and GOI.
3.02        The project comprises:
(a) reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
and its link to agricultural research;
(b) strengthening and reorientation of agricultural research
by OUAT, including adaptive research and field trials;
(c) pre-service training for extension workers and training
for cooperative personnel;
(d) improved and accelerated land surveys and land record
systems, to establish land ownership and tenancy more
efficiently as a basis for farm credit;
(e) support for the design, testing, demonstration and
,distribution of improved animal-drawn farm implements;
(f) ground water survey and monitoring; research, design,
installation and field testing of alternative types of
shallow tubewell and pumping techniques; and
(g) support for farm management data collection and evalua-
tion by OUAT, and strengthening of agricultural statis-
tics and data processing by the Orissa Bureau of Economics
and Statistics;
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension (Annex 3)
3.03        The extension service would be reorganized and strengthened,
closely following the successful pattern introduced in Rajasthan and else-
where. Based on regular two-weekly visits by full-time VLW on given days to
selected groups of farmers, each VLW receives training and instructions on one
day in the two-week period from his supervisor, an Agricultural Extension
Officer (AEO) supported by Subject Matter Specialists. He is given simple and
timely messages to communicate, finds out what his farmers' problems are and
seeks solutions.
3.04      Each VLW would cover some 400 to 800 active farm families, depending
on local population density and communications. They, in turn, are divided
into eight groups of 50 to 100 families. The messages, conveyed through 8-10



- 9 -
contact farmers in each of these smaller groups, focus on the most important
local crops and on practices that are of immediate relevance; and they relate
to farm size and farmer ability to invest and take risks. VLW also carry out
demonstrations and participate in field trials. Making no formal reports,
they keep a daily diary to record farm visits, major recommendations and
problems to be discussed with the AEO.
3.05      The extension service is now being reorganized with a single line of
command from the Director of Agriculture through to the VLW. This is being
effected by transferring some 2,500 VLW (about 70%) from the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Welfare to DAFP and incorporating another
3,100 from all "special schemes", which will be abolished. All would devote
100% of their time to agricultural extension.
3.06      VLW would thus cover the 3.4 M active farm families in Orissa at
an average ratio of 1:600. Seven hundred AEO would support and supervise
them (at a ratio of 1:8) and would be responsible to District Agricultural
Officers (DAO). DAO would each have two Additional District Agricultural
Officers who with him would each supervise 8-10 AEO. Five Subject Matter
Specialists and a Training Officer would operate in each of the thirteen
agricultural ranges and give support and training to field staff. They would
also actively participate in local field research and form a strong link with
OUAT. Assurances were given that appropriate staffing, acceptable to IDA,
would be implemented (Annex 16, Table 4).
3.07      The project would provide transportation, housing, office accommoda-
tion, demonstration and training equipment and fellowships for the extension
service, together with incremental establishment costs. Details are in Annexes
3 and 16 (Table 3). Eleven cars, 83 four-wheel drive vehicles, 13 pickups and
13 minibuses would be provided. Motorcycles and cycles would be so'ld to staff
on credit, which is the best means of ensuring proper care and maintenance.
Maximum loans allowed are presently inadequate; assurances were obtained that
credit would be made available to extension staff for purchase of suitable
means of transport, on terms and conditions that would be sufficient to create
incentive for purchase of such transport. On purchasing a motorcycle, staff
would attend a short course on motorcycle handling, maintenance, simple
repairs and highway code and insurance laws.
3.08      Housing would be provided for the newly appointed Deputy Directors,
Assistant District Agricultural Officers and Subject Matter Specialists and
for about 35% of the VLW and AEO whose housing is now inadequate (Annex 16,
Table 2). Assurances were obtained that adequate low cost housing would be
provided to enable VLW to live in the area assigned for their operation.
Assurances were also given that (i) within two months from date of signing,
GOO would furnish IDA for its review the design and cost estimates of such
housing, and (ii) within six months of signing, GOO would complete a survey
to determine the exact number and locations of such housing.



- 10 -
Agricultural Research (Annex 4)
3.09      A production-oriented applied and adaptive research program in those
crops of importance to Orissa would be set up. It would concentrate on eval-
uation of improved cultural practices; farming systems and cropping patterns;
and testing of improved and high-yielding varieties resistant/tolerant to the
major pests and diseases in the State. This would be carried out by OUAT and
DAFP in addition to their existing research work.
3.10      The four main agro-ecological zones would be covered by applied
research stations under OUAT at: Bhubaneswar (Coastal), Chiplima (Central
Plateau Tableland), Simliguda (Eastern Ghat-Highland), and Keonjhar (Northern
Plateau). In addition, adaptive research would be conducted at a government
farm in each of the 13 agricultural ranges, with OUAT providing researchers on
secondment to DAFP which would provide the support staff. Assurances were
given that these stations and farms would be included in the project and that
a Central Research Coordination Unit would be established by OUAT in Bhuban-
eswar (see Annex 4).
3.11      At full development by year 3, the four applied research stations
would have 41 professionals and 165 support staff. The adaptive research
farms would have 13 Research Officers and 26 Research Assistants seconded from
OUAT to the DAFP ranges. Assurances were given that OUAT professional and
support staff for these stations would be permanent staff members devoting
full time to research.
3.12      Equipment and facilities at the research stations are generally poor
and they would be strengthened. On-farm development comprising irrigation,
drainage, land levelling, roads, fencing, etc, would be provided at all four
applied research stations and some of the adaptive research farms. Buildings,
staff quarters and a 24-bed dormitory would also be provided at each of the
three outlying stations. The dormitory would accommodate extension personnel
and farmers for training and mutual exchange of information and problems.
Input Storage and Distribution (Annex 8)
3.13      To achieve full project potential, input supply should be strength-
ened so that seed, fertilizer and plant protection chemicals are available on
time. Fertilizer application is forecast to increase, largely as a result of
the project, from a 7.4 kg/ha (nutrient) mean for 1973/74-1975/76 to 14.6 by
1979/80 and 24.6 by 1983/84. The 1974/75 all-India average was 14.8 kg/ha.
Total volume is expected to increase approximately as follows:
1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84
Project Year    (1)       (2)     (3)      (4)     (5)
------------------------------Thousand tons ---------------------------
155    185      225     275      335     385      440      515    590



- 11 -
3.14      Seed volume is expected to increase to 20,000 tons by 1979/80 and
30/40,000 tons by 1983/84; and total turnover of low volume plant protection
chemicals to Rs 60 M by 1979/80 and Rs 120 M by 1983/84.
3.15      Increased input would be handled about equally by the private trade
and cooperatives. The private trade would be able to increase its distribu-
tion capacity adequately without project assistance. The cooperative system,
however, needs special help which NCDC offers.
3.16      At appraisal GOI and GOO proposed that IDA finance the cooperative
storage and distribution component of this project using NCDC as the financing
agency. Since NCDC would be a new channel for IDA funds, a special mission
visited India in October-November 1976 to review its procedures and policies.
This mission found that, subject to a number of legal, organizational and
policy changes, NCDC would be a suitable channel. However, because it may
take an extended period to introduce these changes, it was agreed with GOI
and GOO to delete this cooperative component from the present project and to
transfer it to a subsequent all - India project to be prepared by NCDC. Any
delay that occurs in the provision of additional storage as a result of this
transfer should not affect the implementation of the extension and research
components of the present project.
Cooperative Training (Annex 11)
3.17      For cooperative training, a 50 double-room hostel and 4 lecture
rooms (2 X 40 and 2 X 20) would be built at the Bhubaneswar College and,
in addition to similar lecture rooms, a hostel to accommodate 100 and housing
for five staff at the Bargarh Center. The Gopalpur Center would be renovated
and a hostel to accommodate 30 and two classrooms (for 40) added. All three
would be provided with ancillary buildings and services, furniture, kitchen
equipment (except Gopalpur), teaching equipment and visual aids; and a
40-seater bus, particularly to take students for on-farm and other training
visits.
3.18      Training provided by the 17 Central Cooperative Banks would be
strengthened by the addition of simple hostel accommodation for about 20
students at each one, with a classroom, ancillary construction, furniture
and equipment. A full-time instructor would be seconded from the Department
of Cooperatives to each. Disbursement requests would certify that the Coop-
erative Bank, in respect of which the request was made, had submitted to the
Registrar satisfactory evidence of title to land for the training structures
and had a Department of Cooperatives instructor appointed full-time.
3.19      Annual capacity would thus be increased to train about 10% of the
more senior cooperative staff. Central Cooperative Bank training capacity,
gradually phased over three years, would increase sufficiently to enable
replacement of employee departures from the cooperative movement. It would
also provide a brief update for all cooperative secretaries, junior accountants,
storekeepers, etc.



- 12 -
Basic Extension Training (Annex 12)
3.20      The three basic extension training centers would be transferred to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives from the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Welfare. They would be expanded and upgraded and a
new one added in the north at Sambalpur on land to be made available by GOO.
Hostel accommodation would be provided at the new center and expanded at
Bhubaneswar. Additional classrooms and other facilities would provide full
teaching and hostel accomodation for the 160 students that can be accommodated
at each of the existing centers and 200 in the new one. Mobile training units
would be provided for rural women in the ten Ranges which do not now have
them.
3.21      The basic training period would be reduced from two years to one,
but intensified under a revised curriculum (Annex 12) supplemented by practical
husbandry. Annual training capacity would thus be increased from a possible
4,880 to 6,160 more effective man-months, enough to enable 80 trainees to
receive annual pre-service training, 40 an eight-month upgrading and 120 a
four-month upgrading at each center.
3.22      Scholarships would be provided for 80 man-months of training out-
side Orissa for Subject Matter Specialists and 20 man-months for lecturers.
Training Establishment Costs
3.23      Incremental costs for the above training over the five-year project
period would be included for lecturers' and subordinate staff remuneration,
travelling and trainee allowances, building and vehicle maintenAnce and ope-
ration, teaching materials and office expenses. The services of a Training
Officer (who would also be provided with a vehicle) would also be included.
Land Survey and Land Records (Annex 9)
Land Survey
3.24      For reasons set out in paragraph 2.21, work on the cadastral survey
of the state and the preparation of a complete Record of Rights would be
speeded up. It is at present only constrained by lack of funds and is not
due for completion until 1984. Under the project, the schedule would be
brought forward to be completed by 1980/81. An additional 362 survey teams
would be provided with six more survey supervisors and 156 assistant survey
(settlement) officers. A further 1,500 trained technical field staff and 4,000
unskilled laborers would be recruited (and are available). An additional six
4-wheel drive vehicles, survey equipment and tents would also be provided.
Land Record Systems
3.25      For similar reasons it is important that searching for land records
to confirm ownership title be made less cumbersome and time consuming. In
Dhenkenal District, an improved system of card indexing has been successfully
introduced, whereby search and issue time has been reduced from six days to



- 13 -
one hour. This system would be extended statewide under the project, by pro-
vision of card index cabinets (646); data forfs and cards; additional tem-
porary staff; and buildings for secure storage and ongoing registration and
certification work, with 14 record rooms at important local centers, 47 rural
record rooms at key towns, and two new registration offices, one each at
Sambalpur and Bolangir.
Farm Implements (Annex 5)
3.26      To help farmers improve cultural practices, animal drawn farm imple-
ments would be developed through: expansion of DAFP production; extension and
intensification of DAFP demonstration; establishment of a research and design
unit at OUAT College of Agriculture and Engineering Technology.
3.27      To increase annual production of improved plows from 5,500 to
14,000, the project would provide a power press, additional workshop equipment
and a 4-wheel drive vehicle with trailer. Staff (one development engineer and
two assistant engineers) and operating costs, including tests on DAFP adaptive
research farms would also be included. Thirteen mobile demonstration vans
with audio-visual equipment would be purchased, one unit per agricultural
range (13), with incremental staff and operating costs. Each would be operated
by an agricultural engineering supervisor (also Range Farm Machinery Snbject
Matter Specialist), and cover about 150 demonstrations, or 30,000 farmers, a
year. For OUAT research and design unit, additional workshop equipment
and one 4-wheel drive vehicle would be provided, together with two research
engineers and two assistants under a chief research engineer and operating
costs over five years. Visits by mobile units would be at request of VLW.
3.28      Demand for improved plows under the project is expected to increase
to about 50,000 a year and, over and above DAFP production, would initially
be manufactured by the industrial Development Corporation, Hirakaud (IDC) to
hANFP specifications. Private entrepreneurs would also be encouraged to take
up manufacture on contract to the Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC), which
would coordinate manufacturing and distribution with market needs. Assurances
were given that a Farm Implements Committee comprising DAFP, OUAT and AIC
representatives and chaired by the Joint Director of Agriculture (Engineering)
would be established to supervise design to distribution of such implements.
Ground Water Surveys and Monitoring (Annex 6)
3.29      Ground water development on the scale referred to in para 2.17 (an
additional 295,000 ha) would increase annual ground water extraction by an
estimated 240,000 ha m from approximately 100,000 ha m at present. To assure
orderly development and avoid local over-exploitation, the project would
include a three-year program of extensive geo-hydrologic investigation and
formulation of systematic monitoring and data collection.



- 14 -
3.30      Two new divisions for monitoring at Balangir and Bhubaneswar would
be needed, each headed by a hydrologist, and six sub-divisions, each with
an assistant hydrologist. A total of 160 additional staff would be required.
Instrumentation for measuring rainfall and runoff data would be installed at
92 locations. Seasonal and annual fluctuation of the water table would be
determined from 65 specially designed monitoring wells. An inventory of
existing wells would be made, and some of these would be incorporated in the
monitoring program. A comprehensive ground water quality monitoring program
would also be included. A central data bank would be established at each of
four regional headquarters. Assurances were given that a separate unit would
be established promptly to conduct groundwater surveys and monitoring with
such terms of reference and composition as may be mutually agreed between
GOO and the Association.
3.31      The major equipment required would be two drilling rigs, one heavy
duty rotary and the other percussion type, with supporting transport. Also
included would be casing, welding equipment and other materials to install
30 tubewells in the coastal plain and some 35 elsewhere. Other items would
be electrical logging equipment, metering and recording devices, laboratory
testing apparatus, surveying instruments, field camp facilities, and office
furniture and equipment.
Shallow Tubewell Technology (Annex 7)
3.32      Scientifically designed hand-dug wells were introduced to Orissa
fairly recently and proved very popular, because initial capital cost is
relatively low and benefit great and immediate. They cost more per ha and per
ha m, however, than most alternatives. Where geological conditions permit,
shallow filter point wells offer an even lower capital cost, with similar or
superior performance. A variation of the conventional tubewell, they may be
hand-drilled to a relatively shallow depth of up to 25 m. They use locally
available materials instead of conventional steel tubes and screens and
comprise a coir filter, made up of jute wrapping round a bamboo frame, and
a fabricated bamboo pipe instead of steel tube. A few have been successfully
installed in Orissa, and in Bihar similar bamboo tubewells have demonstrated
a five year life when kept wet.
3.33      Assurances were obtained that OLIC would implement a three-year
program of research, design, installation and field testing of alternative
types together with low cost alternative systems of irrigation water extrac-
tion and distribution.
3.34      To conduct this program, OLIC would need two additional engineers
and 14 technical and general office personnel. Tubewell and pump components,
transport, hand-boring sets, miscellaneous tools and testing instruments,
would be required, together with materials for prototype manual pumps.
Farm Management Data Unit (Annex 13)
3.35      The project would support farm management data collection and
evaluation by expanding OUAT Farm Management Data Unit (para 2.03) to provide
statistical information for monitoring agricultural performance together with
feedback on costs of production and returns from different farm systems.



- 15 -
Main objectives would be to provide GOO with data both for agricultural
policy and planning, and for use in extension service training as well as for
monitoring and evaluating the extension service and new research technology.
Data would comprise: production cost studies on major crops; cost-benefit
studies of new techniques developed from adaptive research; revision of the
Orissa State Farm Management Handbook; bench mark information for geographical
zones and social groups. A continuing sample of about 1,500 farms would be
selected across the main agroclimatic zones.
3.36      The Unit would be under a Director and staffed by six Farm Manage-
ment Economists, 30 Farm Management Assistants (one to each Agricultural
District), 105 Primary Investigators and supporting analyst staff. The eco-
nomists would be based at the four zonal basic research stations (Annex 4).
Suitable assurances were given.
Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing (Annex 14)
3.37      The Bureau of Statistics and Economics (BSE) would be strength-
ened to undertake the Timely Reporting System (TRS) being adopted India-
wide. BSE Agricultural Statistics and Crop Survey Division would be headed
by a Deputy Director, with a total of 24 staff in Bhubaneswar and a field
organization under a District Statistical Officer in each of the 13 Districts.
3.38      State-wide estimates of areas and average yields of rice and 11
other important crops would be based on annual samples rotated every year from
1976. Gathering of land use data would begin with about 3,100 villages (6%) in
kharif, gradually increasing to 10,400 (20%) over four or five years. There-
after, a complete land-use picture would be available every five years. 460
villages, in intensively irrigated blocks, would be selected for estimating
land use during rabi. TRS would provide: area and yield statistics; irriga-
tion statistics (source, area, frequency, crops); price statistics (farmgate
through retail); supplementary data on soils, labor use, land tenure, input
use, etc.                                                   X
3.39      A large increment of staff would be required (Annex 26), mainly
primary and supervisory workers, since VLW would no longer be available. Suf-
ficient qualified persons are available, and recruitment is expected to be no
problem. Training in statistical methodology and practical field work would,
however, be given by a training team comprising an Assistant Director, three
land registration officers, three instructors and two research assistants.
Suitable assurances were given. The project would provide vehicles; loans for
motorcycles and bicycles; measuring and weighing equipment and crop cutting
devices; office calculating machines, equipment and furniture (Annex 26
Table 2).
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, which include duties and taxes estimated at
US$1.8 M, are given in Annexes 16-27, and are summarized below:



-16 -
Thousand Rupees      Thousand US Dollars       %
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
Extension               91,481  3,584  95,065  10,165   398   10,563    4
Research                41,769  2,349  44,118   4,641   261    4,902    6
Farm Implements          6,254    611   6,865       695    68       763    9
Ground Water Survey/
Monitoring            13,324  2,279  15,603   1,480   253    1,733   15
Tubewell Technology       1,256    122   1,378      139    14       153    9
Land Survey & Records  46,067    281  46,348   5,119    31    5,150    1
Cooperative Training   10,096    101  10,197   1,122    11    1,133    1
Basic Extension
Training                9,393    336   9,729   1,044    37    1,081    4
Farm Management
Data Unit               7,513    218   7,731       835    24       859    3
Ag Statistics & Data
Processing            33,833  1,652  35,485   3,759   184    3,943    5
Sub-Total            260,986 11,533 272,519  28,999 1,281   30,280    4
Physical Contingencies 11,703    439  12,142   1,300    49    1,349    4
Price Contingencies    72,725  2,614  75,339   8,081   290    8,371    4
Total Project Cost  345,414 14,586 360,000  38,380 1,620   40,000    4
4.02      Physical contingencies, averaging 4% on total basic project cost,
have been applied (Annexes 16-27) to civil works, furniture and miscellaneous
equipment and selected incremental operating costs but are not needed for
specific equipment items, vehicles and incremental staff costs. Price
contingencies, totalling 26% on basic cost plus physical contingencies, have
been applied cumulatively as follows:
- Equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs,
except incremental salaries, 2% for the remainder of
1976; 8% per annum in 1977/79 and 7% thereafter;
- Civil works, 2% for the remainder of 1976, 12% per
annum in 1977/79, and 10% thereafter;
- Incremental salaries, 6% per annum from 1977 onwards.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$20 M, on standard terms to GOI, would
finance about 50% of total project cost, (52% net of taxes and duties), and
would cover the equivalent of the estimated US$1.6 M foreign exchange cost and
about 48% of local cost. The remaining 50% of project costs would be met by
GOO. IDA funds would be made available to GOO in accordance with GOI standard



- 17 -
terms and arrangements for the financing of State development projects. GOO
would channel funds to implementing units (DAFP etc) as annual budget alloca-
tions.
C. Procurement
4.04      Main items to be financed are:  civil works; vehicles, including
motorcycles and cycles; research, drilling, survey and teaching equipment;
and incremental salaries and allowances. Contracts for civil works would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, following local advertising, under
established procedures. Small and disbursed geographically and over time,
these contracts (US$13.1 M total) would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. There are numerous qualified local contractors able to
carry out civil works. A Buildings Implementation Unit would be established
to assure efficient implementation of the buildings component (para 5.02).
Construction of VLW housing would be supervised by civil engineers attached to
the Block level administration. Suitable assurances were obtained.
4.05      About 130 motorized vehicles of various types including trucks,
4-wheel drive vehicles, and automobiles (US$0.8 M) would be required by
Government Departments. They would be widely dispersed in rural areas, and
adequate maintenance and spares availability would be of paramount importance.
This is only possible for locally made vehicles of types already widely used
by GOO, and well-known to mechanics, even in remote villages. Procurement
would be by local competitive bidding under existing procedures, which are
satisfactory, except that procurement from GOI of some vehicles and equipment
(such as calculators and filing cabinets) commonly used by all Government
Departments is also possible, where appropriate, through GOI Director-General
of Supplies, who regularly makes "rate contracts" for supply of these items by
competitive tender. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.9 M) would be purchased by
individual staff, according to their preferences.
4.06      Scientific equipment for research (US$0.3 M) would involve small
contracts, from different suppliers of specialized items. International com-
petitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical. Most of the world's
leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented in India, are
competitive, and could offer local maintenance service. GOO established local
procurement procedures utilizing competitive bidding where appropriate would
be utilized. Other minor equipment and furniture procurement (US$3.6 M) would
follow similar procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000, when
prudent shopping through normal trade channels would be permitted. Suitable
assurances were given.
4.07      The balance of project costs (US$21.3 M) would consist of local and
overseas training, and incremental salaries and operating costs, not involving
procurement.



- 18 -
4.08      Assurances were obtained that contracts for vehicles and equip-
ment would be bulked wherever feasible and that for contracts in excess of
US$100,000, draft tender invitations and bid documents would be submitted
for IDA review before issue.
D. Disbursements
4.09      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment
and vehicles;
(b) 100% of cost of training and fellowships;
(c) 80% of cost for locally procured equipment and vehicles;
(d) 80% of civil works and;
(e) 25% of salaries of incremental staff.
4.10      There would be no disbursement against land aquisition or operating
costs. Disbursements against expenditures for locally procured equipment
costing Rs 20,000 or less (item c), payments under civil works contracts for
one or more progress payment not exceeding Rs 50,000 (item d), and salaries
(item e) would be against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by GOO. It
would be available for inspection by IDA during the course of Project Super-
vision missions. Disbursements against all other items would be fully docu-
mented. Certificates of expenditure would be audited at least once every six
months and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. Suitable assurances
were obtained. A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 29.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Organization and management of the project is complex, in the sense
that it covers a wide range of components (para 3.02). On the other hand, its
main thrust is through existing institutions which would not, except for the
Extension Service, be greatly changed.
5.02      Chart 16979 shows the relationship between project implementing
units. The officer principally responsible, in overall charge of the project,
would be the Agricultural Production Commissioner. He would exercise coordi-
nation and overall project control through the Head of a newly created Policy
Planning and Coordination Unit, an already appointed Officer on Special
Duties. The establishment of this unit is a condition of effectiveness.



- 19 -
The Unit would assist GOO with agricultural policy planning and coordination
sector wide, not only for the project, and would have three cells: Project
Preparation (to identify and prepare projects); Monitoring and Evaluation (to
coordinate activities and oversee implementation); Policy and Planning (to
prepare agricultural development programs and strategies and advise on policy).
Each cell would have a small staff transferred from similar duties with the
Commissioner and DAFP. Terms of reference of the Unit have been agreed (Annex
30). In order to assure efficient implementation of the buildings component
of the project and timely disbursement of the credit, the Public Works
Department, or such other department as the Association may agree, would
establish promptly a special Buildings Implementation Unit for the duration of
the design and construction stage. A qualified and experienced director of
the Unit would be appointed. Suitable assurances were obtained.
5.03      The Department of Agriculture and Cooperation would directly imple-
ment most components, particularly through DAFP and the Registrar of Coopera-
tives. Other institutions would be: OUAT; the Board of Revenue (land records
and survey); OLIC (ground water monitoring and tubewell technology); and the
Bureau of Statistics and Economics.
5.04      A high-level Adaptive Research and Extension Advising Panel, has
been recently formed. This Panel will evaluate seasonal research results;
define a basic program for additional trials; formulate seasonal extension
programs; propose annual field demonstration programs for practices already
proven; assess requirements for further coordination of research and extension
and related needs (eg, input and credit supply). It comprises: Agricultural
Production Commissioner (Chairman); Secretary, Agriculture and Cooperation;
Commissioner, Command Area Development; Director, DAFP; Director, CRRI; Vice-
Chancellor, OUAT; Head of Project Planning and Coordination Unit; Additional
Director (Extension) (Member Secretary). District Agricultural Officers,
Subject Matters Specialists, and cooperative staff are co-opted as necessary.
The Panel meets twice yearly, at least two months before each season. The
Secretary prepares agenda from data supplied by DAFP and OUAT.
5.05      Changes in the extension organization are described in Annex 3
and paras 3.03-3.06. During negotiations GOO confirmed that extension staff
had been transferred to DAFP, and a competent and experienced person appointed
full-time to head the extension service.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.06      The Monitoring and Evaluation Cell (para 5.02) would be primarily
responsible for checking on project progress and effect. It would be headed
by an economist, supported by an agriculturist and a systems analyst. With
regard to Extension and Research, the Cell would use information flowing from
BSE (Annex 14 and paras 3.37-3.39) and from the Farm Management Data Unit in
OUAT (Annex 13 and paras 3.35-3.36). BSE would also provide the Cell with an
estimate of the uptake of practices introduced by the extension service. The



- 20 -
Farm Mlanagement Data Unit, through its fully costed farm samples, would provide
a measure of extension and research success, in terms of farm profitability.
Data from both these sources would also be analyzed and provided to the Panel
referred to in para 5.04, and thence to the Departments concerned.
Accounts and Auditing
5.07      Assurances were given that:  all institutions using project funds
would keep separate accounts for the project and these would be audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles acceptable to IDA; accounts
would be prepared annually for audit and these would be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; quarterly summary
draft accounts of the project would be submitted to IDA promptly; as would
quarterly project progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMER BENEFITS
Yields
6.01      Yields of rainfed and irrigated crops are projected to increase:
firstly, by widespread adoption of improved cultural practices and second,
through improved seeds and increased use of fertilizer and plant protection
chemicals. Yields of the major crop - rice - at increasing rates of adoption
of practices (Annex 2), are projected as follows:
A           B               C
Improved      A plus          A Plus
Present    Cultural       Fertilizer      HYV plus more
Yields     Practices      20 kg N/ha       fertilizer
and plant protection
----------  Rice Yield in Tons per Hectare  /a -----------
Rainfed
Kharif          0.8       1.0              1.3              1.5 - 2.0
Irrigated
Kharif          1.0       1.3              1.7              2.0 - 2.3
Rabi            1.3        1.5             2.1              2.6 - 3.3
/a  Yields of rice; milling percentage at 66% whole paddy.



- 21 -
6.02      These yields are well within field results already achieved in
Orissa. Based on projected uptake rates (Annex 2, Table 2) and expected
yield under each practice (Annex 31, Table 2), average yields for all food-
grains in tons/ha are projected to increase from 0.8 at present to 0.9 by
1980 (year 4) and 1.1 by 1984 (year 8).
Marketable Surplus
6.03      As a result of increases in production, from the project and
otherwise, the net surplus of foodgrain, pulses and oilseeds for export to
other states is expected to rise substantially. Precise forecasts, depending
on many variables, are difficult; but it would be disappointing if the present
200,000 tons surplus were not multiplied several times. Assuming about 30% of
lowland and 15% of upland farmers adopt the simple package of practices (A),
and another 30% of lowland and 10% of upland add, in addition to (A) a small
amount of fertilizer (B), and less than 10% of lowland and 5% of upland adopt
the full package (C), foodgrain production could exceed 7 M tons by Year 8
and marketable surpluses could exceed 1 M tons.
Storage and Processing
6.04      Storage, processing and distribution facilities were stretched to
the limit in 1975/76, when a total of 200,000 tons of rice were estimated to
be procured. Total estimated storage available, at 300,000 tons, is suf-
ficient to handle the export surplus. The total marketed surplus, allowing
for both public and private trade within Orissa, is higher and could be as
much as 1.2 M tons by 1980.
6.05      While India is short of foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds and there
is thus a large nationwide market for production from the project, there
are considerable organizational and distributional constraints and GOO will
require much greater support from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) than it
has received so far. Once the results of the all-India foodgrain storage
study are available, 1/ GOI, GOO and FCI are expected to tackle the planning
and creation of institutional procurement facilities to handle the additional
production.
Prices
6.06      Between 1974 and 1976 the annual average wholesale market price
for rice has fallen from Rs 1,500 - Rs 2,100 per ton (US$170-250) to Rs 800
(US$89) per ton, or about the procurement level paid by GOO. This fall
reflects the unusual increase in production due to very favorable weather
conditions. The economic price derived from the Bank's projection for the
1980 world market, in 1976 constant prices, with appropriate adjustments
for transportation and grade, is Rs 1,490 per ton and has been used in eval-
uating project benefits (Annex 34). In financial projections of farmers'
benefits, a price of Rs 1,000 per ton has been used.
1/   Financed under IDA Credit 267-IN and being evaluated.



- 22 -
Farmer Benefits
6.07      On the typical 0.75 ha rainfed farm, which at present has a net
farm income 1/ of about Rs 515 (US$57) and no cash surplus after meeting sub-
sistence needs, net farm income would be expected to rise to about Rs 1,290
(US$145) at full development (between Years 6 and 10). Many small farmers,
averaging about 0.75 ha rainfed, now produce less than total family food
needs and have to rely on off-farm employment to maintain a livelihood.
Adoption of improved technology, particularly fertilizer and HYV seed,
would be slower on these farms due to the higher risk involved under
purely rainfed conditions. Where extension is associated with irrigation,
e.g. from a dugwell, production would rise above family needs and leave a
cash surplus of about Rs 800 a year. In purely rainfed conditions, contri-
bution to subsistence needs would rise from about 50% to 80%. The project
would provide additional on-farm employment to about 400,000 people by year
8 and create new jobs in ancillary industries.
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Project costs of the main production oriented components of exten-
sion and research and two related components of extension training and farm
implement demonstration, amount to about US$18 M or US$5 per benefitting farm
family. The project would reach a minimum of 0.7 M out of a potential 3.4 M
farm families who cultivate a total of some 6.8 M ha statewide. Almost all
farmers, except in the more remote areas, would benefit from direct or ['idirect
contact with extension workers, who would convey practical and profit-oriented
advice for crop production, based primarily on rice.
Economic Rate of Return
7.02      The design of the project, its timing, scope, relative size of
project components and organizational set-up are based on past experience
with similar successful agricultural extension and research reorganization
in India. Budgetary and organizational constraints have been taken into
account. No attempt has been made to estimate an economic rate of return
for the project in the usual way because of difficulties in forecasting with
any accuracy, the incremental benefits. In the first place, it would be
virtually impossible to differentiate that part of the total benefit which
would be the result of irrigation development and other farming inputs (r.     t-
lementary but not financed under this project) from the benefits from exten-
sion and research (financed under this project). In the second place, there
is not enough experience in Orissa to estimate acceptance rates with any
degree of accuracy. However, partly because of large sunk costs, whereby
the efficiency of an existing service is radically improved, the economic
rate of return of the project is likely to be well in excess of the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in India (thought to be about 12%).
1/   Net Farm Income is defined as value of total production at farmgate
prices less inputs, hired labor, bullock and other costs, but exclud-
ing family labor.



- 23 -
7.03      Instead, an estimate has been made of the increase in paddy pro-
duction required from participating farmers to achieve an economic rate of
return equal to the opportunity cost of capital (Annex 34). This comes to 8
kg/ha state-wide from year 7 onwards, which is low and well below what is
likely to be achieved. However, not all farmers would benefit equally from
the project, and if only 20% of farmers participated, yields would have to
increase by only 40 kg/ha in order to have an economic rate of return equal to
the opportunity cost of capital. The potential is about 2,000 kg/ha under
rainfed conditions and 3,300 kg/ha under irrigation. Average annual statewide
yields, with the project, are expected to rise by 100 kg/ha by Year 4 and a
further 200 kg/ha by Year 8. In the IDA financed Chambal and Rajasthan
Command and Development Projects (Reports 430-IN and 447-IN) rice, wheat and
mustard yields increased by over 50% as a result of improved extension of the
type this project would provide. These yield increases were achieved within
two years of the introduction of the new extension system. This project is
expected to provide similar rapid increases in yields.
Project Risks
7.04      Project risks are exceptionally difficult to evaluate, being depen-
dent on so many factors. The most important factor for success is wholehearted
acceptance by GOO and by farmers. Experience elsewhere in India is encouraging.
The system is designed to be thorough, dependable and reach all manner of
farmers without discrimination. However, expected benefits are so great that,
barring a natural disaster or acute mismanagement, the return on the relatively
small investment would remain satisfactory.
Employment Aspects
7.05      Annual incremental on-farm employment due to the project would rise
to about 55 M mandays by Year 4 and 100 M mandays by Year 8, reflecting addi-
tional employment generated by improved practices. By Year 8, through better
utilization of existing labor plus incremental job opportunities, total addi-
tional on-farm employment would be equivalent to about 400,000 man-years. New
jobs would also be created in implement manufacture and distribution; supply
of inputs; handling of an increased marketable surpluses; and in farm manage-
ment data collection and processing. Increased agricultural activity would
also have a multiplier effect, generating further employment.
Project Role Relative to National and Other Projects' Objectives
7.06      The project is of considerable importance to the success of other
agricultural projects in Orissa, particularly the planned ARDC ground water
development program, composite CAD project (medium and minor surface flow
irrigation) and major CAD.
7.07      The increase in foodgrain, pulse and oilseed production would raise
the level of nutrition in Orissa and provide an increased surplus for the food-
grain deficit areas in the rest of India.



- 24 -
7.08      In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and
through the use of "optimal" packages of practices, involving HYV with sub-
stantial doses of fertiliser and pesticides. These improvements are fre-
quently financed by credit, often not available to small and tenant farmers
with recommendations that are unsuited to the majority of farmers. This
project provides an opportunity for small and marginal farmers to enjoy the
benefits of increased productivity. Apart from generating high economic
benefits at low cost, the project would, therefore, also have considerable
impact on income distribution.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations GOO confirmed that:
extension staff had been transferred to DAFP; and a
competent and experienced person has been appointed
full-time to head the extension service (5.05).
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following major
points, that:
(a) to ensure mobility of extension staff GOO would
make credit available for purchase of suitable
means of transport, on terms and conditLoris
which shall be sufficient to create incentive
for the purchase of such transport (3.07);
(b) GOO would provide adequate low cost housing facilities
to enable its village level workers to live in the area
assigned for their operations; and except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, GOO would, (i) within two months
from the date of the Project Agreement, furnish the Asso-
ciation for its review the standard design and cost esti-
mates for such houses, and (ii) within six months from the
date of the Project Agreement, complete a survey to deter-
mine the exact number and locations of such houses (3.08);
(c) OUAT applied research stations at Bhubaneswar, Chiplima,
Simliguda and Keonjhar would be included in the project,
together with DAFP adaptive research farms at 13 agricul-
tural ranges; and OUAT would provide permanent profes-
sional staff devoting full time to research on these
farms, which would be administered by DAFP (3.10 and 3.11);
(d) a Central Research Coordination Unit would be established
by OUAT in Bhubaneswar (3.10);



- 25 -
(e) to assure efficient implementation of the buildings
component under the Project and to expedite disbursements
related thereto, GOO would (i) establish a Buildings
Implementation Unit (BIU) within the Public Works Depart-
ment, or such other Department, as the Association may
agree, and (ii) appoint a Director of BIU with suitable
qualifications and experience (5.02).
8.03      Agreement was also reached on the following condition of credit
effectiveness that: a Policy Planning and Coordination Unit would be estab-
lished (5.02).
8.04      Subject to the above condition and assurances, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$20 million.
February 9, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Orissa
A. Background
General
1.        Agriculture is dominant in Orissa's economy contributing about
51% of total domestic product. About 80% of the nearly 26 M population
depends directly or indirectly on agriculture and about 75% of the work
force is engaged in it. Of a total area of about 15.5 M ha, 6.8 M ha are
cultivated. Of this, 16% is irrigable, but less than 4% of the area receives
water in the dry (rabi) season.
2.        Paddy is the most important crop occupying 70% of all cropped area.
Over 95% is grown in the kharif season, June to December, when moisture is
available from the SW monsoon. In the coastal areas, paddy is virtually the
only crop grown in kharif; in upland areas the cropping pattern is slightly
more diverse, small grains, pulses and oilseeds being grown in addition to
paddy. About 20% of the area is double cropped, most of the second crop
coming after kharif paddy on residual moisture. Statewide, in both the kharif
and rabi seasons, other cereals (wheat, maize, millets and barley) take up
another 7% and pulses 14% of the cropped area. This leaves about 9% of the
cropped area for oilseeds (6%), fibers (1%), vegetables and spices. Rice
yields in Orissa, as in other states of Eastern India, are low in relation
to the rest of India and similar areas in Asia. Peak achievement has never
exceeded about 1.0 ton of rice or 1.5 tons of paddy per hectare (Table 1).
Yields are about twice this in Punjab, Haryana and Tamil Nadu.   In neighbor-
ing West Bengal, with similar climatic patterns, yields are 30% higher, though
a higher proportion of the crop is irrigated, about 40% as compared to close
to 15% in Orissa.
3.        Agricultural production in Orissa has stagnated in the past decade,
despite increased area under cultivation (about 350,000 ha) increased irri-
gated area (close to 500,000 ha), and introduction of HYV rice and wheat.
With a quickly growing population, per capita production has actually de-
clined. There is thus both need and potential for increasing production
through intensified action.
The Rural Setting and Economy
4.        Orissa has substantial natural resources, including industrial raw
materials. In particular there are large deposits of coal, iron, limestone,



ANNEX I
Page 2
manganese and chromite and many other valuable minerals, including dolomite,
bauxite, graphite, nickel ore and quartzite. This wealth is still largely
untapped and the State will probably continue to be heavily dependent on
agriculture for many more years. Agriculture and allied activities account
for about 60% of State income at current prices, while the corresponding
figure for all India is less than 50%. Agriculture accounts for about 57%
of income in Orissa compared with 30% in West Bengal, 46% in Bihar and 47%
in Assam.
5.        The pressures of population and poverty in rural Orissa are consi-
derable. Among Indian States, Orissa not only has the highest percentage
living in rural areas (over 90%) but is also probably the poorest state (with
64% of the population below the poverty line). The population is also strati-
fied along caste, class and tribal lines, and is caught in a web of social-
economic relationships and land tenure systems which further hamper agricul-
ture development and modernization. The scheduled tribes and castes (23% and
15% of the population respectively) are economically the weakest sections of
the community (Table 2). Overlapping with the scheduled tribes and castes, but
recognized separately for administrative purposes, are the "small" and "mar-
ginal" farmers, with holdings of less than 2 ha, who represent roughly 2.6 M
out of a total of 3.4 M cultivators' households (Table 3). Although these
farmers operate over 76% of all operational holdings, they control less than
40% of total cultivable land, while farms of 5 ha or more (representing less
than 7% of holdings) account for about 30% of the land. Adding to the skewed
distribution of income in the rural areas are the landless and agricultural
laborers, who constitute an additional 1.8 M households. Complicating the
problem of size of holding is fragmentation, each holding being comprised,
on average, of 3 plots.
6.        Agricultural production can be considerably influenced by ownership
and tenancy patterns. The bulk of agricultural land in Orissa is owned by
its operators; about 5.9 M ha, or 92% of the total area is recorded as fully
owned and operated, the remaining 8% rented from others. From the statistics,
the problem of share croppers does not appear really severe with 66% of the
rented area (330,000 ha) recorded as under share cropping. However, in
practice, a much larger but unquantified area is believed to be under
share-cropping, although under recent land reform legislation the position
is likely to improve.
7.        The mass of farmers in Orissa are almost wholly dependent on human
labor and draft animals for power to cultivate their land and to perform all
other farm operations. Although there are 1.9 M agricultural laborers,
in addition to 3.4 M cultivators, there is a sharp seasonal shortage of labor
at critical peak periods such as when transplanting and weeding rice. Simi-
larly with animal draft, there are some 2.6 M working animals in Orissa; yet
under rainfed conditions, timely cultivation is only possible on part of the
land.
8.        A serious obstacle to an immediate surge in agricultural production
is the quality of what may be called the "delivery system", which explains



ANNEX I
Page 3
perhaps some of the paradoxes evident in this sector. Orissa carries out
important rice research which has produced a large number of improved varie-
ties and technology; yet few farmers use them. Orissa is a major producer of
nitrogenous fertilizers, yet uses only about 50,000 tons on its own land.
The Goverm-nent stresses the importance of credit as a catalyst for development,
yet the majority of the farmers depend on the merchant and money lender or use
no credit because it is hard to get. The extension service is not short of
competent and motivated workers, but yet it completely lacks the ability to
deliver. Extension, research, input supply and credit must improve greatly
if advance is to be made.
Climate
9.        The climate of Orissa is suitable for cropping throughout the year
with irrigation in the winter. Some crops and varieties, however are limited
to specific growing seasons. Temperatures are lowest in December-January,
with an average minimum daily of 120 - 15 0C , and average maximum daily of
27 - 28 C. The corresponding temperatures for the hottest months, April,
May and June, are minima 260 - 28 C and maxima 370 - 39C.
10.       Rainfall is the dominant climatic factor.  The yearly mean for the
State is about 1,500 mm, varying from 1,300 to 1,650 for the 13 districts
(Table 5). However, from one year to the next, variations in a district might
be as high as 50%. 76% of the rain falls in about 60 days during the four
months June-September, the main SW monsoon season.  But at both ends of the
monsoon there are periods of highly variable precipitation. High rainfall
intensities, typical during the monsoon, lead to much runoff, and flooding of
lowlands. The following figures show the rainfall distribution pattern:
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Rainfall-mm  14  26   24   37   73   215  352  338  239  136   40   6   1,500
Rainy days  0.9 1.6  1.5  2.5   4.4  10.1 15.6 15.5 12.2  6.2  1.6  0.4  72.5
11.       This pattern dictates that intensive cropping in rabi is only
possible with irrigation. The effect of the variable precipitation at either
end of the monsoon is more complex. With the available implements and draft
animals, unless there are sufficient pre-monsoon showers, farmers are unable
to prepare their land for cultivation before the monsoon breaks. Typically
this is towards the end of June (unless some limited source of irrigation is
available, they are not even able to start nursery plots before this date).
With perhaps two weeks required for land preparation, this implies planting
often as late as mid-July. Miost of the rice varieties in common use then
require about 100 days before the critical growth stage of grain formation.
By then, however, the peak, predictable portion of the monsoon has passed.
While average monthly data indicate that there should just be sufficient
rainfall to prevent the paddy from drying out, in fact the weekly analysis of



ANNEX 1
Page 4
data shows that there is an increasing probability of damaging moisture stress
after mid-September. Most of the kharif varieties planted (90%) are local
photosensitive types which, irrespective of the date of planting, will mature
late November to December. Under many of the soil and topography conditions
in Orissa, the effects of the vagaries of the monsoon can be extremely damag-
ing. Implications are that increasing the reliability of a kharif crop
depends on earlier planting or on the substitution of current long-maturity
varieties (145 days) with short maturing photo insensitive varieties (95-105
days). In soils of low water-holding capacities, i.e., the higher uplands, a
change from paddy to drought-resistant course grains would be desirable.
Physiography
12.       Orissa State lies between 17 031' - 22027' North latitude and 81 027' -
87 030' East longitude and covers an area of 156,000 sq km. It is bounded in
the southeast by the 300-mile coastline of the Bay of Bengal, in the north
by Bihar, in the northeast by West Bengal and in the southwest by Andhra and
Madhya Pradesh. Given the physical features and agro-climatic conditions,
Orissa may be divided roughly into four zones: 1) the Northern Plateau,
2) the Central Table Land, 3) the Eastern Ghat Region, and 4) the Coastal
Plain.
13.       The Northern Plateau is a continuation of the Chotanagpur plateau
of Bihar and includes the districts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Sundargarh,
ard parts of Dhenkanal, Cuttack, Balasore and Sambalpur (see Map). About 23%
of the total area of the State is in this region. There are a number of hill
ranges rising to elevations of 2,000' to 3,000' above sea level. About 45% of
the area is covered by forest, and 36% is under cultivation.
14.       The Central Table Land consists of the district of Bolangir, the
southern part of Dhenkanal district, and parts of Phulbani, Cuttack, and
Sambalpur districts. The region, as large as the northern plateau, is
generally flat with undulating and folded topography. It consists chiefly
of the Mahanadi basin. The table land gradually rises from east to west
and rarely is the elevation more than 1,000'. The western part of the
region is intersected by small rivers at almost regular distances. With
the commencement of irrigation from Hirakud Project, agricultural production
in the area has been greatly increased. Among the four agroclimatic regions
it is the most suitable for wheat and, next to the coastal region, for paddy.
15.       The Eastern Ghat Region mostly consists of hill ranges which belong
to the main line of Eastern Ghats along with some plains and valleys lying
between the hill ranges. These hill ranges also contain extensive plateau,
most of which have elevations between 1,000' to 1,500'. This is the largest
of the four regions, covering 36% of the State, and consists of the dis-
tricts of Koraput, Kalahandi, Phulbani and some of Ganjam. Forest is pre-
dominant, covering some of Kalahandi, more than half of Koraput and almost
all of Phulbani. The southern portion of Koraput is a plateau with elevation



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of more than 2,000 ft. A large part of Kalahandi district with an elevation
of about 900 ft. lies between the river Tel in the north and the Jeypote pla-
teau in the south and is the area most suitable for rice. Most of the other
areas of Koraput district are characterized by scattered and sharp isolated
hills, sometimes with thin forest but mostly bare. The hills in the area are
intercepted with small meandering streams having flood plains terraced and
cultivated with rice.
16.       The Coastal Plain runs from north to south, a strip 15 to 60 miles
wide in the districts of Balasore, Cuttack and Puri, and the eastern part of
Ganjam. The coastal plain is characterized by a number of deltas. This
zone covers about 18% of the total. Being influenced by the sea, the climate
differs from the other three regions. The relative humidity in the plain is
high throughout the year. For crop production this is the most important
region of Orissa.
Soils
17.       The soils of Orissa can be grouped into residual and transported
soils. The residual soils of the uplands are predominantly red and yellow
laterites which are typically highly leached, acidic (pH 5.0-6.50), and low
in organic matter and nitrogen, with high phosphorous fixation.   Although
lateritic, most do not contain lateritic masses within their profiles. They
tend to be shallow, sandy and erodible on the steeper slopes. Their pro-
ductivity is therefore limited both by fertility and water holding capacity.
The uplands also contain smaller areas of "black cotton" and brown, forest
soils, which are deeper, finer in texture, and generally more fertile, but
are much less permeable and more erosive than the red and yellow soils.
They have a high water holding capacity, but are slow to dry and since they
cannot be worked when very wet, seedbed preparation and land cultivation are
difficult without adequate water control.
18.       The transported alluvial soils found in the lowlands are moderately
fertile, slightly acidic, deep and more productive than the residuals. These
soils are ideal for paddy production. Residual moisture in the winter is not
enough for a second (rabi) crop of paddy, but pulses can be widely grown. The
potential of the alluvial soils of the coastal zone depends primarily upon
elevation and therefore the intensity and duration of inundation. In the low-
est areas, flood control measures are necessary to increase productivity. Al-
though the transported soils cover only 6% of the State's area, they are the
most important agriculturally. Along the coast there are problems of salinity.
Leaching, drainage and construction of embankments to check encroachment of
seawater are needed to improve fertility.
Topography and Land Use
19.       Microtopography is extremely important and traditionally plays a
major role in cropping patterns and practices. It is closely related to water
availability during the growth season, and crops are planned accordingly.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Cultivable area is thus divided into what are traditionally termed high,
medium and low lands. The high lands are usually planted to upland, short
duration paddy or, in the lighter soils and slopes, to millets, maize, oil-
seeds and pigeon pea (arhar). They are the first to suffer in drought.
Medium lands are planted to medium duration paddy and lowlands to long dur-
ation, relatively flood resistant paddy, harvested in December and even
in January. Many farmers own parcels of land in all three categories, pro-
viding them with some form of insurance under varying climatic conditions.
Of the 6.9 million ha under cultivation, about 47% are upland, 30% medium and
23% lowland.
B. Agricultural Production
Performance
20.       Agricultural productivity has been virtually stagnant in Orissa
over the past ten years (Table 4). Yields of the major crop, kharif rice,
have fluctuated between 750 and 1,000 kg/ha. This during a period when,
elsewhere in India, farmers were learning about and reaping benefits from high
yielding varieties, chemical fertilizers and tubewells. There have, however,
been some large percentage increases in the production of a few minor crops.
Rabi rice production had increased six-fold by its peak in 1972/73 over its
1964/65 base. By 1973/74, production of wheat was 12 times and of maize 3
times the 1964-65 level; but the aggregate increase in annual production of
all cereals was about 400,000 tons during the 10-year period, rising from
3.9 M tons yearly average for 1964-67 to 4.3 M tons for 1972-75. Production
of most other crops has registered modest increases, with the exceptidn of
oilseeds which increased about 100% by 1973/74 over the 1964/65 base. To-
gether however, these crops occupy less than 10% of the total cropped area
in Orissa.
21.       The foodgrain production increase over the last 10 years is
disappointing. During this period 350,000 ha of new land has been brought
into cultivation, which, with average yields, should have produced 1.0 ton/
ha. With a further 500,000 ha newly irrigated, and 400,000 of this planted
to HYV, a yield increase of at least 1.0 ton/ha should have resulted, not
including the increased cropping intensity made possible. With an increase
of 600% in fertilizer use to about 63,000 tons of nutrients, it would be rea-
sonable to project production increases in the range 850,000 - 1 M tons. Yet
only 400,000 tons was recorded.
22.       In Orissa, the economy, income and nutrition are heavily dependent
on rice production. Total population grew by 24% from 1965 to 1975; using
three-year averages centered on 1966 and 1974, total foodgrain production has
increased only 11%; using the same three-year averages, per capita gross pro-
duction declined 7%. This decline obviously means farm families either have
less to consume at home or, more likely as Orissa is an exporting state, less
to sell in the market, inducing a decline in real income. In all but two of



ANNEX 1
Page 7
the last ten years, Orissa has produced enough foodgrain to consume at the
all-India per capita average and export. Official export figures show about
50,000 tons a year, but actual exports in good crop years are estimated to
reach several hundred thousand tons.                                          (
23.       Area, production and yields of the main groups of crops in 1973/74
were: 1/
Area         Production       Av. Yields
Crop                 ('000 ha)       ('000 tons)        (kg/ha)
Rice                        4,734          4,404             930
Other cereals                 521            395             758
Pulses                        963            475             493
Oilseeds                      388            285             734
Fibers                         99            111           1,121
All others                    163            650 /a
Total all crops            6,868          6,320
/a   Includes sugar cane, sweet potato, potato and banana.
24.       About 15%, or 900,000 ha of the land is irrigated.  However, most
irrigation is limited to the rainy season and depends directly on the run of
the river; only about 250,000 ha can be fully irrigated in the dry season
(rabi) as well. There are plans for developing the tremendous potential of
ground and surface water in Orissa, but surface irrigation cannot be a signi-
ficant source of accelerated production in the short term.
C. Potentials and Constraints
25.       The potential for increasing agricultural production in Orissa
will be discussed briefly in the following paragraphs; they are treated
more fully in annexes on the related project components.
Natural Resources
26.       The favorable climate for plant growth and the relationship of
soils and their topography to rainfall utilization has been reviewed in
Part A. Limited additional land for cultivation is available, mainly land
now left fallow, estimated at 1 M ha, but wtdely scattered and varying from
year to year. Technology and resources (fertilizer, and labor -- animal
1/   For detailed area and production data see Table 4.  1974-75 data are
not presented here because drought made that year atypical.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
and human) are needed to release this potential. By contrast, however, there
are large areas in the hill region, under shifting cultivation by tribal
farmers, which should never be cultivated. They do not appear in the stat-
istics. Irreparable damage may be caused, not only to the forest but to lower
lying agricultural land below. Such misuse of forest area is widespread in
Koraput and Phulbani. GOI is presently studying the problem.
27.       Water sources and irrigation potential are large.  It is estimated
that at full development, perhaps as much as 4 M ha, compared with about
1.3 M ha now irrigated, could receive kharif irrigation; and about one-half of
that be irrigated in rabi as well. Developing this potential is a long and
costly process. However, there is much scope for increasing production on
existing irrigated land by overall improvement of water distribution and
drainage systems, and by better cultural practices, seed varieties, use of
fertilizers and water management. Yields could be at least doubled by these
means, if fully and effectively carried out.
Infrastructure and the Agricultural Economy
28.       Transportation, supply and marketing in Orissa are not highly de-
veloped. Railroads serve the eastern, northern and coastal districts of the
state, and a network of paved roads covers the major producing areas. The
interior, especially the hilly areas, is poorly served, however. Given im-
proved organization of institutions serving agriculture, and an increase in
storage and trucking capability, roads and railways should not pose a
major constraint in the short term, as is proven in good years, when
large quantities of grain are shipped.
Human and Social
29.       The poverty of most of Orissa's farmers is a major constraint to
development. Special programs to reach the small, marginal and tribal farmers
are gaining momentum, though they have welfare-political motivation. The
project, as planned, would reach many of these non-tribal farmers. Hence,
the importance of developing and extending low and medium cost, labor-intensive
technology, and of strengthening the service institutions.
30.       The leadership of Orissa is committed to increasing agricultural
production, giving it high priority in a selective "core sector" approach to
the 1975-76 Annual Plan. A definite policy has been formulated for rapid
increase in foodgrain production, to be achieved by more effective use of
water, increasing irrigated area, fuller use of fertilizer, improved seed and
other inputs, improved cultural practices and multiple cropping.
31.       The officers and workers of the Directorate of Agriculture (DAFP)
demonstrate much enthusiam and willingness to bring this about. At the core
of the project is the farmer of Orissa. He is hard working, intelligent, and
knowledgeable. He has shown ability to survive with meager means under



ANNEX I
Page 9
difficult conditions. He is quick to adopt and adapt when he is certain of
the benefits of the new method or technology. The rapid adoption of rabi
rice and wheat using HYV, the use of the mouldboard plow in many villages,
the tremendous enthusiasm for dugwells, and the recent rapid spread of
vegetable growing in Phulbani are examples of this.
32.       Tribal people, close to one quarter of Orissa's population, are
the main occupants of the hill regions of Orissa (Table 1). Though depending
largely on forest produce, many cultivate land, often shifting from one site
to another as fertility declines. There is little information on their crop-
ping patterns. It is known, however, that their yields are extremely low,
as is their use of inputs of all kinds. In the short-range there [s leed to
work on increasing yields in these areas, bearing in mind the special social
and geographical setting; viz, very small villages, often of 5-6 families,
widely dispersed in forest areas with only footpath communication. The longer
range solution for these regions will probably require a shift to a tree-
crop--forest economy combined with other crafts and occupations.
Farm Structure
33.       Land tenure, and especially the small size and scattered location
of holdings, are serious constraints to production. Basic changes in land-
holding patterns are both socially and politically very difficult to achieve.
In fact, landholdings will become smaller in years to come as districts
in Orissa, which were Princely States with relatively large holdings until
Independence, effect further land distribution. Small landholdings by
themselves need not inhibit production increase as proven by great yield
advances achieved in Japan, Taiwan and Korea. By developing messages
appropriate for small, marginal and sharecropping farmers and ensuring that
the "delivery system" is geared to reach them effectively, the project expects
to have an impact on this large sector, little reached heretofore.
Institutional
34.       Research  is the responsibility of the Orissa University of Agri-
culture and Technology (OUAT), in Bhubaneswar. It has but few, ill-equipped
regional research facilities and is poorly staffed. It is not, on the whole,
sufficiently field oriented and although it has achieved some good results in
rice, it has had little impact on total production through lack of ability to
adapt its results locally. The Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) of ICAR
is at Cuttack, near Bhubaneswar, covering all aspects of rice production on an
all-India basis. It has produced superior modern varieties used in many
states.  The main effects of the CRRI program have not, however, been felt Ln
Orissa and the other eastern States where acceptance of kharif HYV has been
small and where the yield potential of rabi HYV has not been exploited. There
is much scope for strengthening OUAT's applied and adaptive research program
through the project, and developing in it, jointly with DAFP, the capability
for locally testing varieties and practices before final recommendations are
arrived at and extended (Annex 4).



ANNEX 1
Page 10
35.       Other supporting services, input supply, credit and marketing, are
supplied either through private channels or through the primary and regional
cooperative societies. (Seeds and plant protection chemicals are generally
supplied through DAFP.) In spite of its weaknesses, the cooperative move-
ment in all three service areas, is an essential factor in meeting the require-
ments of increased agricultural production in Orissa, to be achieved by
millions of farmers as envisaged. The cooperative sector must therefore
be utilized and will need considerable support (Details in Annexes 8 and 10).
Attachments:
Table I Area, Production and Yield of Major Food Crops
Table 2 Population by Districts
Table 3 Land Distribution and Tenancy
Table 4 Yearly Rainfall by District
October 28, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Orissa
A1rea ('000 ha), Production ('000 tons) and Yields (kgh)oMarFodCps  1970-75
1570-71                1Q71-72                1972-73                 1973-74                1974-75
Area     Production  Area       Production  Area       Production  Area       Production  Area       Production
'rop                        (Yield)                (Yield)               (Yield)                 (Yield)                (Yield)
Autun:l U1ce           627           339       847          476       769          386       845          492      697           248
(MLO)                  (562)                 (502)                   (582)                   (356)
Anter ?i-ce           370          3574      3637         2900      3524         3349      3725         3699    3575           2719
(c614)                 (797)                 (95o)                   ( 93)                   (760)
Summer 'lce            135           187       162          244       183          248       164          213      156            1c5
(1386)                 (1503)                (1355)                  (1299)                  (1276)
IR.heat                  13            18       2:            39       51            85        52           83       55            86
(1423)                  (1857)               (1667)                   (1596)                 (1564)
Mai ze                   7 '7          59        75           63       78            61        85           70       7            74
(820)                  (840)                 (782)                    (824)                  (763)
Other Ceraals          340           218       3147         242       370          243       385           243     405            216
(6143)                 (697)                 (657)                    (631)                  (533)
Pulses                 845           466       861          390       990          489       963          475    1003             428
(552)                  (453)                 (494)                    (493)                  (427)
Oilseeds               330           215       340          243       376          266       387           286     1454           290
(653)                  (715)                 (707)                    (739)                  (639)
Sugarcane               30           161        31          192        31          200        41           241      414           275
(5385)                  (6265)               (6514)                   (5878)                 (6250)
Sources:  Orissa Ministry of Agriculture, Directorate of Sconomics and Statistics, and Bureau of Economics and Statistics.
July 8, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table2
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Orissa
Population by Districts in Orissa (1971)
Density       Scheduled   Scheduled    Percen-
per sq         Caste        Tribe      tage of
Name of District      Population        km            (SC)        (ST)      SC and ST
1  Balasore            1,830,504       286          338,802     129,192        25.6
2  Balangir            1,263,657       142          208,430     249,131        36.2
3  Cuttack             3,827,678       3)41         691,180     110,746        20.9
4  Phenkanal           1,293,914       120          216,887     166,999        29.7
5  Ganjam             2,293,808        183          365,284     228,945        25.9
6  Kalahandi           1,163,869        98          199,151     340,541        46. 4
7  Keonjhar             955,514        116         107,784      448,675       58.2
8  Koraput            2,043,281         76         274,115   1,151,231        69.8
9 Mayurbhanj          1,434,200        138         103,713      839,835       65.8
10  Phulbani             621,675         56         117,987      250,605        55.3
11  Puri               2,340,859        230         316,831       86,591       17.2
12  Sambalpur          1, 844),898      105         287,998      519,016       43.7
13  Sundargarh         1,030,758        107          82,692      550,401       61.4
Total State       21.9hL,615 lhi              3.310.854   5.071.908        38.2
Source: (i) Census of India, 1971 (Orissa) General Population Table.
(ii) Statistical outline of Orissa, 1972.
July 8, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Orissa
Land Distribution and Tenancy
Size of
Holding               Number of Holdings         Area of Holdings
(ha)                  (')       %          ('OOO ha)      %
below 0.5                 732        22            217         3
0.5 - 1.0                744        22            553         9
1.0 - 2.0               1121       33            1714        27
2.0 - 5.0                577       17            1g91        30
5.0 - 10.0               185        5            1246        19
10.0 - 20.0                41         1            533         8
20 and above                8         -            274         4
Total              3408      100            6448      100
Source: Report on Agricultural Census of Orissa 1970-71.
July 8, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Orissa
Average and Yearly Rainfall. by district. 1901-50 and 1965 throib_h 1974
(millimeters)
Ave.       Ave.
1965    1966    1967   1968    1969    1570    1571    1972    1973    1974           1965-74    1901-50
Balasore         1096    1039    1246   1508    1512    1657    2133    1140    1569    1127              1407        1568
Balangir           789    1103    1316   1087    1272    1666    164i    1236    1030          686        1183        1443
Cuttack           1270    1259    1405   1576    1331    1765    1859    1146    1380    1011             1401        1501
Thenkanal         662    1094    1122    953    1323    1534    1853    1238    1313           818        1195        1421
Ganjam             842     775      780   150    1306    1377    1412    1239    1001         998        1123        1296
Kalahandi          669    1265    1887   1013    1456    1830    173i4    1258    1228         740        1308        1378
Keonjhar          1395    1269    1449   1371    1268    1663    2010    1030    1450    1138             1404        1534
Koraput            923    423    1366   1276    1182    2119    1895    1339    1266    1010              1380        1522
Mayurbhanj        1386    1165    1345   1388    1238    1508    1842    1367    2010    1277             1453        1648
Phulbani          1101    1145    1121   1159    1361    168h    1646    1126    1290          813        1249        1597
Puri               952    1247    1291   1616    1345    1567    1669    1140    1306          989        1312        1449
-zambalpur         940     865    1616   1206    1169    1588    1757    1039    1366          828        1237        1528
Lundargarh         936    1103    1301   1114    1173    1499    1831         995    1375      932        1226        1648
Orissa Average   997    1135    1327   1296    1303    1654    1791    1176    1352           951        1298        1503
CD4
4>H
July 8, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Practices
1.        DAFP has made serious attempts to tackle the problems of low kharif
yields and has achieved moderate success in the limited areas of concentrated
effort. DAFP strategy for r4ce production in kharif published as "a guide-
line to extension", covers all aspects necessary to maximize production. The
package is comprehensive and complex and is carried out through a series of
supervised State demonstrations. While these trials have been valuable in
demonstrating that there is a great potential for increasing paddy yields up
to 3.5 tons/ha, the technology is impractical for wide acceptance, being far
beyond the farmers' financial resources and present technical capability.
Under the project, therefore, the approach would be modified by gradually
introducing simple improved cultural practices (para 21) which, with little
financial outlay, would give significant improvements in yields. This would
act as a catalyst to encourage farmers subsequently to change to short-term
HIYV and the use of nitrogen, which would follow the introduction of improved
cultural practices.
2.        A sequence for the introduction of improved practices has been
drawn up for paddy, ragi, wheat, maize, groundnuts and pulses. Concentra-
tion for all crops would be first on land preparation, increasing plant pop-
ulations through the introduction of the improved plow, high germination
capacity dressed seed of existing varieties, improved nursery techniques
and the introduction of line seeding or transplanting to permit efficient
weeding. Also some plant protection measures would be introduced. Begin-
ning with the existing practices, termed 0, progressively complex packages
of practices, termed A, B and C are presented in Appendix 1, for the major
crops.
Paddy
3.        Experience elsewhere has shown that the impact of these cultural
improvements alone on paddy production can increase yields by 30%, but in
Orissa the farming standards of the cultivators at present are such that
increases in yield of only 15-20% are projected. For the next stage, com-
prising the introduction of sub-optimal doses of fertilizer on local vari-
eties, increases of about 500 kg paddy/ha can be expected, based on nitrogen
response. The package of practices proposed in kharif includes a phased
increase in fertilizer from 30 to 60 kg/ha. No mention has been made of
phosphate or potash application to paddy, because crop responses are not



ANNEX 2
Page 2
yet known; but work on this would be a priority of the adaptive research
program (Annex 4) and recommendations would be introduced if responses proved
economic.
Ragi (Eleusine corocana)
4.        Ragi, a grain millet, due to its ability to adapt to shallow soils
and its short growing season, is currently being introduced in the upper
upland areas which are unsuited to paddy. The initial package of cultural
practices would be followed by the introduction of available improved early
maturing varieties. Fertilizer would be limited to 20 kg N/ha.
Pulses
5.        In addition to better cultivation of pulses grown on residual mois-
ture, quick improvements can also be expected by the introduction of already
tested, higher yield potential, mosaic tolerant varieties. But further
significant yield increases will only be achieved through improvements in
the moisture status of the crop by earlier planting, which can only follow
the introduction of shorter maturing paddy varieties. Improved varieties of
pigeon peas can be introduced in areas considered suitable and they can be
intercropped wih the millets.
Projected Uptake
6.        Yield assumptions for the different crops under the various stages
of practice uptake are presented in Annex 2, Table 1.
7.        The rate at which farmers adopt these practices would determine the
rate of increase in production. Table 2 presents a projection of the percen-
tage of farm area, after Year 4 and Year 8, which is expected to be under each
of the stages of practices for the various crops. Based on these, the mean
yields of foodgrains and oilseeds are conservatively expected to rise from the
present 0.8 tons/ha to 0.9 tons/ha in Year 4 and to 1.1 tons/ha in Year 8.
8.        Based on the projections (which cover paddy, wheat, maize, ragi,
pulses, groundnuts) the expected percentages of farmers who would adopt dif-
ferent packages of practices for paddy are:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Kharif paddy (Rainfed)          Package   1970/80   1983/84
No change                        0         57         28
Cultural practices only          A         20         25
Plus some fertilizer             B         20         35
More advanced                    C          3         12
100        100
Rabi paddy (Irrigated)
No change (HYV + fertilizer)  0            53         20
Cultural practices               A         25         33
Plus water control +
more phosphate                 B         15         30
More advanced                    C          7         17
1 00       100
Kharif paddy (Irrigated)
No change                        0         38         20
Cultural practices               A         30         20
Increased nitrogen               B         25         40
More advanced                    C          7         20
100        100
Attachments:
Appendix 1. Proposed Package of Practices
Table 1.      Yield Assumptions under Package of Practices
Table 2.      Projected Uptake of Package of Practices
October 28, 1976



AilEX 2
Appendix 1
INDIA                               page 1
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Practices
Proposed Packages of Practices
RAINFED
Klf paddy
Present       .. Local Var no fertiliser
A             .. Local Var +  cultural practices
B.            .. A+20 Kgs. N
C (i)         .. Hyv - cultural practices+3OKgs. N
(ii)        .. Hyv + cultural practices + 60 Kgs. N
Kharif Maize
Present       .. Local Var no fertiliser
A              .. Local Var+cultural practices
B             .. A+30 Kgs. N
C (i)         .. Composite Var+cultural practices +40 Kgs. N
(ii)        .. Composite Var+cultural practices +60
(iii)       ..  Composite Var+cultural practices+100
Kharif Ragi
Present       .. Local Var no fertiliser
A             .. Local Var+cultural practices
B             .. A+20 Kgs. N.
C-l          .. Improved Var + cultural practices +30 Kgs. N
Rabi Pulses
Present       .. Local Var no fertiliser
A             .. Local Var +  cultural practices
B             .. Local Var + cultural practices + 20 Kgs. P, 0).
IRRIGATED
Kharif Paddy
Present       .. Local Var +  10 Kgs. N
A             .. Local Var + 0 Kg. N +Cultural practices
B             .. A+30 Kgs. N
C (i)         .. HYV+cultural practices + 30 Kgs. N
C (ii)        .. HYV + cultural practices + 60 Kgs. N + 20 Kgs. Ps 0,



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
page 2
Rabi Paddy
Present           HYV. + 50 Kgs. N + 10 Kgs. P2 05
A             .. HYV. +50 Kgs. N +10 Kgs. P3 Os +cultural practices
B                 Hyv. +cultural practices +water control +50 Kgs. N +20 Kg. P, Os
C (i)             B+60 Kgs. N +30 Kgs. P2 0
C (ii)        .. B+90 Kgs. N + 40 Kgs. P2 s
C(iii)              +120 Kgs. N + 50 Kgs. P2 0.-
Rabi Wheat
Pregent           HYV. + 40 Kgr. N +20 Kgs. P2r 
A                 HVY. +40 Kgs. N +20 Kgs. P2 5 +cultural practices
B                 A+water control
C(i)             B+60 Kgs. N + 30 P2 0
(ii)        .. +80 Kgs. N + 40 P2 05
Rabi Groundnuts
Present       ..  Local Var + 10 Kgs. N + 10 Kgs. P2 05
A                 Present +  cultural practices
B                 A + 20 Kgs. N + 20 Kgs. P2 0s + Lime
C (i)             A+20 Kgs. N + 40 Kgs. P2 6 + Lime
Rabi Pulses
Present           Local Var no fertiliser
A             .. Local Var + culturial practices
B                Improved Var + cultural practices + 20 Kgs. P, 0,
July 22, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Practices
Yield Assurptions under Packages of Practices (tons/ha)
crop                                             Stages of Practice Packages
0       A          B         C (i)      C (ii)       C (iii)
(present)
RAINPED
KQharif
Paddy                     .1.         2        145         1-9        2-3         3 0
Maize                     ..        07          10         1-3         1-7        2-1         2'5
Ragi                      ..        09          1-3        1-8        2-0
Rabi
Pulses                    0. 04                 05         07
IRRIGATED
With Water Control
Kbarif
Paddy                     ..        15         2-0         2 5        3 0         3 S
Rabi
Paddy                               2-0         2-3        32         4 0         4 5         5 0
Wheat                               1-6        i'8        2-3         26         30
Groundnuts                ..          2         1-4        1-8        2-1
Pulses                    ..        05         06          0-8       .          ..           _
Without Water Control
Kharif
Paddy                 ..              5         20         2-2        2'S         3'0
Rabi
Paddy                     ..         20         2-3                    2 5        3'0         3-5
Wheat                               1 16        18       ..           22          2-5
July 22, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Practices
Projected Uptake of Packages of Practices
1979-80                                               1983-84
0       A       B       C(i)   C(ii)   C(iii)      0      A       B       C(i)    C(ii)   C(iii)
RAINFED                                                  percent-percent-
Kharif
Paddy                57      20      20       3                         28      25      35       10       2
Maize                35      20      30      10       5                 20      10      17      30       20       3
Ragi                 40      20       35       5                        20      15       50      15
Rabi
Pulses              75      20        5                                45       40      15
RRIGATED
Kharif
Paddy                38      30      25        5       2                20      20      40       15       5
IRRIGATED
Rabi
Paddy                53      25      15       5        2                20      33      30       10       5       2
Wheat                53      25       15      5       2                 20      33      30       10      5        2
Groundnuts           55      20      20       5                         20      40      30       10
Pulses               70      20      10                                 35      40      25
July 22, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
A. Introduction
1.        The development of appropriate crop and farm technology and an
effective system for its delivery are both essential if Orissa's agricultural
production is to be substantially increased within the next few years. Some
technology for increasing production is already available, and some farmers
have adopted it. Although the institutions carrying out research and provid-
ing agricultural extension are contributing to production, the potential for
improvement is great. However, in order to realize this potential, they
must be reorganized, their staff must be trained, their efforts intensified
and new methods of work employed. Improved agricultural extension and provi-
sion of supportive research are thus crucial components of this project
(for research, see Annex 4).
B. Background
Rural Administration
2.        At present, agricultural extension work forms an integral part
of the administrative system of the Government of Orissa (GOO). The State
of Orissa is divided into 13 Revenue Districts, each headed by a Collector
who is usually from the Indian Administrative Service and is the highest dis-
trict level administrative officer. He also heads a District Development
Board through which the development plans of all GOO departments are funneled
and coordinated. The local rural administrative unit is the Development
Block, of which there are 314 in Orissa, 20 to 30 in each district. Each
Block covers 100-200 villages and is administered by a Block Development
Officer (BDO). He is in the Community Development and Social Welfare Depart-
ment, but is responsible directly to the Collector. With the BDO, either
directly under him or on secondment, is a staff of technical people from the
various GOO Ministries and Departments, including Agriculture. The funding,
execution and supervision of rural development programs is through the BDO.
3.        Parallel to the Government administration, there is an elected local
government system. Each village elects a representative (Ward Member) to
a local committee (Panchayat) which incorporates about 8-10 villages. The
15-20 Sarpanch (elected chairmen of these committees) within the Block,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
together form an executive body or rural district council, the Panchayat
Samiti. The BDO is a member and the secretary of the Panchayat Samiti.
All budget sums allocated to the Block are placed in a fund which belongs
to the Panchayat Samiti, and is operated by the BDO. The BDO (and all other
GOO staff at the Block) are, in a sense, controlled by the Panchayat Samiti,
which has an important say in how budgets are to be spent. At the same
time, since there is no higher local government body at the district level,
the BDO, backed by the Collector, has strong authority. Yet this system
enables and ensures active local participation in development work.
C. The Recent Agricultural Extension System
4.        Agricultural extension responsibilities at the farmers' level are
divided between the District Administration, the Department of Community
Development and Social Welfare (CD & SW) and the Department of Agriculture
and Cooperatives (Table 1). Most Village Level Workers (VLW), while receiv-
ing technical guidance from the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
(DAFP), are administratively responsible to the Panchayat Samiti and to the
BDO; most of them are CD & SW employees, some DAFP employees seconded to the
Block. Under the Block Development Program in operation for the past 20 years,
each of the State's 314 Blocks had 10 VLW from CD & SW; more recently, 6 addi-
tional VLW have been seconded to many of the Blocks by DAFP. Similarly, each
Block has one or two Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) from CD & SW, with
one other seconded from DAFP. On technical matters they report to and receive
support from DAFP, but they are administratively responsible to and receive
pay from the BDO. They guide and supervise the work of the VLW in agricul-
ture, yet have no administrative control over them.
5.        Thus agricultural extension at the local level is in the hands of
several different bodies. Most VLW are multi-purpose workers, unable to
concentrate on production, while some work under various schemes on a single
crop only. Most VLW and AEO have two if not three masters. Few formal or
informal relationships exist between the agricultural professionals of DAFP
and those of the Orissa University for Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). The
lines of command, supervision, and technology flow are complex and diffuse
(see Figure 2), and many staff, however capable and competent, cannot be fully
effective, resulting in few and diluted farm level contacts and activities,
with low impact.
6.        Compounding these difficulties, which are primarily organizational,
are difficulties inherent in Orissa and its general state of development:
large tracts of hilly terrain, sparsely inhabited mainly by primitive tri-
bal people; generally adequate but unstable rainfall which results in both
drought and flood; poorly developed irrigation (often poorly maintained,
where it is developed); large areas of unproductive soil; low level of train-
ing; poor transportation; and finally, lack of incentives and difficult liv-
ing and working conditions for a majority of the staff. All considered, the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
achievements of Orissa in agriculture (Annex 1) are to be appreciated, and
underscore the potential that can be realized when many of the constraints
will have been removed with the help of this project.
7.        Although intended to spend 80% of their working time on agricultural
extension, VLW in fact spend probably as little as 25%, and this usually on
agricultural work which is of a distributive or reporting nature, so that
few farmers receive extension advice in their fields. The remainder of the
VLW's time is taken up by a large variety of duties such as public health,
family planning, small savings, school affairs, elections, and famine re-
lief. It is the local ward members who direct the VLW to particular fami-
lies in the village, and the priorities are probably not often based on
problems of agricultural production. The initial training of most VLW, a
two-year course in a Community Development training center, and that of the
AEO who were recruited from colleges of agriculture, was probably good and
sufficient. But little in-service training has been given them since.
8.        In an attempt to remedy the situation, various types of special
schemes have been established by DAFP, usually at Government of India ini-
tiative, in which additional AEO and VLW and less trained workers called
Field Man Demonstrators were recruited and employed for particular crops and
in specific areas. Intensive Rice Cultivation, Cotton and Sugarcane, the
Intensive Agricultural District Program (IADP) and the Drought Prone Area
Program (DPAP) are examples. Other departments also have programs which
closely touch upon agriculture, such as the Small Farmers Development Agency
(SFDA) and the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP).
9.        Responsibility for all DAFP programs in the district and for AEO
technical backing lies with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO). The
State is divided into 30 agricultural districts, each headed by a DAO. Al-
though he should be directing the agricultural production program, and is
active in setting the yearly production targets, he has little staff under
his control. The DAO is also in charge of the seed production and distribu-
tion programs (each has several small seed farms) and has some responsibility
for, though little control over fertilizer distribution.
10.       From the DAO upwards, the hierarchy is clearer:  the 30 DAO are each
responsible to one of 6 Range Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA). Each DDA
is supported by three Subject Matter Specialists in agronomy, plant protection
and soils. The ranges and districts do not coincide with the administrative
boundaries as there are two to three Revenue Districts in each range, and each
of the 13 Revenue Districts contains 2-3 agricultural districts. The DDA are
directly responsible to the senior agricultural technical officer of the
department, namely the Director of Agriculture and Food Production. He
reports to his administrative seniors, the Secretary for Agriculture and
Cooperatives and the Agricultural Production Commissioner, under the Minister
of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The agricultural headquarters is supported
by 8 Joint Directors (JDA) and 10 DDA each acting as a specialist in a narrow
discipline and reporting directly to the Director, DAFP. Most of these JDA
and DDA have their own small unit subordinate staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       The GOO, having analyzed the situation, and having been made aware
of achievements in production obtained under World Bank supported projects
in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh by changing extension along lines set by Mr.
D. Benor, World Bank consultant, asked that revitalization of its agricultural
extension system be included as part of the Agricultural Intensification
Project for World Bank financing.
D. The New Agricultural Extension System
12.       For the project, the agricultural extension service would be revi-
talized under a new system now to be introduced State-wide. A well-trained,
highly motivated, and technically competent single organization would be
created, making optimal use of existing staff and with very few additions.
The organization would be given the means to reach the majority of Orissa's
farmers with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing
production and income. The available manpower, except for trained subject
matter specialists, is sufficient and of excellent potential to achieve re-
sults, provided there is redeployment, a concentration on extension per se,
and a continuing and frequent training element. The new system would take
over all agricultural extension work and all "special schemes" of extension
would be incorporated.
13.       The new extension system would be spread over the entire State be-
cause, even though it may encounter initial difficulties, farmers would
benefit more from early partial coverage than by. waiting for full coverage
until all staff are fully retrained and qualified. Orissa would be the
first Indian State to adopt the new system statewide, without previous
trial; but GOO prefers not to have different systems operating concurrently
and is confident that the proposed system is correct and that the change-
over can be swiftly made.
14.       In agricultural extension, the project would provide for:
(a) Reorganization of the entire extension staff in a single
line of command under DAFP.
(b) An increase in the number of Ranges from 6 to 13, and with
it the number of professional supervisors and Subject Matter
Specialists.
(c) A method of field and village visits which ensures regular
coverage of most farms.
(d) Effective and continuous applied in-service training.
(e) Strengthening of VLW pre-service training to ensure a continu-
ing supply of well-trained workers.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(f) Facilities and equipment for improved training and extension.
(g) Staff and facilities for field trials and demonstrations.
(h) Vehicles and travel allowances for greater mobility.
(i) Housing for field staff.
(j) Viable extension-research-farmer coordination.
Reorganization in a Single Line of Command
15.       Almost all VLW would remain in their present locations, but 70%
(about 2,500 out of 3,500) would be transferred to DAFP from CD & SW control,
leaving 3-4 VLW per Block with the BDO to cover all non-agricultural work.
Together with all 3,100 VLW level workers on DAFP special schemes, including
Field Demonstrators, 5,600 VLW, or equivalent, would be made available for
redeployment to full-time agricultural extension work. With 3.4 M active
farm families in Orissa, there would thus be, on average, one VLW for every
600 farm families.
16.       One AEO would supervise eight VLW.  The 700 AEO thus required would
be drawn from the 650 employed in the Blocks (see para 4) and more than 100
already in DAFP. The AEO would be directly responsible to the DAO who, in
turn, is responsible to the Range DDA.
17.       This organizational structure would enable a rational selection
of objectives and goals to be made, concentrating efforts on high priority
areas and allocating human, physical and financial resources accordingly.
All special schemes and programs would be incorporated within the one system.
Flow of technology information would be streamlined.
Strengthening of Staff
18.       Because of the added supervisory load and work responsibilities in
DAFP, additional managerial and supervisory staff would needed. A senior
staff member would be appointed at DAFP headquarters as Additional Director
of Agriculture, Extension (ADA Extension) to head the Extension Service. He
would be principally responsible for the reorganization. The number of agri-
cultural ranges would be increased from 6 to 13, to coincide approximately
with the 13 existing revenue districts. This would improve coordination with
other aspects of rural development. The additional 7 ranges would need to be
staffed, each to be headed by a Deputy Director of Agriculture who would be
transferred from existing duties. The thirty District Agricultural Officers
(DAO) (see para 9), in turn, would need further support if enough supervision
and guidance are to be given to AEO. Sixty Additional District Agricultural
Officers (ADAO) would therefore be posted, averaging two to a district, and
each would closely supervise and guide 8-10 AEO in the field, the DAO directly
supervising 4-6 AEO.



ANNEX
Page 6
19.       A viable field extension program needs strong technical support by
Subject Matter Specialists. At present, there are only three at each of
the six ranges (see para 10) and many more would be needed under the proposed
system. Since they are not readily available in all fields and in sufficient
numbers, their posting would be phased as they became available. Each range
would have, by the end of Year 3, one SMS in each of these fields: agronomy;
plant protection; farm machinery; water management; and farm management.
Staffing would thus be approximately (depending on location):
Range        District        Block
DDA             13             -              -
DAO              -             30             -
ADAO             -              60            -
SMS            65              90 /a
AEO              -            700
VLW              -             -             5600
TO              13                            -
/a   from Year 3
20.       SMS in agronomy, plant protection and farm machinery are available,
but in water management and farm management, though there is excellent poten-
tial, not enough have been trained to the standard required. Positive action
will be needed (starting at the Extension Training Institutes - see Annex 12)
to select and train specialists in these subjects. Plans should also be made
to increase the number of SMS from Year 3 so that they can be made available
at the agricultural district level, with one SMS in each discipline in each
district as extension, and the demand for its services, develops.
21.       The search for suitable SMS should already have begun and, from the
start of the project, suitable AEO and OUAT graduates would be selected to be
trained up in SMS positions. In the meantime, the training and information
officer (TO), one posted permanently to each range, would assist a team of
five SMS to support and train a field staff of about 54 AEO and 430 VLW per
range (on average, though varying according to farm population per range and
other factors). They would work closely with the researchers, particularly
through the 13 adaptive research farms (see Annex 4).
22.       Figure 1 illustrates the proposed agricultural extension organiza-
tion and staffing.
The New Extension Methodology
23.       Under the new agricultural extension system, an intensive farm visit
program would be introduced. The farming areas and the estimated 3.4 M farm
families of Orissa would be divided into 5,600 units of 400-800 families each,
to which VLW would be allocated. Each unit, in turn, would be divided into 8
more or less equal groups of 50-100 farm families each. Each of these groups



ANNEX 3
Page 7
would be visited by its VLW, on a fixed day of the week, once every two weeks.
Thus the VLW would cover 4 groups in one week and 4 groups the next. The day
and location of visits for each VLW would be well publicized and documented
both among farmers and in the Block and district offices. The VLW would
spend the full day with the scheduled farmers' group; during the morning
hours he would visit the farmers in their fields and, in the afternoon,
hold an open meeting in the village, at a predetermined hour and location
to be proposed by the group.
24.       It is not possible, nor effective, to attempt to reach all farmers
in direct extension work in the field. Many are part-time farmers, others
not accustomed to contacts with outside agencies, and yet others are best
influenced by neighbors or relatives. Under the guidance of their superiors
and in consultation with the Panchayat and the farmers themselves, therefore,
the VLW would select 10 contact farmers from each group. Contact farmers
could be from all levels of village society, including sharecroppers, and
would be selected for their potential influence and willingness to collab-
orate with extension in following recommendations. Changes in contact
farmers could be made, especially between seasons, if shown to be ineffec-
tive or if they so desired. The VLW, in his field visits, would make spe-
cial efforts to reach at least all the contact farmers' fields, and they,
in turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and attending the
afternoon meetings. Their fields may be used as demonstration plots and
for carrying out some field trials. They would have priority in farmer-
training programs.
25.       With 700 AEO, each would supervise 6-10 VLW and, at least once every
two weeks, would participate in part of each VLW program of visits to farm-
ers, following such a pattern as would enable him to reach every farmers'
group at least twice each season. He would check that the VLW visits and
meetings were being carried out on schedule and would assist both VLW and
farmers in technical matters. He would also assist the VLW in carrying out
demonstrations and simple trials. This close ongoing relationship between
AEO and VLW should relieve the latter of the need for any formal reporting.
He is expected, however, to carefully conduct a diary record to be scruti-
nized and signed by any supervising superior visiting him.
26.       The AEO's supervisors up to the highest level, having access to
the VLW and AEO visits schedules, would be able quickly and easily, by random
check, to find out whether visits are being made as planned, not only by
making surprise visits to the areas in which VLW and AEO are scheduled on
particular days, but also by questioning farmers about the visit days in
their villages, the names of the VLW and AEO, the messages learned, etc.
Experience elsewhere in India has shown that, once farmers become aware of
the fixed visit schedule, they themselves become effective monitors by their
complaints if visits are not maintained regularly and in a satisfactory
manner.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
full day every two weeks, learning in a practical and applied manner, the
relevant messages which are to be delivered to the farmers in their next
round of visits. The advice given must be such that can be immediately used
by them.
28.       One two-weekly VLW training session would be given at the Block
level, by the AEO to their 8-25 VLW as a group. This training would be
completely practice oriented, with time devoted to actually carrying out
field operations, such as sowing and spraying. VLW would be free to raise
and discuss any problems they had encountered during the preceding field
visits.
29.       The second two-weekly training session would be organized and led
by the ADAO or DAO with his 8-10 AEO and all his VLW (48-80). SMS from the
range office would participate in this session. The Training Officer would
organize the plan for the entire range, in which approximately 7-8 such train-
ing sessions would be held every four weeks (90 in all 13 ranges). These
sessions should, if possible, be held at the range adaptive research farm.
30.       The training of the AEO, ADAO and DAO would be held once every four
weeks at range level, preferably for two days. The Training Officer and
SMS, together with researchers from OUAT, would provide the training. It
is at these sessions that the details for all the ongoing training and pro-
grams of work for the next four weeks are to be learned and carefully
planned. For this purpose, the staff of each district would work separately
during part of the second day and come up with district-wise plans. Repre-
sentatives of other related organizations would be invited to participate
in these sessions to ensure coordination of activities.
31.       Twice a year, once before each crop season, the entiie staff of each
district would gather for a four-day course to be given by OUAT and range
staff. It is in this course that more basic and theoretical knowledge would
be taught, to give the field workers an overall view of the major crops and
innovations which would be recommended in the coming season. These would be
based upon the previous year's results which would be presented and analyzed.
Each range would hold 2-4 such courses every season, one per district.
32.       In addition to these various training activities, special short
courses, for specific subjects, would be prepared for SMS, DAO and ADAO,
and AEO as needed, to be decided upon by the ADA Extension and his senior
staff.
33.       The following table summarizes the ongoing in-service training
proposed:



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Level
at which                                          No.
held                                            per
The Activity    and No.  Frequency  Duration  Participants  Activity  Trainers
Pre-season     District                         All staff                 JDA, SMS,
30       2 x year   4 days   of district       200      OUAT
Monthly
Preparation    Range       1 x 4                Field super-      60      SMS,
13        weeks      2 days   visory staff              OUAT
AEO, ADAO, DAO
Ongoing        Block
I           10/
district               1 day     VLW             8-20    AEO
Ongoing        ADAO
II          level 2-4/                                                DAO, ADAO,
district      "        1 day     VLW              64      AEO, SMS
Special        State                            Senior tech-             OUAT,
Courses        as needed  1 x year  3-6 days  nical staff    20-30    out of
state
VLW would be trained:              - twice a year, a pre-season course at
district for 4 days
- once in 4 weeks at the Block
for 1 day, by AEO
- once in 4 weeks at below-district
level for 1 day by ADAO, SMS and AEO
AEO would be trained:               - twice a year pre-season as above
- once in 4 weeks at range for 2 days
to prepare for coming month
District and range staff would
be trained:                      - twice a year in pre-season as above
- once in 4 weeks for 2 days with AEO as
above
- in special courses to be held once a
year
34.       In addition to participation in special courses, which would be
planned for the senior technical staff, the SMS would maintain close, on-
going relationships with researchers at the regional stations and at the
range adaptive research farms, where they would also participate actively
in conducting field trials. This link is extremely important.



INNE' -
Page 10
35.       The Training Officer would be responsible for advance planning and
monitoring of all training sessions in his range, for obtaining relevant
training publications from the Information Unit at Headquarters, and for
obtaining or producing leaflets which summarize the subject matter and im-
pact points of each session. He would ensure that these materials were
ready in good time and distributed to AEO and VLW at each training session.
The multiplicity of training activities in the range, district and Block
requires careful and accurate pre-planning, well in advance, and ensuring
that the equipment and facilities are available and prepared in time.
36.       Provision is made in the project for 20 man-months a year of train-
ing outside Orissa, especially to enable SMS to specialize in particular
fields best developed in other Indian States. Training Officers and DAO
may also visit other States to learn new methods. Several fellowships for
training abroad would be provided.
37.       With high emphasis placed on the timely delivery of information of
immediate value to the farmer, the SMS have a major role in the whole train-
ing system proposed. Situated at the range offices and aided by OUAT re-
searchers (mainly those of the regional stations and range experimental
farms), the SMS teams would have a heavy training load. Each team would be
expected to participate in 7-9 one-day VLW training sessions conducted by
the DAO/ADAO, in addition to a 2-day training session for AEO and others at
the range, together about 10 days during a 4-week period. In the two pre-
season periods, with 2-4 four-day courses in each range, the SMS would be
working only in training. This heavy load would remain until additional SMS
begin to be posted in the districts in the third year of the project, when
they would gradually assume a growing share of the training responsibilities,
aided by new Training Officers.
38.       This makes it all the more important that the training program be
well planned and executed, and that the DDA gives his Training Officer all
the support he needs. It must also be coordinated closely with the VLW
visit program. The two-weekly training sessions should be held, for each
unit, on a regular day of the week, e.g., in a given district, Friday for
one ADAO, Saturday for the second. Also, the two-weekly sessions would be
held one week in one district, the next week in another, alternating. The
VLW visit days have to be planned accordingly, four per week.
Strengthening Basic Training
39.       In addition to the intensification of the ongoing training, which
would play a vital role in the new extension methodology and organization,
much strengthening of the programs and facilities for pre-service and basic
in-service upgrading training is needed. Also, there is room for the up-
grading of training for women extension workers (gram sevikas), not included
otherwise in the extension reorganization. These training components are
presented in Table 2 and a separate annex (Annex 12).



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Equipment and Facilities Supporting Extension Work and Training
40        Equipment and operating costs would be provided for publications,
preparation of audio-visual aids, duplicating machines and photographic
services needed for effective extension work with the farmers. Initially
district offices would act as the ranges, subsequently the district offices
would be equipped beginning from year three. Materials and equipment such as
flip charts and blackboards, needed by AEO and VLW in their ongoing training
and extension work, would also be provided.
41.       Since heavy emphasis is to be placed on the ongoing training of all
field staff, funds would be provided for incremental operating costs in-
volved, such as preparation of materials and aids for the training sessions,
renting space, honoraria for outside lecturers and transporting extension
workers on field visits. The costs for the supporting equipment and facili-
ties are presented in Annex 16.
Demonstrations and Field Trials
42.       The demonstration method in India's extension work has been widely
used, with varying results. It is therefore proposed not to place special
emphasis on a demonstration program, but rather to utilize the demonstra-
tion effect in fields of contact farmers, where new practices would be em-
ployed, and in simple field trials which would be carried out on both adap-
tive research farms and farmers' fields. These would form an ongoing part
of the work of every VLW and AEO. Supporting materials and funds for signs,
markings, group tours, etc. would be provided.
43.       A wide series of simple field trials would be carried out as one in-
tegrated program, both on the 13 adaptive research farms and on selected
farmers' fields. Thirteen of 85 existing DAFP seed farms, one for each range,
would be turned into adaptive research farms of about 20 ha each. A research
officer would be seconded by OUAT to head each of the farms, and to guide and
supervise the entire field trial program in the range. He would be respon-
sible directly to the range DDA and, working closely with the SMS and other
technical field staff, would form the all important link between research
and extension. Recommendations would be tried out on a large enough scale
before being delivered to the farmers to ensure their validity under local
conditions and, at the same time, extension workers would receive practical
training and gain confidence in their recommendations through active partici-
pation in field trial work. The researchers from the central and regional
OUAT research stations, through work with the range adaptive research farms
and field trials, would be pulled into closer contact with farmer's actual
problems and with the extension people.
44.       The present managerial and working staff of each farm would be
sufficient. The project would provide for improvement of the farm and its
facilities--irrigation, drainage, machinery, buildings and equipment (for
details, see Annex 4 on research).



ANNEX 3
Page 12
Transportation and Mobility
45.       A key feature of the new extension methodology and its organization
is the requirement that the entire staff spend most of their time in the
field. VLW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth day for
field trials, demonstrations and special requests each week. AEO would be
four days a week with VLW. SMS would be expected to devote two days to field
visits and two days to field trials each week. ADAO and DAO would be at
least three days a week in the field. Transportation is thus crucial to
the success of the program, and is a serious constraint to extension today.
The project would provide for:
11 - cars
83 - 4-wheel drive diesel light vehicles
13 - pickups diesel
13 - minibus diesel
700 - loans for motorcycles
2800 - loans for bicycles
Since similar vehicles are in operation in Orissa and in DAFP, their main-
tenance should not pose a serious problem. Loans for motorcycles, however,
should be increased and conditions changed in order to make it attractive
for AEO to purchase them. AEO mobility must be assured. The motor vehicles
are incremental to the existing, or replace such vehicles as should be (but
without the project probably would not be) taken out of service. About
one-half the VLW own bicycles already.
46.       Incremental vehicle operating and maintenance costs for the project
period (5 years) are provided for, based on 25,000 km/year. A motorcycle
allowance would be given to AEO based on 10,000 km/year. Basic travel allow-
ance for incremental staff is provided for. However, it is felt that greatly
increased demands would be made of the entire staff, in terms of time and
distances of travel and length of stay away from home, justifying an additional
travel allowance to all staff. This show of concern and appreciation for
hardship and effort to be made by the staff, otherwise relatively lowly paid,
would have important motivational and incentive effects and would contribute
to the effectiveness of the extension service (Annex 16).
Offices and Residence
47.       Efficient management and administration of as vast and widespread
organization as the extension service requires reasonable office quarters and
facilities. Twenty-four of 30 districts have modest offices, sufficient
for the project period. Only three ranges have office buildings of their
own. The project would provide modest buildings, office furniture and
equipment needed to cover the entire State.
48.       Housing for field staff should be located where they do their work.
Many of VLW and AEO now occupy houses at Block headquarters. However, some
will have to vacate them, and for additional staff to be posted in most



ANNEX 3
Page 13
rural areas there is no accommodation available for rent. It is proposed,
therefore, to provide housing for 35% of VLW and AEO as a minimum. In addi-
tion, housing would have to be provided for new DDA, ADAO and SMS. In homes
of AEO and VLW, provision for office space and equipment would be made.
For costs, see Annex 16.
Coordination, Program Planning and Evaluation
49.       Under the project, both agricultural extension and agricultural re-
search would be strengthened, the interdependence between the two increased,
and their commitment to the farming community made greater. There is need
for a systematic approach for the development, delivery and ultimate use of
effective and beneficial technology. It is proposed that a program planning
process take place twice each year, before the kharif and before the rabi
seasons.
50.       The existing top level Extension and Research Policy Advisory Panel
would convene twice each season: the first meeting would take place 2-1/2 to
3 months before the start of the season, when the general results of the for-
mer season would be already known. The purpose of this meeting would be to
come out with broad guidelines of agricultural production policy for the next
season. The second meeting, to be held 1 to 1-1/2 months before the start
of the season, would evaluate, amend and approve the detailed plans on the
basis of extension district and range discussions, and of research stations
and OUAT talks (para 55). The Advisory Panel would be chaired by the APC,
and members would be Secretary, Agriculture and Cooperation; Commissioner
Command Area Development; Director, CRRI; Vice-Chancellor, OUAT; Director,
DAFP; the Officer on Special Duty, Agriculture (who heads the Project Plan-
ning); the Dean of Research Unit, OUAT; the ADA Extension, and top level
representatives of input agencies and the cooperative movement.
51.       After the first seasonal panel meeting guidelines would be conveyed
to each of the two organizations--OUAT and the Extension Service of DAFP--by
their respective representatives, starting in both organizations an intensive
process of summarizing results and developing recommendations and plans at the
different levels, in light of the policy guidelines. The process for research
is described in Annex 4.
52.       The Director of DAFP and the ADA Extension would convene all the
JDA, DDA and DAO in Bhubaneswar for one day, inviting the APC to present the
policy guidelines. These would be discussed as to their relevance, in broad
terms, to the various ranges, districts and agricultural disciplines. The
schedule for district and range meetings would be drawn.
53.       Following this meeting, each DAO helped by his ADAO, would hold meet-
ings in the various Blocks with the AEO, VLW, BDO and members of the Panchayat
Samiti to develop, based on last season's experiences, a plan and recommen-
dations for the coming season. This round of meetings should take no more
than three weeks, at the end of which a district-level summary meeting would



ANNEX 3
Page 14
be held with the DDA, DAO, ADAO, SMS, 2-3 AEO, 2-3 Sarpanch (para 3) and BDO,
and the researcher of the adaptive research farm. Specific recommendations
for crops, and practices would be spelled out.
54.       The ADA Extension would be responsible for this planning process.
When the districts would have completed their plans, he would convene four
meetings, one at each of the applied research stations. DDA, DAO, SMS, TO
and range researchers from 3-4 ranges of the agro-climatic zone represented
by the station would participate, various JDA from headquarters, and the
Research Director and researchers from OUAT. They would form work groups
for the major crops and develop extension and adaptive research recommenda-
tions.
55.       Armed with the plans from the four regions, based on statewide work,
the ADA Extension and the Director of Research would present to the recon-
vened Extension and Research Advisory Panel, their recommendations which,
after discussion and amendments, would be approved for action, completing
the cycle started 1-1/2 months earlier.
56.       Each range and each adaptive research farm would then finalize its
seasonal plans, and translate them into training to be transferred at the
4-day pre-seasonal sessions to the entire district staff.
57.       The process described appears at first to be complex.  During the
first year of the project, the planning process would go down to the dis-
trict level only, where only some representatives from the Blocks would
attend. As staff is recruited and trained, the local planning capability
would increase. The importance of this element of the project cannot be
overemphasized, for the key to the success of the project is a technically
competent and highly motivated staff. The planning process is the best way
to arrive at both technically sound recommendations and plans, and a deeply
involved staff to carry them out. The early communication of information
needed by the supporting services is also assured, as is the contribution
of the farmers' experience through their representatives. The BDO would
be in an excellent position to contribute his important coordinative role.
Lastly, adaptive research results would feed into the system, and field
trial plans for the coming season would develop from a joint research-
extension effort.
58.    The Advisory Panel would also serve as an evaluating body.  It would
receive the analysis of field-crop cuttings, research results and the survey
results of the Farm Management Units, and would decide on any special evalu-
ative studies that need be done. A small committee headed by the Officer on
Special Duty, Agriculture, would prepare the evaluation materials and pro-
posals for the Panel. Members would be statistician, research (see Annex 4);
statistician, DAFP; Head, Farm Management Unit; and evaluation specialist,
Extension Education Department, OUAT.
Attachments:
Figure 1. Proposed Organization of Agricultural Extension
2. Present Organization of Agricultural Extension
October 28, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
!ANIO COOPERATIVECS
A   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
|COMMISSIONERl
PPLCY PPLANNING ANn  .                                                      ADVISORY o
COOFRINATIOr UNIT                                .IPANEL|
Toa   StC RETADRPY OF                              OF
13 DDA                SPE~~~~AR CIALITSUREGICLUERAG)                       -COLCO
3D I       RECTOR OF       AGRICULTURE                L F
0  AND FOOD PROLTI 3_             OF ILC R  (EXTENSION)
Jo JONT DIRECTOR OF   l    l   JOINT DIRECTOR OF   |      JOINT DIRECTOFR OFr |                   OTHAR                         DIT
AGRICULTURE                  AGRICULTURA AGRICULCLUA DIRECTORS
AlFlICU   FIE  ULTURE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFIE
WWIan P--lcti-n                   .... IHr clue           CoS
13ta DDAe |                       PEC.ALISTS (s5JR   E       ANL             GE)     - -                                     COLLECTOR
65 SpeI,61lss       
60 ADAO                         E 'SITX3T O ESION OICFFRALNLA,
90 SMS                                                                                                                                   _
700 AEO|AGCUTRLOFCR|    '                                                                                                 + 
- - - -                                                                              SAMITI
5600 VLW
3                    W ORKR VA   LEVEL    -   - - - - - - - - - -                  PANCHAYAT
3.4M Farmerstt
L         A         t~~~F4AoRM3EoRS I
World BEak- 16385



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
MINISTER OF                                                         MINISTER OF
AGRICULTURE                                                         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                    MNSR
COOPERATIVES                                                        AND SOCIAL WELFARE
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE                                                DEPARTMENT OF
AND FOOD PRODUCTION                                                       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND SOCIAL IWELFARE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF                                                                                                                              COLLECTOR REVENUE
AGRICULTURE- RANGE                                                                                                                              DISTRICT
DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL OFFICER
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT           -,
I                                    BLOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICER                                                      PANCHAYAT
I                                    tCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT)                                                        SAMIAT
ARCLTURALI                |                       IAGRICULTURALI   IAGRICULTURALI   IAGRICULTURALI
EXTENSION                     ________.EXTENSION                        EXTENSION         EXTENSION
OFFICER                      IOFIEOFIEOFCR
FIELDMN          VILAGE            I VILLAGE                                    VILLAGEVILG
FEDEMONSRTS           LELEV      EL                                  EVEL-  --     -LEVEL                                                                    PANCHAYAT
DrONTRTOS        WORKER                                       WREI               WORKERf8)         ORE (sI
L--            --   AX --      -     - --------                  -X[                                                                                      PNH 5
                I I___^_______________l__W FARMERS                                                                                                                   1
World Bank - 16386



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Orissa has considerable scope for increasing crop production and
extending cropped area, both rainfed and irrigated, at present lagging behind
other Indian States in yield of many crops. Rice yield is about 85% of the
all-India average and only about 50% of yield in the four most progressive
States. Adoption of improved cropping systems has been inhibited by a number
of factors, one of which has been a limited extension effort and another, a
lack of a viable research effort to supply extension and farmers with needed
information.
Agricultural Research Institutions
2.        Two major institutions conduct basic and applied research in Orissa;
the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) and the Central
Rice Research Institute (CRRI) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR). The Department of Agriculture conducts some adaptive research; and
the Regional Research Laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR) conducts some research at Bhubaneswar on medicinal, aromatic
and other plants, which may have economic value to the pharmaceutical
industry.
CRRI
3.        CRRI was established in 1946 and, since 1966, has been a part of
ICAR. It is involved in all aspects of basic and applied research on rice
to develop high-yielding varieties (HYV) under a range of different agro-
ecological conditions for use throughout India and with resistance or tol-
erance to the major pests and diseases. It is located at Cuttack near
Bhubaneswar, the capital, on a 121-ha research farm with a professional staff
of 120 scientists of which 60% have PhD degrees and most of the remainder,
Masters degrees. All major disciplines are represented and the research
effort is on a commodity-oriented multidisciplinary team approach. Its total
annual budget was Rs 8 M in 1975/76. It is hoped to finance certain aspects of
CRRI activities under a National Research Project presently under preparation.
4.        There is some cooperation between CRRI and OUAT and the Department
of Agriculture. The Director of CRRI is on the Board of OUAT, and the Dean of
Research of OUAT is a member of CRRI's management. There are joint programs



ANNEX 4
Page 2
whereby selected varieties developed at CRRI are tested with Extension on
State research farms and in "minikit" (small packet of seed and fertilizer)
trials on a small portion of cooperating farmers' fields.
5.        CRRI has produced a number of HYV of rice for irrigated areas, and
these, though used in Orissa, have increased production most notably in Pun-
jab and Haryana. It is also intimately involved in the All-India Coordinated
Rice Improvement Project (AICRIP) in cooperation with State rice research pro-
grams. AICRIP has produced a number of varieties which are being grown in
the more humid high rainfall areas of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Mysore, Andhra
Pradesh and West Bengal.
OUAT
6.        OUAT was established in 1962.  At its inception, the main research
station at Bhubaneswar and two small substations were transferred to OUAT from
the Department of Agriculture. The primary function of the University has
naturally been teaching, with research mainly supporting higher degree
studies in Agriculture, Botany, Agronomy, Economics, Extension, Horticulture,
Mycology, Pathology, Nematology, Statistics, Physiology and Chemistry. OUAT
graduates about 125-130 students to BSc level and about 65 graduates to MSc
level each year. The Veterinary College graduates about 42 BSc and 24 MSc
annually and about 20 BSc graduates from the Agricultural Engineering College.
7.        Research at OUAT is under a Dean of Research who has responsibility
for coordination of research at the University and for administrative direc-
tion of the research stations. Research coordination is accomplished, not
very effectively, through meetings with the Deans of the different faculties.
They have full responsibility for their research programs, which reinforces a
disciplinary approach to crop problems; but there is some collaboration be-
tween certain disciplines, such as between Entomologists and Plant Pathologists
working with Rice Breeders to produce varieties resistant to serious pests
and diseases.
OUAT Research Stations
8.        At present, OUAT has seven research stations transferred from the
Department of Agriculture. The main station on the University campus at
Bhubaneswar, is a research farm of 246 ha, of which 20 ha is flooded during
the monsoon season. The farm has 8 tanks, 4 tubewells and 5 tractors, and
facilities for conducting research on various agronomic and horticultural
crops as well as livestock. Most of the research program at the main station
and at the outlying stations is currently financed by ICAR in all-India coor-
dinated projects. The present annual budget for the main Research Station is
Rs 1.72 M of which 45% is involved in ICAR shemes. At the outlying stations
the percentage is much higher, with 92% involved in ICAR schemes at the
Chiplima and Pottangi Research Stations out of annual budgets of Rs 0.59 M and
Rs 0.14 M respectively. The majority of the staff in these ICAR schemes have
temporary appointments with the University, which do not lend much permanence
to the research effort.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        The research stations and programs are:
Research Program
Research Station    Location                State               ICAR
Main Station         Bhubaneswar       Weed Research       Dryland Agriculture
Rice Research       Potato Improvement
Tobacco Scheme      Vegetable Improvement
(Virus Free       Agronomic Research
Control)         Long-Term Fertilizer
Experiment
Oilseed (Sesamum)
Wheat
Regional Station    Chiplima           Maize & Millet      Rice Improvement
Rice                Oilseed (Groundnut)
Water Management and
Soil Salinity
Agronomic Research
Tobacco
Jute Research        Kendrapara               -            Jute
Station
Research Station    Berhampur          Maize and Millet   Tobacco
Rice
Research Station    Jeypore            Maize and Millet   Rice
Rice                Millets
Research Station    Pottangi           Pepper              Potato
Cardamom            Cashewnut
Spices
Pineapple
Saline Station       Keshpur           Rice
Station                            Ragi
Of the above outlying research stations, Chiplima is the largest with a 93-ha
farm, and 10 professional staff and 77 supporting staff devoted full time to
research and without teaching responsibilities. In addition to the research
stations, OUAT also conducts research on some Government farms as follows:
Farm                                Scheme
Chakuli           Water Management and Soil Salinity (ICAR)
Golabandha        Coconut (ICAR)
Ainginia          Cashewnut and spices (ICAR)
Shamakhunta       Rice (State)



ANNEX 4
Page  4
Research Programming and Funding - OUAT
10.       OUAT has a Board of Management, and a Finance Establishment Commit-
tee which approves all budgets and programs. The Finance and Establishment
Committee consists of the Vice-Chancellor of the University, who is Chairman,
GOO Secretary of Finance, Secretaries of Agriculture and Cooperation, Animal
Husbandry and Forestry, Finance and Community Development, Director of Agri-
culture and a Member of the Legislative Assembly. This group scrutinizes all
budget requests prepared by the University Controller, in consultation with
Deans and Heads of Departments. The Department of Agriculture appears to have
sufficient authority on this Committee to prevent approval of certain bud-
getary items of the University which it does not favor, and this has created
friction in the past. All budgets and programs approved by the Finance and
Establishment Committee are then taken to the University Board of Manage-
ment for approval. The Board has no less than 19 members, including the Pro-
Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, Chief Secretary, Secretaries of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry, Finance, Cooperation and Forestry, Community Development,
Chief Engineer, 2 members of Legislative Assembly, 3 nominees of Government,
University Teacher Representative, Registered Graduate Representative,
Directors of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and Farmers' Representative.
The University can go back for supplementary budgets if the need arises before
the annual budget is approved.
Research Accomplishments - QUAT
Rice
11.       Several HYV of rice have been produced by OUAT.  Three semi-dwarf
selections through hybridization were released as Hema, Kumar and Rajeswari,
have high yield, and are suitable for red and laterite soils - the major
soil types of Orissa. Subsequently varieties which are early maturing,
adaptive to low land conditions and resistant to major pests and diseases
have been found. These include the recently released varieties Parijata and
Suphala which have gained acceptance by cultivators because of early maturing
and high yield (4-6 tons/ha). One of the varieties, Parijata as OR34-16,
ranked first in AICRIP trials during the 1974 rabi season. A number of
promising drought resistant varieties have been selected in preliminary
trials, including DR-92, OR45-61-23 and CR-125-12-17.
Millets
12.       One variety of ragi, the most important millet in Orissa, has
been released as Divyasingha. Two new varieties, not yet released, ranked
first in All-India Coordinated Trials for the early group (T 27A-P4 = IE 273
Mutant) and for the medium group (IE 642).
Pulses
13.       Three new varieties of greem gram have been evolved through mu-
tation breeding (TT 8E, 9E and 18E) and are superior to Pusa Baisakhi and
Koppergan in yield and tolerance to yellow mosaic.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Oilseeds
14.       A number of HYV of groundnut have been produced at Chiplima.  One
of them, OG 73-2 gives 15% higher yield in rabi than the popular variety,
AK 12-24.
Wheat
15.       Four new varieties of wheat have been produced, which are early
maturing, high yielding and tolerant to Helminthosporium and Alternaria
blights.
Farming Systems
16.       Economic evaluations of different cropping systems have shown
that, in irrigated highland light soil areas, three crops per year of maize/
cauliflower/groundnut, or rice/potato/maize can be grown profitably. In-
creased net income can be accomplished by cropping patterns which include
more vegetables, permitting growth of as many as 5-6 crops per year. Im-
proved water management practices have been determined for rice, maize and
potato. Mixed cropping trials in rainfed regions during kharif have led to
recommendation of maize/ragi, red gram/ragi, black gram (on ridges)/rice (in
furrows), or cotton/rice (in medium lands).
Pest and Disease Control
17.       Biological control of the coconut caterpillar has been achieved by
release of two larval parasites and a pre-pupal parasite and these are in
great demand by coconut orchard growers. Various chemicals have been tested
and recommended for control of nematodes, gall midge and stem borer, and rice
weevil. Other chemicals have been identified for control of false smut disease
and udbatta disease in rice and common scab of potato. Strains of rice,
moderately resistant to blight (xanthomonas oryzae), have been isolated in
cooperative trials with rice breeders.
Soil Fertility and Dryland Agriculture
18.       Most red and laterite acid soils of Orissa have been found to
contain high amounts of free oxides of iron and aluminum, causing high
phosphorus fixation and unavailability to plants. In order to minimize
phosphate fixation, various phosphates have been tested and raw and partially
acidulated rock phosphates, dicalcium phosphate and a mixture of rock phos-
phate and superphosphate are now recommended for these soils, depending on
degree of acidity. Various optimum fertilizer applications, for the improved
HYV of rice have been worked out. By-products of the paper mill industry have
been found useful in liming acid soils in dryland areas during the kharif
season. Paper mill sludge at the rate of 3 tons/ha gives high production of
black gram, groundnut, ragi, and cotton.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Constraints
19.       Despite the accomplishments outlined above, much more effective ap-
plied and adaptive research is needed to overcome the constraints to crop
production in Orissa. As an example, HYV cover 80-90% of the area under rice
in irrigated rabi season, but only about 10% during the rainfed kharif season.
Assurance of water source, through irrigation, in the rabi season contributes
to farmers' willingness to use HYV and inputs of fertilizers and pesticides.
During the kharif season the uncertainty of rainfall, fluctuating water lev-
els, greater susceptibility to pests and diseases and reduced solar radia-
tion, all contribute to reluctance in using HYV with their costly inputs.
There is little doubt that the use of HYV during kharif season, using nitro-
gen fertilizer, could substantially increase rice production in Orissa; but
it is understandable that farmers are unwilling to take risks - such as
applying expensive nitrogen fertilizers which may be washed away by heavy
rains - unless some way can be found of reducing them. One way is to develop
improved cultivation practices during kharif. Only through the use of such
measures, developed in applied and adaptive trials convincingly demonstrated
to farmers by the extension service in contact farmers' fields, will it be
possible to overcome the reluctance of farmers to use HYV during kharif.
20.       Major constraints, preventing OUAT from conducting effective re-
search, have been the severe shortage of funds for research, and lack of ade-
quate facilities, staff and effective cooperation with Extension. The problem
is compounded at the main research station because all staff have dual re-
sponsibility for teaching and research. Since lecturing commitments are
high, it seriously affects the amount of time which can be spent on research,
which tends to be discipline-oriented and related to higher academic degree
requirements. At the outlying stations, staff are devoted full time to re-
search, but most of them have temporary appointments with restricted operating
funds severely limiting what they can do. There is also inadequate coordina-
tion of research between the disciplines in the Agriculture Faculty, as well
as between the research stations, and with CRRI and other national and inter-
national institutions. Emphasis needs to be given to regional problems, with
proper linkage between applied research, conducted at the research stations,
and adaptive research on selected farms in each of the 13 Districts of the
State. The establishment of a Coordination Unit for this purpose within
OUAT is needed, which could also collect and generate research information.
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. General Description
Program Goals
21.       The project would strengthen applied and adaptive agricultural re-
search to provide practical answers to farmers' problems so that they can



ANNEX 4
Page 7
increase agricultural productivity in Orissa. It would focus on the key
commodities, which include rice (above all) and other cereals, pulses, oil-
seeds, fibers, sugarcane and important horticultural crops. It would concen-
trate on developing improved cultivation practices with high-yielding vari-
eties, which would be acceptable to farmers in kharif under different agro-
climatic regimes of the State. It would also involve research on improved
farming systems and cropping patterns to increase farmers' income. Research
would be conducted on a multidisciplinary team approach. All staff would be
permanent appointees of OUAT devoted full time to research, with only incidental
teaching. Four applied research stations would be supported in different agro-
ecological regions which are in the four main agricultural areas of the State.
In addition, 13 adaptive research farms would be used, one for each District,
to test out agronomic practices in each locality with new varieties developed
at the applied research stations of OUAT or elsewhere. Through this research
effort, in support of and combined with Extension, crop production should
increase substantially, and in five years' time kharif rainfed rice should
increase from the present (1975) average yield of 0.76 tons/ha to 1.5 tons/ha
and irrigated rice from the present 1.28 tons/ha to 2.0 tons/ha.
22.       The four applied research stations would include two existing ones
at Bhubaneswar and Chiplima and two new stations as follows:
Area (ha)    Station                              Region
246      Bhubaneswar                 Coastal Zone
80      Chiplima                    Central Plateau - Table Land
100      Simliguda                   Eastern Ghat - Highland Zone
117      Keonjhar                    Northern Plateau - Undulating Land
23.       The adaptive Research Farms in the 13 districts would be:
Farm Area
Coastal Zone                    District                 (ha)
1.  Barchana                   Cuttack                    15
2.  Sakhigopal                 Puri                       26
3.  Balia                      Balasore                   16
4.  Golanthara                 Ganjam                     16
Central Plateau Table Land
5.  R.E. Farm                  Bolangir                   48
6.  Chakuli                    Sambalpur                  22
7.  Mahisapat                  Dhenkanal                  40
8.  Phulbani                   Phulbani                   26
Northern Plateau - Undulating Land
9.  Samakhunta                 Mayurbhani                 28
10.  Keonjhar                   Keonjhar                   20
11.  Sundargarh                 Sundargarh                 20



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Eastern Ghat - Highland Zone
12.  Simliguda                 Koraput                   804
13.  Arkabali                  Kalahandi                  75
Program Components
24.       In order to achieve the goals outlined above, the program would
have the following components:
(a) civil works at three outlying applied research stations
including staff quarters and a 24-bed dormitory;
(b) research farm development at all applied research stations
and some adaptive research farms;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles;
(d) increase in permanent professional and support staff
at stations and farms; and
(e) establishment costs of the project during a five-year
period.
Details of the investment to be made are in Annex 17 Tables 1-6.
B. Detailed Features
Applied Research Stations
25.       The four stations would work on those crops most important in their
respective agroecological regions as follows:
(a) Cultivation Practices. Techniques which improve crop
productivity would be emphasized for study. These
would include land preparation, time of planting in
relation to rainfall patterns, spacing, alternative
farming systems and cropping patterns, soil amend-
ments (organic and inorganic), pesticide and herbicide use.
Improved water management practices and more effective
utilization on dryland farming would also be studied.
(b) Varietal Improvement. Plant breeding, screening, iden-
tification and selection of varieties useful to farmers
would be intensified for factors relevant to the different
agroclimatic regions, seasons, water levels, soil types
and resistance to various pests and diseases.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(c) Pest and Disease Control. Studies woud be accelerated
on pests and diseases which seriously affect crop pro-
duction in Orissa. Particular emphasis would be placed
on rice pests, especially gall midge but also stem bor-
ers, leaf hoppers, blast and tungro virus. The epidem-
iology, prophylactic measures for control in nursery
beds and rice fields, chemical control where necessary,
and screening for resistant or tolerant varieties would
be undertaken in joint programs by the entomologists, plant
pathologists and crop breeders at the stations.
(d) Economic Studies. Economists-Statisticians at each of
the stations would evaluate the various cultivation prac-
tices, alternative farming systems and cropping patterns
developed in the studies outlined above. The economic
impact of the various recommendations would be assessed
before extension personnel were given the improved
practices and/or new crop varieties to present to
farmers in the region.
Adaptive Research Farms
26.       The main function of the Adaptive Research Farms would be to test
out, under the existing local conditions of each of the 13 districts, the rec-
ommendations from the Applied Research Stations before recommending their use
to Extension and farmers. Recommendations would include improved cultivation
practices, alternative farming systems, cropping patterns and improved vari-
eties. Results obtained would be evaluated by the Economist-Statistician at
the Research Coordination Unit in Bhubaneswar.
C. Organization and Management
27.       The research programs outlined above would be the responsibility of
OUAT Dean of Research. To assist him in ensuring a multidisciplinary ap-
proach and to effectively coordinate research at the applied research stations
and adaptive research farms, a Research Coordination Unit would be established
at Bhubaneswar. Each of the three Applied Research Stations in the outlying
regions would be headed by an Associate Director of Research, directly res-
ponsible to the Dean of Research.
28.       Technical programs for each of the stations and adaptive research
farms would be formulated for the kharif and rabi season in consultation with
the concerned scientists. An agreed program would then be discussed in a
working group, headed by the Dean of Research and the heads of each major



ANNEX 4
Page 10
discipline and the Associate Directors of Research. The research programs
would then be discussed at State level in half-yearly meetings, presided over
by the Dean, with representatives of Extension. Programs adopted at these
meetings would then be put into practice. The results of research for each
year would be compiled in a technical report and circulated to all concerned
and would serve as the basis for recommendations by Extension to farmers.
29.       Each of the Applied Research Stations and Adaptive Research Farms
would have adequate field, laboratory and staff quarters facilities to carry
out a viable farmer problem-oriented research program.
Extension Relationships
30.       Relationships between research and extension would be substantially
improved. In order to foster closer linkages between these two important
groups, and so benefit the farmers, the adaptive research farms would be on
Government-operated farms. The Research Officer and Senior Research Assistant
supplied by OUAT to each farm would be responsible to the Range Deputy Director
of Agriculture. The Research Officer would design, lay out and operate the
field trials on the farm. He would also supervise any trials in the district
and advise extension staff on their layout. He would, however, look to the
Research Coordination Unit for guidance and supply of information and materials
regarding trials on the adaptive research farm.
31.       Research workers at the Applied Research Stations and Adaptive Re-
search Farms would be actively associated with training sessions held at the
State, Range and District levels. The three outlying Applied Research Sta-
tions would each have a 24-bed dormitory to permit periodic visits of
extension personnel to provide for a mutual information exchange of the
latest findings and farmers' problems with crop production.
Collaborating Institutions
32.       The Applied Research Stations would maintain close collaboration
with national research organizations, such as the Research Institutes of ICAR,
and especially CRRI at Cuttack, AICRIP, and ICRISAT at Hyderabad, and with
key research programs at Universities and Departments of Agricultures con-
ducted in other States of India. Collaboration would be encouraged with such
international research organizations as IRRI in the Philippines, Asia Vegetable
Research Center at Taiwan and CIMMYT in Mexico, and with research in countries
such as Australia, USA, Japan, Israel and USSR.
D. Staffing
33.       The staff at the four Applied Research Stations at full development
would comprise 41 professionals and 165 supporting staff. Proposed staffing



ANNEX 4
Page 11
at the four stations is shown on page 12. The 13 Adaptive Research Farms
would have a total of 13 Research Officers, 13 Senior Research Assistants
and 13 Junior Research Assistants supplied by OUAT, with the support staff
supplied by the Department of Agriculture.
III. COST ESTIMATES
34.       Estimated costs of the agricultural research component excluding
contingencies, would be approximately Rs 44.1 M (US$4.9 M). Details are given
in Annex 17.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Staffing - Applied Research Stations at Full Development
Coastal      Central    Highland    Northern
Zone     Plateau Zone   Zone    Plateau Zone
Professional                      Bhubaneswar   Chiplima   Simliguba   Keonjhar
Associate Director of Research       -             1            1           1
Agronomist                           1             1            -           1
Plant 3reeders                       2             1            2           1
Entomologist                         1             1            1           1
Plant Pathologist                    1             1            1           1
Horticulturist                       1             1            1           1
Chemists                             2             1            1           1
Farm Superintendent                  1             -            -           1
Agricultural Engineer                -             1            -           -
Economist-Statistician               1*            1            1           1
Plant Physiologist                   -             -            1           1
Soil Conservation                    -             -            -           1
12             9            9         11
Suapport Staff
Senior Research Staff                1*            8            7          10
Junior Research Staff                1             8            7           6
Statistical Assistant                1             1            1           1
Farm Manager                         1             1            1           -
Overseers& Suboverseers              2             4            3           -
A.S.O.                               1             -            -           -
F.M.D.                               4            13            9           9
Stenographer                         1*            1            -           -
L.D.C. - Typist                      1             1            1           1
L.D. Assistant                       1*            -            -           -
Drivers - Jeep, tractor, pump,
truck                     1*+2          4            1           4
Storekeeper                          1             1            -           1
Mechanics & assistants               3             -            -           -
Accountant                           1              -           -           -
Watchmen                             3             -            2           3
Laborers, permanent                  1*+10         7            3           5
Senior Clerks                        -             2            -           1
Cleaners                             -             2            -           -
* On staff of Research Coordination Unit.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Implements
A. Background
Introduction
1.        Much of the early benefit from an intensified agricultural extension
program would stem from the adoption of improved cultural practices, particu-
larly techniques to achieve more timely planting, increased plant population,
better moisture conservation and effective weed control. The use of improved
farm implements, particularly replacement of the wooden country plow with an
iron or steel plow, would help successful adoption of these practices.
2.        The country plow requires several passes to achieve even partial
soil inversion which results not only in poor weed control, but also inefficient
use of man and bullock hours. While a case can be made for selective mechan-
ization, the vast majority of farmers (93% of holdings are below 5 ha and 43%
below 1 ha) will continue for many years to rely on bullock power to achieve
any improvement in the cultivation system.
3.        A considerable amount of valuable work has been carried out by Central
Rice Research Institute (CRRI) and the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Pro-
duction (DAFP) in research, development testing and production of animal drawn
equipment. As a result, proven and competitively priced implements are avail-
able on a limited scale, manufactured by the DAFP Agricultural Engineering
Section in Bhubaneswar. The biggest impact has been made by the steel plow
and at present there are estimated to be about 80,000 steel and cast iron
plows, the latter manufactured privately - in use in the State, or about 3% of
the total.
4.        Other implements which have been produced and distributed on a
limited basis include a disc harrow, two-row seed-drill, three-tyne culti-
vator with seeding attachment, hand weeders, and low lift hand pump. How-
ever, though these improved farm implements, particularly the plow, have
been under development and limited production for some years, many farmers
away from the main centers have not even seen an improved plow. At present,
these implements are primarily in use in the coastal areas and in small
pockets where limited demonstrations have been run by DAFP.



ANNEX 5
Page  2
Development, Manufacture and Demonstration
5.        Under the Joint Director of Agriculture (JDA) Engineering, the
DAFP implement manufacturing unit handles development and manufacture of
implements. In addition the Agricultural Engineering Section has a unit for
demonstration of farm implements and water management techniques, operating in
25 of the 314 administrative blocks. Section staff includes three executive
engineers, thirteen assistant agricultural engineers and forty-four mechanical
or agricultural engineering supervisors.
6.        In 1975/76, the DAFP manufacturing unit, managed by an assistant
engineer and run on two shifts, produced implements valued at Rs 0.36 M in-
cluding about 5,500 mould-board plows. The unit about breaks even financially.
Annual capacity could be increased on the present site, with a small addition
to equipment, to a turnover of about Rs 0.9 M, including 14,000 plows. Through-
put has been constrained by lengthy government requisitioning procedures for
materials, but these are being streamlined to avoid undue delays in the
future.
7.        The Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) Hirakaud Industrial
Workshop, in Sambalpur District, has also satisfactorily produced a small batch
(500) of mild and carbon steel plows to DAFP specifications. The workshop is
concerned mainly with fabrication of items such as electric transmission
towers, but has the capacity to expand production of plows in its foundry. One
of several private entrepreneurs in Orissa sold about 6,000 cast iron mould
board plows in 1975/76. These sell at about Rs 22 compared with Rs 32 for the
steel plows; but they wear more quickly.
Distribution
8.        Distribution of the small number of improved implements manufactured
each year is presently handled primarily by DAFP through Block offices, but
also through village stores and by the Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC),
(Appendix 1) which distributes through its branches and agro-service centers.
Private entrepreneur sales are concentrated in the coastal areas and, overall,
improved farm implements are not readily available in the State nor is there
an established distribution chain.
9.        Prices of the plow and main items of DAFP manufactured equipment ex-
works are presently: steel plow Rs 32; three-tyne cultivator Rs 91; seeding
attachment for country plow Rs 7; blade weeder Rs 16; two-row seed drill Rs
247; seed treating drum Rs 146. Prices include 6% sales tax and at present
all farmers receive a subsidy of 10% on purchases of the plow; small and
marginal farmers benefttting under the Small Farm Development Agency are
able to receive subsidies of 25% and 33-1/3% respectively.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
B. Role of Farm Implements in Improved Agricultural Practices
Contribution to Improved Cultural Practices
10.       Improved implements provide the key to better weed prevention
through better initial soil inversion, more timely land preparation operations,
and simplified line sowing, which facilitates weeding.
11.       Land Preparation.  Use of the improved steel plow for land prepar-
ation leads to lower cost per hectare and improved timeliness of opera-
tion. Time for land preparation under dry land conditions is reduced by 50%,
one plowing with the steel plow and two disc harrowings (or use of the
wooden plow) replacing 4 to 5 operations with the wooden plow. Similarly,
under wet land conditions one pass with the steel plow, followed by two
passes with a comb harrow, will replace five passes with the wooden plow. As
a result, time is reduced from 16 to 8 days per hectare, cost is reduced by
about 40% and sowing or transplanting date can be advanced as much as 20
to 25 days with consequent important improvements in yield:
Power requirement per        Cost per
hectare               hectare /a
Operation                Man hours    Bullock hours        Rupees
Dry land
Plowing with wooden country                 157            314             240
plow, four times
Plowing with 6 inch steel                    65            130             103
plow once and use of five tined
cultivator twice after plowing
Wet land
Country plow (duck-footed narrow
bottom (5 passes))                        132            264             192
Plowing by steel plow                        70            140             115
followed by two puddling
operations
/a   Man and bullock hours at Rs 0.50 + annual cost of improved plow @ Rs 7
per ha. There can however some limitations to the use of the mould-
board plows. In heavy soils it can be used only during a short period
of optimal moisture conditions. In sandy soil, wear ts rapid.
Source: CRRI-Cuttack



ANNEX 5
Page 4
12.       Sowing.  Introduction of a simple seed tube and funnel attached to
the wooden plow provides a means for line sowing, enabling easier weed control
and achieving considerable saving in seed of 20% to 30%. Apart from the
agronomic advantages of line sowing, there is also a considerable saving in
time. Use of the two row seed drill presently under development will provide
further savings, and increased efficiency:
Power Requirement                         /a
Practice         Seed Rate          per hectare           Output  Cost/ha.  in
kg/ha     Man hours  Bullock hours  ha per    Rupees
8 hours
Seed sown broadcast
and covered by
wooden plow               86          23            42           0.38       172
Seed sown by manually       37         20             -           0.38        97
operated two-row
paddy drill in
puddled soil
/a   Man and bullock hours @ Rs 0.50, Seed @ Rs 1 per kg; seed drill annual
cost Rs 50 per ha.
Source: CRRI - Cuttack
13.       Weeding.  The combination of effective plowing and line sowing
should lead to the abandonment of the present practice of cross plowing
("behushoning") broadcast rice, which results in a serious reduction in plant
population. Hand pulling of weeds is often avoided at present but avail-
ability of simple hand weeders, although requiring some labor input, shouild
encourage weed control where presently not undertaken.
On Farm Costs and Benefits
14.       Total investment in improved farm implements per farm is small in
comparison to expected benefits; the annual cost, including capital repayment
and interest and repairs and maintenance, being equivalent to 130 kg of paddy
on a one or two-hectare farn and 510 kg on a five-hectare farm:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
1 and 2 ha Farms           5 ha Farm
Item                        No.        Investment /a   No.        Investment /a
Cost                       Cost
Rupees                     Rupees
Plow                        1              37            1            37
Rake weeder                 1               7            1             7
3-tyne-cultivator           1             155            1           155
Seed tube and funnel        1               8            -             -
Seed drill                  -               -            1           284
Disc harrow                 -               -            1           350
207                        833
Investment per ha                         138                        167
Annual Cost
Capital Repayment over
3 yrs; interest at 12%                   86                       347
Repairs & maintenance @ 7 1/2%             16                         63
102                       410
Quantity of Paddy
to cover annual cost  -  Total            130 kg                     510 kg
-  per ha          65 kg                     102 kg
Increase in Paddy Yield/Ha
expected /b                             700 kg                    700 kg
/a Prices are at the level to be charged with project, see paras 9 and 37.
/b From traditional system to improved cultural practices and low
fertilizer under rainfed conditions.
15.       Farm budget projections for farms taking up the package of practices
including purchase of farm implements demonstrate that there will be a sub-
stantial incentive for farmers to participate. Medium term (three years)
loan facilities would be required to assist farmers purchase the full range
of equipment, though initially most sales would be plows alone and the small
amounts required could be financed as part of short term credit.
16.       In the case of a 2 ha rainfed farm after all debt servicing, net
farm income would r[se from Rs 1,500 to about Rs 4,000 at full development.
After home consumption, cash income would rise steadily from Less than Rs 200
to over Rs 2,000 per year (Table 1).



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Expected Demand
17.       The main requirement for improved animal drawn implements will be
on the 1.6 M holdings in the 1-4 hectare range and the 0.3 M holdings between
4-10 hectares. Above this, farmers are likely to take up full mechanization.
The ultimate requirement for improved farm implements has been estimated
crudely from farm census data. Estimates of crop areas categorized according
to elevation, sowing method and whether irrigated or rainfed, have been
compared with data for implement capacity and then adjusted with farm size
distribution data. On this basis it is estimated that there is a potential
demand for some 700,000 improved mould-board plows, 1.4 M hand weeders,
630,000 simple seeding attachments, 300,000 three-tyne cultivators with
seeding attachments, 40,000 seed drill and 340,000 disc harrows (Table 2).
In addition, some export demand from other States would be expected. It is
difficult to say, however, at what rate actual demand would develop.
18.       Within four years some 43% of kharif paddy land could be under im-
proved cultural practices. After allowing for land area under full mechani-
zation and a 50% uptake of improved plows by "eligible" farmers some 40,000
plows a year would need to be sold to meet this requirement (Table 3).
C. Project Actions
19.       The project would support the design, development, manufacture and
distribution of the animal drawn farm implement industry to meet farmers'
needs in improving cultural practices through:
-    establishment of a research and design unit at the College
of Agriculture and Engineering Technology, OUAT;
-    expansion of production at the DAFP manufacturng unit;
-    intensification of the DAFP demonstration activites in
support of the reorganized extension service;
-    creation of a sound distribution network under the aegis
of AIC which would also contract with corporate (e.g. IDC)
or private entrepreneurs for the manufacture of implements
required in excess of DAFP capacity.
Research and Design (OUAT)
20.       Objectives and Responsibilities.  With improved cultural practices
to be stimulated on a State-wide basis, there is urgent need to establish a
research and design unit which will provide a pipeline of improved implements
suitable for a wide range of soil conditions. At the same time, there is a
need to develop equipment for a range of other jobs such as foodgrain harvest-
ing, water lifting development of structures for irrigated area development,
and low volume, sprayers for herbicides.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
21.       The College of Agricultural Engineering and Technology, OUAT, would
be responsible for fundamental research and design of new implements, in close
liaison with DAFP and CRRI. Responsibilities would cover:
(a) Improvement of implements being recommended for large-scale
adoption, particularly: design improvements to achieve better
performance in the mould-board plow, under heavy land conditions,
and selection of materials for improved performance at lower
cost.
(b) Testing and development of other implements in design and
prototype stage, particularly: evaluation of disc harrow
for secondary cultivation under dry conditions and for puddling,
development and modification of seeding devices; further work
on paddy weeders; development of grain and pulse winnowers;
water lifting devices; prefabricated structures for use in
water management works, particularly for the Irrigation Com-
mand Area Development (CAD) program under which structures
such as channel lining, drops and diversion boxes are required.
(c) Evolving alternative machines and implements suitable for
field needs, particularly: design of equipment for fertilizer
placement; design of a steel plow for conditions where inversion
of soil is not important and of alternative cultivators; design
of implements for crops such as sugar cane, potatoes, cotton
and maize; development of suitable threshers.
22.       Organization.  A research and design unit would be set up under a
Chief Research Engineer with two Research Engineers and two Assistant Engineers.
The unit would be located at the OUAT, College of Agricultural Engineering
and Technology in Bhubaneswar. The Chief Engineer would be responsible to
the Dean of the College.
23.        Project Cost.  Under the project, support would be provided for:
-     purchase of workshop equipment required over and above
the present complement and a 4W-D vehicle for use in field
testing; total cost Rs 265,000 (US$29,000); Annex 22 table 1.
-     five years' staff and operating costs estimated at Rs 1.43 M
(US$159,000); Annex 22, table 2.
Manufacture and Demonstration (DAFP)
24.       Objectives and Responsibilities.  DAFP would retain responsibility
for, initially, a major share of production and development and demonstration
of implements across the State. Once private entrepreneurs take up production
of bulk items, DAFP would concentrate on manufacture of more sophisticated
equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Manufacture and Demonstration (DAFP)
25.       Manufacture.  Throughput of the existing DAFP manufacturing unit at
Bhubaneswar would be stepped up to about 14,000 mould board plows per annum,
which is about the capacity of existing buildings and management. A 120-ton
power press would be provided to improve manufacturing efficiency.
26.       The DAFP manufacturing unit would be strengthened by setting up a
sub-unit to develop implement manufacturing processes. In addition, proto-
types would also be manufactured for distribution to the adaptive research
farms, where field tests and trials would be conducted. This unit would be
headed by an experienced agricultural engineer and would have two assistant
engineers. The project would also include additional testing equipment, to
supplement existing workshop facilities, and staff and operating for five
years.
27.       It is expected that demand under the project would build up to the
order of 50,000 plows a year. Requirements over and above DAFP production
would, initially, be manufactured by IDC to specifications produced by DAFP.
Ultimately, private entrepreneurs would be expected to take up manufacture.
AIC, which would assume responsibility for distribution (para 33), would
place contracts with IDC and private entrepreneurs and would be responsible
for quality control.
28.       IDC is financed by commercial banks refinanced by the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI) and would require no additional financing
under the project. Private entrepreneurs would be able to obtain finance
through the State Finance Corporation (SFC) which has adequate funds
available.
29.       Demonstration.  The DAFP mobile demonstration units would be ex-
panded and regrouped to cover the 13 agricultural ranges proposed under the
project. The demonstration units would provide support to the extension
service in demonstrating to farmers the role of the implements in the im-
proved cultural practices recommended as part of the package of practices,
see Annex 2. The demonstration units would follow a systematic program in
close liaison with the extension service, and each unit would be expected to
conduct 150 demonstrations a year, covering about 30,000 farmers per agri-
cultural range per year.
30.       Each of the 13 units would be equipped with a demonstration van and
with a complete set of basic implements, as well as sophisticated implements
in the first phase of introduction. The demonstration personnel would consist
of one Agricultural Engineering Supervisor (a graduate in Agricultural Engineer-
ing), one fitter and one helper, in addition to the driver of the vehicle.
Audiovisual aids consisting of a film projector, speech equipment and accesso-
ries would be included. The unit would work closely with the Subject Matter
Specialist in farm machinery, at range level, to backstop extension workers
and participate in field training.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
31.       Project Cost.  The project would include the following:
Manufacture & Workshop                                 Thousand Rupees
Workshop equipment, power press                    391
and vehicle
Staff and operating costs                          378           769
Demonstration Unit
Vehicles and equipment                           1,660
Staff and operating costs                        2,646         4,306
Total                    5,075
=  US$'000   560
32.       Additional short-term working capital finance, estimated at
Rs 537,000 (US$60,000), of which about 70% would be for raw materials, would
be provided from GOO funds.
Distribution (AIC)
33.       AIC would take primary responsibility for marketing and distribution
of the implements and would, according to regularly updated estimates of
demand, place contracts with manufacturers for production. Specifications
would be prescribed by DAFP, and AIC would impose quality control.
34.       Sales outlets.  Sales would be made through a number of different
outlets including:
-    DAFP; block headquarters and demonstration units
-    AIC; ten branch offices and agro-service centers
-    Cooperatives; 59 regional cooperative marketing societies
and 3,300 primary service cooperative societies
-    Private retailers
Some 40% of sales would be expected to be handled through DAFP and AIC outlets
and 60% through cooperatives and the private sector.
35.       Organization.  AIC would appoint a qualified engineer with production
and marketing experience to place manufacturing contracts and exercise quality
control. He would be assisted by an implement engineer. Existing AIC sales
staff would be strengthened with three assistant commercial managers appointed
to be based at the three regional offices -- Cuttack, Berhampur and Sambalpur.
Existing Regional Managers would supervise distribution within their zones
with the help of these assistant Commercial Managers to the various outlets.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
36.       Implements would be transported from Bhubaneswar (DAFP), Hirakaud
(IDC) and Cuttack (private entrepreneurs) by AIC and hired trucks. Working
capital required for setting up the distribution organization would be pro-
vided by AIC equity and commercial bank loans.
37.       Pricing.  Incremental costs of AIC procurement, quality control and
distribution is about 5% of annual ex-factory cost (about Rs 5 M at full
development). A total mark-up of 15% would be charged to cover distribution
cost and commission to final outlet. Accordingly, prices for commercial
distribution would be increased, the plow retailing at Rs 37 compared with
Rs 32 at present (Table 4). Demand is expected to expand rapidly as demons-
tration develops and revised prices are not likely to restrict uptake.
Organization and Management
38.       There is already close liaison between the three institutions to be
concerned with implement design, manufacture and distribution, but to ensure
formal coordination a committee would be set up to oversee the farm implement
component. This committee would be chaired by the JDA, Agricultural Engineering
and would comprise: from OUAT, the Dean of the College of Agriculture and
Chief Engineer, Design Unit; from DAFP the Engineer in charge of Manufacture;
from AIC, the Production/Marketing Engineer.
Attachments: Table 1 - Introduction of Farm Implements and Improved
Practices on 2 ha Rainfed Farm
2 - Ultimate Market Potential for Farm Implements
3 - Expected Distribution of Improved Farm Implements
4 - Farm Implements - Present and Proposed Prices
October 28, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Introduction of Farm Implements and Improved Practices on 2 ha Rainfed Farm
Before                          Year   ---------------------
Project     1         2        3         4                6-10
-----------------  Rupees  ---------------------
Cash Inflow
Gross Revenue'/                                 2,220    2,663    3,290    4,440    4,750    5,060    5,760
Medium Term Loan                                    -      227         -        -         -        -         -
Working Capital Loan 3/                             -      359       260      199         -         _        _
Total cash Inflow                            2,220    3,249    3,55o    4,639    4,77        5,060    5,760
Cash Outflow
Investment in Implements                            -      227         -        -         -        -         -
Operation Costs 2/                                  3      613
Tbtal Cost Outflow & Family Consumption          653        4       540    1 090    1 36       1_630    1,772
Balance before Debt Service                  12,409    3,010               53,422 X9788
Debt Service
Repayment Workinn  Capital Loan                     -      359       260      199         -        -         -
Interest on Working Capital                         -       22        16       12         -        -         -
Medium Term Loan Interest & Repayment v/            -       27       134      134         _        _
Total Debt Service                                -     *- -10               3
Balance after DeYbt Service                  1,567    2,001    2,600    3,204    3,385    3,422    3,988
Family Consumption 4/                             1,400    1,400    1,400    1 400    1 400    1,400    1 400
Cash Balance                                        167      601    1,200                        2,022
1/  Cropping 1 ha upland paddy changed to Ragi 0.5 ha Year 1 and 1.0 ha Year 2; medium and lowland 1.0 ha
paddy and 0.5 ha pulses; total cultivated area 2.5 ha.
2/ Yields and operating costs from packages of practices, Annex 2 Table 1 Package uptake assumptions:
Years 1 and 2 package A, Year 3 package B, Year 5 package 0,  Year 6 package C2.
3/ Farmers expected to make an increasing contribution to working capital over three years.
iT/  On the basis of 150 kg rice per family of six members.  Total 900 kg rice equivalent to 1.4 tons paddy.
v/ Three years repayment, 12% interest, grace period one year.
tugust 10, 1976



ANNEX 5
I_IA                              Table 2
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ultimate Market Potential for Farm Implements
Implement       Crop/Conditions            Area Y/ Area per 'Theoreti-
cultivated    unit    cal maxi-   @ 62 3
um_  need
COD0 ha        ha      '000 units
Iron plow   t  Upland paddy                 697          4          174
Medium land paddy         2,160          4         540
Low land paddy
Low Broadcast          1,078         4          269
Tow Transplanted         500 -       4          125
Wheat                       120         4           30
Total        1,138        706
Weeder :        Dry land
Upland paddy             697         2          349
#heat                    120         2           60
Wet land
Medium land paddy      2,160         2        1,080
ow land                   1,578         2          789
Total        2,278      1,413
Single Row seed tube :
Upland paddy                697          4         174
Medium land paddy         2,160          4         540
Low land broadcast        1,078         4          269
Wheat                       120         4           30
Total        1,013        628
Two row seed dril-:
Wieat                       120          2          60         37
Three row seed drill:
All categories paddy
except transplanted  3,935          8          492       305
Disc harrow :
All categories paddy      4,h35          8         550        341
1/ 90uree: Agricultural Census 1970/71.
/ Assuming 500,000 ha of 579,000 ha low-land under irrigated put to
transplanted rice.
3/ Factor based on land area under 1-4 ha and 4-10 ha farms.
Au-ust 9, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exected Distribution of Imnroved Farm Implements
Year --
Item                          1975/76        1         2          3        4 onwards
Mould board plow                     5,400       14,O00    25,000   043,000       5O,000
Plate weeder                                      5,000    25,000    4D0,000      50,000
Rake weeder                            835        5,000    25,000    4D0,oo0      50,000
Dis8 harrow                                         250       250      2,000       2,500
3-tyne cultivator                      245          250     1,250      2,000       2,500
1-row seeding attachment             3,000       10,000    50,000    80,000      100,000
2-row seed drill                                    25)     1,250      2,000       2,500
Wheel hoe                                           25D     1,250      2,000       2,500
August 8, 1976
CDM



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Implements - Present and Proposed Prices
Cost of 1/          Present Price         New Price 3/
Manufacture
-R-- -----   pees    ------ ----
Mould board plow                           30.25                    32.07               36.61
Trench hoe                                 11.20                    11.87               13.55
Gujarat hand hoe                            9.80                    10.39               11.86
nain hand hoe                               7.85                     8.32                9.5o
Garden rake                                10.50                    11.13               12.71
Rake weeder                                 7.65                     8.11                9.26
3-tyne cultivator                          85.85                    91.00              103.88
3-row seeding attachment                   68.00                    72.08               82.28
Seed treating drum                        137.40                   145.64              166.25
Blade weeder                               15.00                    15.90               18.15
Wheel hoe                                  67.05                    71.07               81.13
Low Lift hand pump                        335.10                   355.21              405.48
2-row seed drill                          232.65                   246.61              281.51
1-row seed equipment (plastic funnel)       6.70                     7.10                8.11
1/ From DAFP Engineering Section.
2/ Including 6% sales tax.
3/ Present price plus 15% of manufacturing cost.
Aia.ttlt. 8. 1 976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ground Water Surveys and Monitoring
Short-term Action Program
1.        A joint exercise between the Government of India (GOI), Government
of Orissa (GOO) and a team of World Bank and FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
staff in September 1975 identified a Short Term Action Program (STAP) with
the primary objective of increasing Orissa foodgrain production and rural
incomes. With a view to ameliorating the adverse effects of erratic rainfall
and extending multiple cropping, the largest STAP component was ground water
development. This provided for construction of 105,000 dug wells, 15,000
simple private tubewells and 3,000 public tubewells and would result in
ground water irrigation for an additional 105,000 ha, beyond the approxi-
mately 50,000 ha now irrigated in this way. The approximate cost would be
Rs 895 M (US$98 H1).
2.        A subsequent Working Group formed by the Agricultural Refinance.
and Development Corporation and GOI to appraise Orissa ground water resources
proposed to change the program to 200,000 dug wells, 15,000 simple private
tubewells and 2,250 public tubewells. This would result in ground water irri-
gation of an additional 295,000 ha, beyond that now so irrigated, at an
estimated cost of Rs 1,180 M (US$130 M). An integral part of STAP, though
not included in the Agricultural Intensification Project, this development
would be financed by ARDC under a general line of credit currently available
from IDA (Credit 540-IN).
3.   Ground water development on this scale would increase the annual extrac-
tion of ground water by an estimated 240,000 ha m (1.95 M ac-ft). The present
level of development results in an annual extraction of approximately 100,000
ha m (800,000 ac-ft). Longer term projections contemplate an annual draft
approaching two million hectare meters.
4.        To assure the orderly development of the ground water resource and
avoid over-exploitation in local areas, a five-year program of investigational
surveys and monitoring has been included in the Intensification Project.
Objectives
5.        The Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation (OLIC) has made reconnaissance
level surveys of ground water resources available in the State of Orissa. More



ANNEX 6
Page 2
detailed investigation is proposed, under the project, to implement proposed
ground water development so as to maximize the use of the resource and facili-
tate long range planning. A more immediate objective is to gain specific know-
ledge of ground water conditions in local areas in order to provide for an
orderly and phased development. Finally, there is a need to monitor the
effects of such development. The scope of the proposed survey and monitoring
activities to be conducted over a five-year period, and the objective of the
proposed program, are described in the following paragraphs.
Surface Hydrology
6.        Collection and evaluation of rainfall and runoff data are essential
to assess the availability of ground water recharge. Instrumentation would
be installed at 92 stations throughout the State by which measurements of
rainfall and runoff would be obtained and recorded.
Ground Water Levels
7.        No comprehensive program of ground water level measurements is
presently being implemented. It is proposed to install 65 specially de-
signed monitoring wells through the State (Map 12339) to determine seasonal
and annual fluctuations of the water table or, in the case of confined
aquifers, the pressure surface. It is proposed to install automatic water
level recorders in many of these wells to facilitate the compilation of con-
tinuous records. Monitoring well site selection is based upon preliminary
identification of ground water storage units which individually exhibit sim-
ilar subsurface geological conditions and water level fluctuations.
Well Inventory
8.        An inventory of existing wells is essential to provide a basis for
evaluation of the effects of project implementation. Data to be compiled
would include well locations, dimensions, drilling logs, pump horsepower,
area served and quantities of ground water pumped. A knowledge of the charac-
teristics of existing wells would allow certain of those wells to be incor-
porated into a ground water level monitoring program.
Planning and Evaluation
9.        A fundamental requirement in formulating a plan of massive ground
water development of this nature includes overall evaluation of the poten-
tial level of development which can be sustained from area to area. The most
efficient and least costly type of well, the intensity and the spacing of
wells are important elements to be considered. Investigation of special
problems, such as development of coastal aquifers threatened by saline water
intrusion, would constitute an ongoing activity.
Quality
10.       Although not originally proposed by GOO as a specific element of
the survey and monitoring program, a comprehensive surface water and ground



ANNEX 6
Page 3
water quality monitoring program would be included. Laboratory determin-
ations of all major mineral constituents, electrical conductivity and pH
would be made. A large number of existing water wells would be included
in an initial survey to establish a pre-project "threshliold cnliOOs'
lesults of this activity would be evaluated and a long range monitoring pro-
gram, reduced in scale, would he formuLated.
Basic Data and Records
11.       Data collected from implementation of survey and -mornitoring pro-
grams would be recorded and filed in a manner which is readily retrievable
and available for use.  A ceril:ral data bank at each of four regional head-
quarters *o0ti.J be established.
Implementation
12.       Though OLIC has a ground water survey cell capable of carrying out
a resource survey program, there is no organization capable of properly moni-
toring the effects of the  proposed ground water development. In Annex 23
is a detaLled itemization of equipment and staff together with estLmaied
costs, proposed for execution of a ground water survey aad monitoring
program.
Equipment and Mlaterials
13.       The major equipment required(  includes two drilling rigs with sup-
porting transport.  A conventional heavy duty rotary rig would be purchased]
i(!o construct exploratory and monitoring wells in alluvial, are-as and a second,
percussion-type, rig would be employed to install wells in weathered and
fractured crystall 1-U rock areas.
14.       Also included would be sufficient casi.ng, welding equipment and
other materials to install 30 deep wells in the coastal plain and some 35
wells in the erosiLonal plain. Other items include electrical logging
equipment, metering and recording devices, laboratory  v,hLig apparatus
for determination of the mineral quality of water, surveying instruments,
field camp facilLties and general office furniture, typewriters, calculators,
printing machines, etc.
Staff
15.       The present andl proposed organization of OLIC is shown in Chart
16240.  As indicated previously, the existing staff and facililties are
generally adequate to perform the proposed survey activity. It is pro-
posed to add two new monitoring divisions, at Balingir and Bhubaneswar,
each headed by a hydrologist, and six sub-divisions, each with an Assistant
Hydrologist.  Office and field staff, drillers and laborers numbering some
160 individuals are included in the compleoient.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Cost
16.       Financing for ground water surveys and monitoring would be provided
to cover the costs of incremental staff salaries, purchases of equipment and
materials, and installation of 65 observation and monitoring wells. Itemized
costs for each component of the project are given in Annex 23.
17.       The total cost to conduct the ground water surveys and monitoring
program during the three-year period is estimated to be Rs 16.6 M, including
approximately Rs 7.9 M for capital expenditures and Rs 8.7 M to cover pro-
jected incremental operating costs.
18.       The proposed expenditure of Rs 16.6 M represents slightly over
one percent of the estimated cost of Rs 1,180 M for ground water development
proposed. Such an expenditure for further investigation and for formulating
and implementing an ongoing monitoring program is reasonable and completely
justifiable in view of the long term benefits, and possibly adverse effects
which might otherwise occur. Early initiation of the proposed surveys
and monitoring is an urgent priority to assure the orderly and efficient
implementation of the planned ground water development.
Water Resource Development
19.       The above is an extract from a July 1976 report by B. A. Babcock,
on Water Resource Development in Orissa, available on request.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 7
Page I
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shallow Tubewell Technology
1.        The planned development of Orissa ground water resources over the
next five years envisions installation of some 200,000 dug wells. It has
been demonstrated that, although the initial capital investment is relatively
low, the cost of producing water from dug wells is the highest of several
alternatives in terms of cost per acre and cost per ac-ft produced. Dug wells
are nevertheless valuable and economically justified for individual farmers
in many areas.
2.        A small number of successful shallow filter point wells has been
installed in Orissa and, under favorable geological conditions, this type of
well is cheaper than a dug well. A filter point well is a variation of the
conventional tubewell in that it is hand-drilled to depths of up to 80 feet,
and may utilize locally available materials. For example, a coir filter,
consisting of a hemp-type wrapping around a bamboo frame, may be used for
the screen and fabricated bamboo pipe employed in lieu of steel casing.
Objectives
3.        The basic objective of the proposed effort requires the research,
design, installation and field testing of alternative types of shallow tube-
wells which can be made available to individual farmers at savings in cost
over present methods of ground water recovery. The development of low cost,
efficient pumping equipment is also a primary goal.
4.        The activity, to be conducted over a three-year period, would in-
clude: (a) evaluation of locally available, less costly material for casing
and screens; (b) review of general design criteria for shallow tubewells;
(c) delineation of areas within the State suitable for installation of low
cost shallow tubewells; (d) investigation and review of the level of tech-
nological development in other countries; (e) design and testing of modified
pumping equipment, including engine driven pumps and hand pumps susceptible
to being driven by animals; and (f) installation and operation of some 96
test and demonstration wells incorporating the findings derived from the re-
search and evaluation program.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Implementation
5.         The Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation (OLIC) has been assigned the
responsibility for implementing the development of this improved shallow well
technology. OLIC has staff with the administrative and technical capability
to conduct a program of this scope with a few additions.    Equipment and
materials necessary to carry out the program would be included in the Inten-
sification Project.
6.         Annex 24, Table 2 details required equipment and materials, the
costs thereof, and a proposed Implementation Schedule over a three-year
period is shown in Annex 29. Included are tubewell components, pumps, trans-
port, hand-boring sets and miscellaneous tools and testing instruments.
Materials for fabrication of a prototype manually-operated pump are also
included.
7.         Required staffing is listed in Annex 24, Table 3, as are the other
components of operation and maintenance.   Staff would include two professional
engineers and 15 technical and general office personnel. Also included, within
the operation and maintenance function, would be activities associated with
the installation and operation of test wells and the maintenance of vehicles,
pumps and drilling equipment.
Cost
8.         The Project would include the costs of equipment,
materials, staff and operation and maintenance. The estimated costs, both
annual and total for capital and operation over a three-year period, are
detailed Annex 24 and summarized below:
TABLE 1
Summary of Costs for Shallow Tubewell Technology Development
(Thousand Rupees)
Cost                                            Project Year
Component                                1           2             3        Total
Capital                                240          343           172        755
Incremental Operating Costs            300          261           240        801
Total                             540         604           412      1,556



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        The total cost required to conduct the proposed shallow tubewell
technology development program is estimated at Rs 1.6 M, of which Rs 755,000
would be required for capital expenditures and Rs 802,000 to cover operation
and maintenance over a three-year period, which should be long enough to show
meaningful results.
10.       It should be noted that the proposed expenditure of Rs 1.6 M
for development of shallow tubewell technology constitutes about 0.1% of
the total cost of ground water development proposed. This is an important
element in the successful execution of the ground water development plan
and early implementation is essential so that the results will be of value
to the Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation ground water program.
Water Resource Development
11.       The above is an extract from a July 1976 report by B. A. Babock on
Water Resource Development in Orissa, available on request.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input Distribution in the Cooperative Sector
I. Input Supply, Distribution and Storage
A. Introduction
1.01      Present use of inputs in Orissa is very low, fertilizer use
averaging only 9 kg/ha (all-India average 14.8), and only some 5% of kharif
paddy is under improved seeds. Agricultural cooperatives handle an estimated
60% of fertilizer distribution with the other 40% sold through private re-
tailers. It is estimated that only about half the villages are served by
private retailers so that, in many outlying areas, the agricultural coopera-
tive is the only retail outlet.
1.02      In many cases, neither cooperatives nor private retailers are well
equipped for the distribution of fertilizers (or other inputs) either in terms
of technical knowledge and training, or the storage, transport and working
capital required. GOI price controls, with fixed distribution margins, also
act as a severe disincentive to handling of fertilizer, particularly in remote
areas.
1.03      Problems arising from the inherently weak distribution system have
been compounded by a high level of credit overdues by cooperative society
members resulting in reduction of turnover as members become ineligible for
production credit to buy inputs. Rescheduling of some short term debts and a
good 1975/76 harvest should reduce this problem in 1976/77; but the real
answer is a firmer stand against overdues and a strengthening of cooperative
training as proposed under the project.
1.04      The Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP) is pri-
marily responsible for the production and, through Block headquarters, the
distribution of improved seed. Seed processing facilities are rudimentary.
Neither cooperatives nor the private sector supply farm implements or chemi-
cals (other than fertilizer) on a large scale and most farmers do not yet
have ready access to them.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Fertilizers
Present Situation
1.05      Supply.  Orissa, with a recorded output of 66,000 tons of fertilizer
nutrients (N and P) in 1974/75, is already a net exporter to other states and
capacity is being increased. Investments, to remove bottlenecks in Hindus-
tan Steel's Orissa Plant at Rourkela and increase production of ammonia, are
being made under the Bank's Fertilizer Industry Credit VII. This will raise
total capacity to 125,000 tons nitrogen (N). In addition, in the second half
of 1977, the Fertilizer Corporation of India is due to begin commercial pro-
duction of urea at a new plant at Talcher, which will have a rated capacity
of 495,000 tons of urea (220,000 tons N). The Orissa State Marketing Co-
operative Society also operates a granulating plant at Bargarh, producing
about 12,000 tons of compound fertilizer a year from imported materials.
1.06      Availability of fertilizers is not, therefore, expected to be a
constraint in Orissa. In particular, if the Talcher plant comes into produc-
tion on schedule, production of nitrogenous fertilizer, which the project
will most stimulate, will be ample within the State. However, India as a
whole is expected to be in deficit on fertilizer nitrogen, certainly into the
1980's, so that there is likely to be a ready demand for Orissa's production
from other States.
1.07      Utilization in Orissa grew rapidly between 1964/65 and 1973/74 at
about 24% per annum to reach 63,000 tons nutrients, but fell in 1974/75 due to
price increases and bad weather. Phosphate (P) and potash (K) consumption
continued to fall in 1975/76 though nitrogen (N) recovered slightly. In 1973/74
consumption averaged 8.6 kg/ha, but with a considerable variation in unit
application between districts and season (Appendix 1, Table 1). In 1975/76
consumption averaged 6.8 kg/ha comprising 5.1 kg N, 1.0 kg P, 0.7 K per
cropped hectare.
1.08      Farmgate Prices.  For all practical purposes, GOI controls fertil-
izer prices. It exercises statutory control over the prices of urea, ammo-
nium sulphate and calcium ammonium nitrate and indirectly influences phos-
phate and potash prices. A sharp rise in 1974, from Rs 2.5 to Rs 4.6 per kg
N, severely checked consumption. At present prices - Rs 4.1 per kg N, from 16
April 1976 - there is not a strong incentive for farmers to apply the recom-
mended biological levels. Assuming an average response of 10 kg paddy per
1 kg N applied, against the market price, the benefit: cost ratio fell from
3.6:1 to 2.0:1 in 1974 and in March 1976 was about 2.4:1. Against the pro-
curement price of paddy, the ratio fell to 1.5:1 in 1974 and in 1975/76 is
1.9:1. At very low rates of application, as will be the case in parts of
Orissa, response rates will be higher, but any further decline in the grain:
fertilizer price would make it difficult to realize the full potential of the
project.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
1974                    1975              1976
1st January   1st June  1st January  1st June  1st March
Paddy Price - Rs per ton
Open Market /a            899          899        1,264        1,264      985 /b
Procurement Price         670          670          780          780      780
Fertilizer Price - Rs per kg nutrient
Nitrogen /c                 2.5          4.6          4.6          4.3      4.1 /d
Price Ratio /e :1              4.5         8.4          7.3          3.4       5.1
Benefit: Cost Ratio /f :1
Open Market                 3.6          2.0          2.7          2.9      2.4
Procurement Price           2.7          1.5          1.7          1.8      1.9
/a   Annual average wholesale market price less Rs 15 per ton for transport
farm to market. Prices are for previous kharif season; supplied by
Food and Civil Supplies Department.
/b   Estimate by May/June appraisal mission.  At peak rabi marketing season
(May) in some locations, open market approached procurement price.
/c   Average of unit cost for urea and calcium ammonium nitrata.  Prices
include Orissa sales tax of 5%.
/d   Urea 46% N reduced from Rs 1,850 to Rs 1,750 per ton product but calcium
ammoniuim nitrate (26% N) unchanged at RS 1,015 per ton.
/e   1 kg fertilizer nutrient: 1 kg paddy at procurement price.
/f   Value of incremental paddy per 1 kg N applied.  Response at 10 kg paddy
per 1 kg N.
1.09      Distribution.  Since 1966, the fertilizer manufacturers have built
up a system of wholesale and retail distributors in the private sector. This
network does not handle imported fertilizers, which are supplied entirely
through the cooperatives. In 1974/75, the private sector accounted for about
half the quantities manufactured within India. In Orissa, there are now
around 240 wholesale dealers and 2,100 retailers, operating as approved dis-
tributors, licensed by DAFP. The agricultural cooperative system has about
3,300 retail sale points.
1.10      The Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI) with over 500 retailers,
has the largest private distribution network in Orissa and maintains a Re-
gional Office at Bhubaneswar. FCI efforts to increase fertilizer sales in



ANNEX 8
Page 4
the State were backed by a budget of Rs 1.8 M for extension and promotional
work in 1975/76.
1.11      GOI controlled distribution margins, a further disincentive to the
expansion of fertilizer uptake, are regarded as an important issue and are
dealt with separately in Section III.
Fertilizer Use with the Project
1.12      Demand Projections.  Projections for fertilizer use through 1983/84,
developed as a basis for estimating input storage and distribution needs, have
been derived from appraisal mission estimates of: uptake of package of
practices (Annex 2) and cropped area in 1979/80 and 1983/84; see Appendix 2.
The data base was not adequate for derivation of trends but experience from
the Rajasthan extension project indicates that reoriented and intensified
extension should have a marked impact on input demand.
1.13      Consumption of nitrogen and phosphate is projected to increase at
about 15% per annum from the average 1973/74 - 1975/76 level, potash at about
9%. After allowing for some increase in fertilizer concentration, uptake of
fertilizer in total product tons is projected to increase as follows:
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
--------------------------- Thousand Tons ----------------------------------
185        225       275       335        385       440        515        590
1.14      Additional Distribution.  Planning for storage and distribution
would need to be one year in advance of estimated consumption and in 1982/83,
is estimated at 515,000 tons or an increment of 324,000 tons on the peak year
(1973/74) to date. It is expected that some 50% of the incremental amount
would be handled by cooperatives and would be supported under the project; in-
vestment needs are summarized in Appendix 4.
C. Seed
Present Situation
1.15      Supply.  In the absence of any organized seed industry in the State,
DAFP is the main source of improved seeds, procured mainly from departmental
farms under its direct control. With an area of 2,700 ha in 85 Departmental
Farms spread throughout the State, DAFP has produced 3/4,000 tons of seeds
per year, of which 70-80% has been paddy. DAFP also procures seed from farm-
ers, and in abnormal years, when the demand is very heavy, seeds have been
procured from outside the State through the National Seeds Corporation
(Loan No. 1273-IN) and Terai Development Corporation (Bank loan 614-IN).



ANNEX '
Page 5
1.16      Of the total quantity of paddy seed procured from all sources and
distributed for the 1975 kharif crop, 38% was supplied from DAFP farms,
42% purchased from cultivators and 20% procured from other agencies. Some
6,000 tons of paddy seed were distributed in 1975/76 - four times the previous
year, due to drought and loss of stock in 1974/75.
1.17      At present there are no proper processing facilities available in
the State under Government control, though one private producer has installed
capacity for 800 tons/year. The Government now has funds for the purchase of
six small processing plants, also with a rated capacity of 800 tons. Two
have already been procured and will be set up in Sambalpur, the main producing
district. The seeds produced in the DAFP farms and procured from State farm-
ers are generally sold uncertified, seed certification for cereals having only
been introduced in the rabi season of 1974/75 on a pilot basis.
1.18      Breeder seed for paddy is obtained from the Central Rice Research
Institute (CRRI) and Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT).
Breeder seed for potato is obtained from Central Potato Research Institute
and for jute from the Central Jute Research Station. Pulse breeder seeds are
produced by DAFP, but arrangements for other crops have yet to be finalized.
Foundation seed production, of crops for which breeder seeds are available,
has been started by DAFP but there are no facilities for proper processing,
bagging, etc., and seed testing facilities are also inadequate.
1.19      For paddy, suitable varieties for both rainfed and irrigated con-
ditions, developed both at CRRI and OUAT and adapted to conditions in Orissa,
are available. Already about 75% of the irrigated rabi rice crop is under
improved HYV varieties. On the other hand, in the kharif season only about
5% of the land is under improved varieties. However, the main reason for
slow uptake is failure to demonstrate to farmers that improved varieties, for
both gall midge resistance and tolerance of varying water levels, are avail-
able. Support to the further development of suitable varieties will be given
through the research component (Annex 4) but enough suitable varieties are
already available to warrant gearing up the supply system.
1.20      Distribution.  Distribution of improved seeds is presently organized
through Block headquarters. Block Development Officers (BDO) in consultation
with Village Level Workers (VLW) present an indent to the District Agricul-
tural Officer (DAO) who is responsible for organizing production on the dis-
trict seed farm and arranging for procurement of supplies through Bhubaneswar
(Seeds are sold from Block headquarters or distributed direct by VLW).
Improved seeds multiplied up by farmers, but not subject to any government
control, are also distributed through interchange between farmers, often on
a barter basis.
1.21      To provide for better seed distribution in Orissa, the National
Seeds Corporation has started to build up a network of distributors in the
State and has already establfshed 150 private dealers. Under the all-India
Programme, it is the Corporation's policy to license 4 dealers per block; a
total of 1,256 for Orissa. Both cooperatives & private traders are eligible



ANNEX 8
Page 6
for appointment, provided they are competent to handle the business. The DAO
have been instructed to identify sufficient enterprises to increase the State
coverage to one distributor per block in 1976.
1.22      Pricing.  Certified and uncertified seed prices for paddy, composite
maize and jowar and for wheat are fixed by DAFP, Bhubaneswar. Other prices
are fixed by DAO and allow for full recovery of seed farm costs plus transport
and handling charges. Certified paddy seed prices have been reduced over the
last three years, falling from Rs 207 per quintal in 1974/75 to Rs 200 in
1975/76 and to Rs 150 for 1976/77, compared with a 1976/77 procurement price
for non-seed paddy of Rs 78. Seeds are subsidized to all farmers, the rate
of subsidy in 1975/76 varying from Rs 46.10 per quintal (23%) for paddy to
about 40% for maize and jowar.
Demand and Supply under the Project
1.23      Demand.  Under the project, demand for improved seeds is exn(I(-td
to expand at a faster rate than hitherto, although the initial emphasis will
not be so much on HYV varieties as on improved cultural practices, including
seed treatment and germination testing prior to sowing. Tentative estimates
for uptake of HYV paddy, composite maize, wheat and other seeds have been
made on the basis of package of practice uptake (Annex 2).  Uptake of HYV seed
is expected to be as follows:
76/77  77/78   78/79  79/80    80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84
--------------------Thousand Tons---------------------------
HYV Paddy         1.6      2.4     3.7    5.8        6.9      8.4    10.0    12.0
Wheat             1.2      1.4      1.7    2.0       2.2      2.4     2.6      2.8
Maize             0.1      0.1      0.1    0.1       0.2      0.2     0.3      0.4
Other foodgrains
and pulses       0.1      0.1     0.1    0.2        0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4
Oilseeds          0.9      0.9     1.2    1.5        1.8      2.1     2.3      2.5
1.24      Supply.  Orissa is expected to participate under a later phase of
the GOI/Bank assisted National Seeds Program, seed production under the Orissa
State Seeds Corporation (SSC) could begin in rabi season 1977/78. The proposed
SSC would handle only paddy, pulses and potatoes; any requirements of seeds
not covered by its own output would be procured through the National Seed
Corporation.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
D. Farm Chemicals
Present Situation
1.25      Much of the technical material for farm chemicals is imported, hut
the product formulation takes place mainly within the country. Indian manu-
facturers and formulators include private, cooperative and state companies,
each with its own dealer organization. There are seven formulators in Orissa,
furnishing a small part of the State's total supplies. In India, as a whole,
however, there is excess capacity and there should be no difficulty in meeting
prospective Orissa demand. Wholesale and retail prices of pesticides and
herbicides are fixed by the manufacturers, in agreement with GOI.
1.26      In Orissa, pesticides and insecticides are sold through private
dealers, who also handle fertilizer, and through cooperatives. To encourage
use of chemicals by small and marginal farmers, GOO makes handsprayers avail-
able to them at subsidies of 25% and 33-1/3% respectively.
Demand and Supply under the Project
1.27      Demand.  Under the project, demand for pesticides and insecticidles
is expected to expand quite rapidly, with the emphasis that will be given to
seed treatment and general crop protection. Expenditure is expected to in-
crease to about Rs 60 M by 1979/80 and Rs 120 M by 1983/84, with cooperatives
and private dealers sharing the market about equally.
II. The Agricultural Cooperative System
A. Present Situation
Overall Structure
2.01      The sector of the agricultural cooperative system concerned with
input distribution and( the marketing and processing of agricultural products,
has a three-tier structure:  The Orissa State Cooperative Marketing Society
(OSCMS) - the Apex Society; 59 Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies (RCMS);
and 3,352 Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS).  Input distribution is closely
linked to provision of institutional short term credit (Annex 10). GOO
guides and controls the operatLon and development of the cooperative movement
through the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) and his staFF, respon-
sible to the Secretary for Agriculture and t.C>)peration.
Role of National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
2.02      Financial assistance and advice to the Cooperatives, particularly
in the construction of storage facilities and provision of trarisp,)rt, have



ANNEX 8
Page 8
been given by the National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC).
Founded in 1962 and financed by GOI and GOI guaranteed bonds, NCDC engages
throughout India in the planning and promotion of cooperative programs for
production, processing, marketing, storage, export and import of agricultural
produce and notified commodities.
2.03      For cooperative storage, NCDC provides State Governments with
75% of the approved cost, 50% as a loan (currently over 14 years @8% with
three years' grace) and 25% as a grant. The State Government, in turn,
passes on the funds either as share capital directly or as a loan and grant
through the Central Cooperative Bank to the participating cooperative. In
Orissa, GOO passes on the funds as share capital and provides the balance of
25% also as share capital.   NCDC issues detailed guidelines for construction
and the Registrar of Cooperatives, through the Central Cooperative Banks,
supervises construction and disbursement on behalf of the State Government.
For RCMS vehicles, the arrangements are generally similar except that there
are no grants for vehicles (except in Tribal areas) and the RCMS must raise
the remaining 50% (25% in Tribal areas) from its own or borrowed funds.
B. Strengthening of the Cooperative Distribution System
2.04      To achieve the full potential of project benefits, input supplies
must be readily available to farmers who will need them to respond to the more
advanced extension recommendations (see Annex 2). The necessary fertilizers,
chemicals and seeds will be available within the country, but the capacity and
efficiency of the distribution systems within the State are lacking. They
will need to be built up. One view is that farmer demand, following extension
recommendations, would bring pressure to bear on GOO and the cooperative
system to provide the necessary inputs; they may be so in the early years of
the project, but it is equally likely, and a risk to be avoided, that if no
action is taken, farmers would ultimately be frustrated by lack of inputs and
at least part of project potential benefit would be in jeopardy.
2.05      Assistance to cooperative distribution would need to cover:
-    construction of additional storage for primary
cooperative societies (PCS).
-    construction of additional storage and provision of
trucks for regional marketing societies (RCMS).
-    provision of additional training for RCMS and PCS staff.
The additional storage and trucks will be provided under a separate all-India
cooperative project which is being prepared by NCDC. The training will be
supported under the present project.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
III. Fertilizer Prices and Distribution Margins
Background
3.01      For all practical purposes the Government of India (GOI) controls
fertilizer prices. It exercises statutory control over the prices of urea,
ammonium sulphate and calcium ammonium nitrate. Phosphatic fertilizers are
not subject to this control, but since GOI recently granted a subsidy of
Rs 1,250 per ton of P205 to the manufacturers they, in turn, undertook not
to change their prices without GOI consent. For all imported fertilizers,
the Central Fertilizer Pool establishes a ceiling selling price to cul-
tivators, known as the "Pool Price." For all other fertilizers, princi-
pally compounds, prices are, in principle, not controlled. In order to be
competitive on a nutrient basis with fertilizers that have fixed prices,
however, the price freedom of local manufacturers is limited.
3.02      Since it is necessary to maintain a parity between the selling
prices of imported and domestically manufactured fertilizers, government
controlled prices are intended to reflect, not only the production costs of
the local industry, but also an equalization factor to arrive at a "pool"
price for both local and imported supplies GOI price policy also takes account
of demand factors and attempts to prevent prices becoming excessively high.
The declared pricing policy of the Pool, however, has been one of no profit
and no loss. In fact, until the rapid rise in international fertilizer prices
in 1974, the pool made a profit; but at the peak of international prices the
government subsidy on, for example, imported urea amounted to nearly Rs 2,000
per ton. Another example of this intervention is the reduction in prices of
superphosphates and potash fertilizers in December 1975 to give a special
boost to consumption of these products. The reduction in the price of single
superphosphate was achieved through a reduction in the excise duty from 15 to
7.5%, and maintained through the introduction in March 1976 of the subsidy of
Rs 1,250 per ton P205 (Rs 200 per ton SSP), as mentioned in para 3.01.
3.03      Fertilizers are substantially taxed.  There is a central excise tax
of 7.5% on superphosphates and 15% on all other fertilizers. A Central Sales
Tax of 4% is levied on fertilizers purchased interstate, and a further retail
sales tax is charged, varying from state to state. In Orissa it is 6%. There
is also a small local road tax (octroi), usually about 1%, on fertilizers
carried into a municipal area. The excise duty is included in the fixed re-
tail price of fertilizer; the central and state sales taxes are in addition to
it. Some locally produced fertilizers are also charged a pool equalization fee
by the government to arrive at the pool price (para 3.02). For urea this is
at present Rs 165 per ton. The different levies and charges by GOI, the
Government of Orissa (GOO) and municipalities can therefore add up to about
35% of the retail price for a fertilizer like urea at the present time.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
3.04      In order to fix a ceiling retail price, GOI calculates the equated
Free on Rail (FOR) Destination cost for all fertilizers it controls and makes
an allowance for the average distribution costs, or margin, from the railhead
to the farmer. The theoretical breakdown of this margin for urea, as recom-
mended by various committees between 1965 and 1976, is shown in Table 1 which
shows that, though the urea ceiling price more than doubled, as did most
costs, the margin increased relatively little.
3.05      A fixed fertilizer distribution margin creates problems and dis-
incentives at the wholesale and retail levels of the fertilizer distribution
system. These disincentives are aggravated if the distribution margin is
inadequate. Both Cooperative and private wholesalers and retailers complain
that the fertilizer margin is too low and the profit made on fertilizers not
attractive. The Orissa State Cooperative Marketing Society actually showed a
loss on its fertilizer operations in 1974/75. Since the dealer's enthusiasm
for selling fertilizers is an important force in promoting increased fertilizer
use, his complaints about the profitability of this business should not be
neglected. The major problems connected with the present distribution margins
and a few realistic solutions to them are shown below:



ANNEX 8
Page 11
Problems with Present Distribution Margin
Disincentive for   Disincentive    Little private and no
1/   cooperative incentive
Possible solutions-  transportation    to keep stocks         to promote sales
(1)                 (2)                  (3)
1. Allow all prices
to move freely          X                    X                   X
2.  Subsidize transport    X
3.  Allow retail price
plus transport          X
4. Equalize price
beyond railhead
(e.g., block,
wholesale store etc.)  X
5. From Government
(a)  subsidize stocks                       X
From Manufacturers/Pool,
grant
(a) interest free credit
,(deferred payment)                      x
(b) off-season rebates                      X
6. Increase commission to
private                                                          X
7. Give commission to
cooperative salemen                                              X
1/ X indicates which problems items I to 7 would help to solve.
Transportation
3.06      In Orissa the bulk of private fertilizer dealers are clustered
around the railheads and few serve-the farmers in more distant areas. The
apparent unwillingness of fertilizer dealers to incur more than minor trans-
portation costs is a direct result of the fixed margin and the ceiling on
retail prices. The higher the transportation cost, the more the dealer has to
take out of his profits from the fixed margin. The total transport allowance



ANNEX 8
Page 12
in the present urea margin, for example, is Rs 9.20. At present freight
rates, this is only enough to move fertilizers of about 20 km. Though some
dealers might be prepared to accept a somewhat reduced profit and move fer-
tilizers further to meet (or avoid) competition, the margin does not allow
them to move very far before the profit is reduced to zero. This makes it
difficult for farmers in remote areas to obtain fertilizers and certainly
does not promote their use.
3.07      As shown above, one solution would be to allow free pricing of
fertilizers at all levels. However, so long as India continues to run a
deficit in fertilizers, expected to last into the 1980's for nitrogen, there
may not be enough competition between local manufacturers and distributors to
assure competitive pricing, Conversely, if low cost imports were allowed to
compete freely with locally produced fertilizers, then the high cost domestic
manufacturers would not always be able to compete. A consequent substitution
of imported for locally manufactured fertilizer would lead to an economic loss
for India. It is therefore not realistic to assume that GOI would accept free
pricing for all fertilizers.
3.08      The second possible solution would be for government to subsidize
fertilizer transportation to distant areas. This is already done to some
extent. In Orissa, in 1975/76, transportation to tribal areas was subsidized.
A new request for such subsidies has been made for 1976/77. Widespread adop-
tion of this policy is not very attractive, however, for several reasons:
it is difficult and costly to administer, it invites fraudulence and it is
expensive.
3.09      The best solution is to exclude the allowance for transport in the
fixed margin and allow the dealer to charge the statutory retail price plus
his costs for transportation from the railhead to his delivery point. To
avoid unnecessary handling, and provide an incentive for cost savings in the
distribution system, the handling allowance should be kept in the fixed margin.
Although this would make fertilizers marginally (maybe up to 5%) more expensive
to remote farmers, at least it would make them available which often, now, they
are not. In fact, in certain places in India (e.g., Mysore), an addition for
transportation is already made. The way of legally getting around the inter-
diction to exceed the ceiling price is to bill transportation on a separate
invoice. GOO should investigate the possibility of a legal introduction of
such a scheme, in anticipation of a GOI change in its policy on fertilizer
margins.
3.10      A control is not necessary on the amounts charged for transportation
if the dealer is required to display the amount he bills in the same way he
displays the fertilizer prices. Competition would then help to keep transport-
ation charges to a minimum. Should this be unacceptable to the government,
the transportation cost that the dealer is allowed to bill could be annually
fixed, based on actual costs, when the dealer renews his license and he should
be required to publicly reveal what it is. All dealers in one location would
thereby charge the same amount for transportation.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
3.11      In order not to penalize distant areas, fertilizer rail-transporta-
tion costs in India are now pooled to give a uniform FOR wholesaler's.des-
tination price. This could be improved upon by pooling all transportation
costs to give a uniform price for fertilizer delivered to wholesalers. This
would allow dealers and farmers far from a railway to buy fertilizers from
wholesalers at a price similar to that close to a railway station. The Indian
Railway has indicated that the only way to meet the rapidly increasing trans-
portation requirement for fertilizers in the future would be through "single
or very limited destination single directional block rate movement." This
would considerably reduce the number of rail destinations and therefore make
a pooling of fertilizer transportation costs to the wholesaler's store even
more necessary. Such a scheme would be beneficial, whether or not dealers are
allowed to charge transportation costs in addition to the fixed ceiling price.
Under the present fixed margin system, it would allow wholesalers and retailers
to move closer to' "distant" areas and reduce'the need for government trans-
portation subsidies. The combined introduction of a price equalization to
the wholesaler's store and of a surcharge for transportation would allow the
retailer to move even farther into "distant" areas and further reduce the
need for government subsidies. The introduction of both schemes is therefore
recommended.
Storage
3.12      The fixed margin, together with the lack of off-season rebates
makes the efficient fertilizer distributor turn over his stock as-quickly
as possible. He stringently avoids storing for longer than he has to, and
place orders with manufacturers only just before the fertilizer season, which
puts an unnecessary strain on the distribution system and often results in
fertilizer arriving too late at its destination. In planning fertilizer
requirements, GOI now includes a provision of 15% of forecast consumption as
a buffer stock and 10% as a pipeline requirement. Moreover, to assure the
timely supply of imported fertilizer, plans have to be made for early arrivals.
All this will result in larger fertilizer stocks at the central level (pool,
manufacturers). As a result, GOI recently issued directives to the cooper-
atives to store six months of their requirements, but provided no extra
incentive for them to do so.
3.13      It is important that there be sufficie:it incentive down the distri-
bution chain to encourage early orders for stocks. The Fertilizer Corporation
of India (FCI) recently introduced such an incentive by providing interest free
credit, two months for cooperatives and one month for private dealers. How-
ever, though thi.s allows the dealer to keep a stock for one or two months
without cost, he can still enjoy free credit without increased stocking and has
no direct incentive to hold more than he can dispose of within this time. Off-
season rebates would more positively encourage early ordering and get locally
produced fertilizers away from the factories down the distribution channels
into dealers' stocks; similar arrangements could be made for pool fertilizer.
This would be preferable to government subsidies to cooperatives for early
stocking and is the recommended solution. However, any compensation for



ANNEX 8
Page 14
storage should be related to the amount of fertilizer handled and not a
support to the budget, the deficit on which is related to all activities of
the cooperative.
3.14      The amount of the off-season rebate discount clearly must be large
enough to cover storage, including capital, costs. In Orissa, the cost per
ton/month of renting stores is reported to be Rs 2.60 at the Central Ware-
housing Company and Rs 2.80 at the State Warehousing Company. With an interest
rate of 14.5%, the approximate monthly rebate necessary to cover storage costs
would be about Rs 25 for urea (1.3% of the retail price) and Rs 15 for ammonium
sulphate (1.6% of the retail price). By comparison, the average seasonal dis-
count offered in many European countries is between 1.0-1.5% per month for
fertilizer ordered earlier than the period of application. The discounts
should be passed on through the distribution chain down to the farmer, thus
reducing the need for large warehouses at the wholesale and retail level.
Adequate off-season rebates are therefore the recommended answer to encourage-
ment of stock holding.
Dealer Incentive and Size of the Margin
3.15      The role of the well-motivated dealer in promoting fertilizer use
is crucial. Comparative studies of fertilizer distribution in a large number
of countries, undertaken by the OECD and the FAO, stress the need for adequate
money incentive to dealers and its importance for the promotion of fertilizer
use among farmers. 1/ The fertilizer margin in India, particularly in Orissa,
clearly does not provide the required incentive. The recommendations above
would correct some of the imperfections to the present fixed margin. The ques-
tion, however, remains: what size of margin would give the required incentive
to dealers, keeping in mind that, except for a reduction in taxes, any increase
in margin would increase farm-gate price. If demand for fertilizers is price
elastic, then there clearly is a trade-off between increased dealer enthusiasm
and promotion and reduced farmer demand. Theoretically there should be an
optimum; but practically, the size of the incentive required remains a matter
of judgement.
Recommendations
3.16      Recommendations on the size of the distribution margin for urea
and ammonium sulphate are presented in Table 2. The assumptions are shown in
the table, and margins for all other fertilizers could readily be calculated,
using the same assumptions. As can be seen, an increase of the cooperative
urea margin from Rs 115 to Rs 190, and of the private urea margin from Rs 100
to Rs 150, is recommended. Actual transportation costs would be charged
separately and additionally. The new margins amount to 11% and 9% respective-
ly of the FOR destination price. The basis for the estimates is detailed
below.
1/   Eric 0 de Guia, A Comparative Study of Fertilizer Distribution Systems,
Development Centre Studies, OECD Paris 1972, and FAO Fertilizer Industry
Advisory Committee, The Scope for Improving Fertilizer Marketing and
Credit Systems in Developing Countries, Rome 1974.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
3.17      For storage costs, the average rate reported for the State and
Central Warehousing Corporations, Rs 2.80 ton month, was used. Because of
a government directive to cooperatives to store six months of their require-
ments, it was assumed that each ton would be stored for six months, as all
committees on fertilizer margins had recommended earlier. For private trade,
a storage allowance for three months should be sufficient. To the extent that
it is desirable that fertilizer be purchased by the distributors well in
advance of the season, off-season rebates should be offfered, as in para
3.14.
3.18      Reported loading and unloading costs varied from Rs 1 to Rs 3.5/
ton. Rs 2 was a commonly reported figure, and has been taken as typical.
The number of such handlings usually varies from three to five, depending
on whether the retailer picks up directly at railroad or at wholesaler's
store; four was taken as the average. Four months, interest is taken into
account for cooperatives, the remaining two months being financed through
suppliers' interest free credit. Three months' interest is taken into ac-
count for the private trade (para 3.17). The prevailing interest rate is
about 14.5% per annum. Losses of only 1% have been allowed, for though
cooperatives claim about 2%.
3.19      All Government Committees which have made recommendations on fer-
tilizer margins, have allowed 1% commission to the wholesaler and 2.5% to the
retailer. GOI accepted these margins earlier when fertilizer prices were lower,
but fixed them on a lower price basis and failed to increase them pari passu
with the increase in fertilizer prices (and other costs). The result is that
the distributor now must put up about twice as much capital to earn the same
amount from fertilizer trade as before. It is generally accepted that there
is a relationship between capital investment and risk-taking on the one hand,
and profit on the other. The margin allowed for commission is now too small,
based on pre-1973 prices, to allow for a dynamic distribution and to induce
promotional effort. Although Indian fertilizer manufacturers spend some funds
on promotion of farmer fertilizer use, for reasons of goodwill, no major
promotional effort can be expected as long as India runs a deficit in ferti-
lizers and manufacturers are assured of sales.
3.20      Based on recent (1974/75) increases in fertilizer prices, a whole-
sale commission of 1% and a retail commission of 2.5% would be more acceptable,
especically if actual transport costs were substitute for a fixed sum. At
present prices, the small distributor in distant areas would be given a
better chance of survival, on the same percentage commission, since fertilizer
price increases generally have also increased monetary turnover. The alloca-
tion of only a total 3.5 percent in commission, to distributors is acceptable,
and it is strongly recommended that GOI allows 3.5% in commission as it did
earlier; but on the actual, not an assumed lower price, to allow for monetary
costs. In the overall worldwide fertilizer shortage that prevailed in recent
years, it was understandable that GOI did not feel it was necessary to promote
the use of fertilizer and was more concerned about keeping the price down.
Now, however, in 1976 fertilizers are again coming into ample supply worldwide
and it is demand that needs stimulation.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
3.21      The distribution of the commission between the Apex, RCMS and SCS
in Table 2 is roughly according to present practice. The final split should
be left to the cooperatives themselves.
3.22      An extra incentive commission is worth considering for those ac-
tually responsible for the sale of fertilizers in the cooperative sector, at
farm level - generally the secretary of the primary cooperative. Data, from
past trials in India, verifies that the introduction of a special commission
per bag sold has increased cooperative retail sales effort. At present,
the poorly paid secretary often leaves his store to mind other more profitable
businesses, and the farmer, who may have travelled a long way to buy his
fertilizer, often finds the store closed. To induce a more active sales
effort, it is proposed that the secretary be paid 50 paisas (Rs 0.50) per bag
of urea (50 kg) or ammonium sulphate (100 kg) he sells. To avoid too strong
promotion of low grade fertilizer, the incentive commission for other fertiliz-
er materials should be related on a nutrient basis. The secretaries could be
told that such a scheme would be introduced on a trial basis and discontinued
if not successful.
The Case for Increased Margins
3.23      The case for increasing fertilizer margins in India is strong.
International comparisons are difficult, but India's are among the lowest
fertilizer margins in the world.  Out of 24 countries for which data is
available, India ranks fourth lowest for retail, wholesale and total margins,
excluding transport costs.  If transport costs are included, India has the
lowest margin of all countries compared. If costs of transportation are ex-
cluded, India's marketing margin, taking the more favorable figures for the
cooperative sector, is 6% and 7% of retail prices for urea and ammonium
sulphate respectively. The average percentage for the 22 countries studied,
is 15 and the median 13.5. The proposed new margins, 11% for urea and 9%
for ammonium sulphate, would still keep India well below these two averages.
The argument for increased margins is reinforced by the economic fact that,
should they be too high, competition will tend to result in discounts from
the retail price. This happens already near railheads where turnover is high
and retailers sell below ceiling prices to meet hard competition. They can
do this through savings in transport costs with full loads over short dis-
tances and by picking up fertilizer directly from the railhead.
3.24      If GOI desires to avoid the increase in retail prices that would
result from increased margins, small though such price increase would be,
this could be done by a reduction in the pool equalization charge, which is
still levied on domestically manufactured fertilizers, even though they are
now more expensive ex-factory than imported fertilizers ex-ship. Thus the
Rs 75 and Rs 50 increase proposed for the cooperative and private sector urea
margins could be offset by a similar reduction in the pool equalization charge
of Rs 165 on urea.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Recommendations for Distribution Margins for Urea 1965 1975L/
(R-nees/ton inless other-ise stpted)
Existing       Sivaraman       Estimation        Quaraishi                              4/
until         Committee       Committee         Committee                    JulY 1975-/
1965            1965           1967/68          Sept. 1973_/    Private Trade          Cooperatives
A.  Retail Price2V                  615.00         633.50           840.00             970.00           1,750.00              1,750.00
B.  Wholesale Margin                                34.15            41.65             49.93               56.78                 81.93
Transport                                      2.00            2.00               1.85                1.85                  1.85
Handling                                       2.50            2.50               3.50                3.50                  3.50
Storage:-                                      4.00            4.00               5.00                3.00                  5.00
Months                                       (5)             (5)                (5)                 (3)                   (6)
Rs/Month                                    (0.80)          (0.80)             (1.00)              (1.00)                (1.00)
Interest3/                                    11.40           15.25              22.00               28.85                 54.00
Months                                       (3)             (3)                (3)                 (2)                   (4)
X/Year                                       (8)             (8)               (10)                (14)                  (10)
Losses                                         2.85            3.80               8.79                8.79                  8.79
o                                           (0.5)           (0.5)              (1.0)               (0.5)                 (0.5)
Supervision/Publicity etc.                     5.70            6.50                -                   -                     -
Commission                                     5.70            7.60               8.79               10.79                  8.79
C.  Retail Margin                                   29.35            35.35             41.12               43.22                  33.07
Transport                                      8.00            8.00               7.35                7.35                  7.35
Handling                                       2.50            2.50               3.50                3.50                  3.50
Storagle/                                      0.80            0.80               1.00                0.50                  1.00
Months                                       (1)             (1)                (1)                (0.5)
Rs/Month                                    (0.80)          (0.80)             (1.0)               (1.0)
Interes3                                       3.80            5.05               7.30                9.40
Months                                       (1)              (1)               (1)                (0.5)
%/Year                                       (8)             (8)               (10)                (14)
Losses
Commission                                    14.25           19.00              21.97               22.47                 21.22
D.  Total Trade Margin               45.00          63.50            77.00             91.05              100.00                115.00
E. Extra for Cooperatives
Incentive Commission                           2.00            2.00               2.00
Special Incentive
Commission
Special Storage Allowance
Administrative Charges                         1.00            1.00
1/ The breakdowns of the margins are only theoretical and have served as a basis for the Committees' estimates of the total
margins required. The wholesaler and the retailer can in fact split up the margins as they wish.
2/ Retail selling price considered by Committee includes margins but excludes sales and other local taxes.
3/ The Committees only gave one aggregate estimate for wholesaler and retailer storage and interest costs. The breakdown by
the Bank assumes that retailer needs to store one month.
4/ The Quraishi Committee gives no breakdown between wholesaler and retailer except for the commission. The breakdown is by
the Bank assuming same ratios as by previous committees.
5/ The increase in the margin was decided by the Ministry of Agriculture as a result of the increase in the fertilizer price.
On this basis, the Bank has allocated all the increase to increased interest charges. Since the interest charge for
private trade only covered two months plus 30 days credit from the manufacturers, the allocation for storage rental had to
be correspondingly reduced. The difference was added to the allocation for commission. The Ministry of Agriculture has
stated that the interest allowance for cooperatives was for four months which would imply an interest rate of 10% compared
to the actual 14%.  Since the cooperative retailers pay for the fertilizecs only once they sell them, the total financing
allowance is for the wholesale level. The breakdown of the margins into various cost items does in no case reflect the
Bank's view of actual costs, but is an effort to analyze the assumptions used by the committees to make the recommendations
on the implicit or explicit size of the margins.
Sources: GOI, FAI, Shaw Wallace, NCDC and State Cooperative Society in Orissa
Industrial Projects Department
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Proposals for Fertilizer Distribution Margins
(Rupees/ton)
Cooperative Sector                                                                        Private Sector
Urea         AS                                                                     Urea         AS
Price Free on Rail, Wsis for calculation               1,635.00    850.00          Price Free on Rail, Wsis for calculation                 1,650.00   800.00
Total Margin Rounded-                                     190.00    110.00          Total Margin Rounded-                                     150.00      85.00
1,825.00    960.00                                                                  1,800.00    945.00
Basis for Estimate:                                                                Basis for Estimate:
Storage (6 months at Rs 2.70)                           16.20      16.20
Loading/Unloading (average 4 times at Rs 2.0)            8.00       8.00         Wholesale Margin:                                           74.03      43.08
Interest (4 months at 14.5% p.a.)                       79.00      41.00         Storage (2 months at Rs 2.70)                                5.40       5.40
Losses (1%)                                             16.35       8.50         Loading/Unloading (average 2 times at Rs 2.0)                4.00       4.00
Commission (3.5%)                                       57.25      29.75         Interest (2 months at 14.5% p.a.)                           39.88      20.78
Apex (0.5%)                                              (8.15)    (5.95)        Losses (1/2%)                                                8.25       4.30
RCMS (1.0%)                                             (16.30)   (11.90)        Commission (1%)                                             16.50       8.60
SCS (2.0%)                                              (32.80)   (23.80)
Incentive Commission                                    10.00       5.00         Retail Margin                                               76.14      42.89
186.80    108.45         Storage (1 month at Rs 2.70)                                 2.70       2.70
Loading/Unloading (2 times at Rs. 2.0)                      4.00       4.00
Interest (1 month at 14.5% p.a.)                           19.94      10.39
Losses (1/2%)                                                8.25      4.30
Commission (2.5%)                                          41.25      21.50
150.17     85.97.
1/ Transportation costs charged in addition to ceiling retail price.
NOTE:  The only justification for a higher margin to the cooperative sector is that it helps the Government in keeping stocks.                                         X Z
Industrial Projects Department
July 23. 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Records and Land Survey
I. Introduction
A. General
1.01      The overall short term action program (STAP) for development of
foodgrain production in Orissa included rapid expansion of ground water
development, medium and minor surface flow irrigation and a program of command
(irrigation) area development (CAD). A large part of the ground water develop-
ment program, prepared by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corpora-
tion (ARDC) (Annex 6), would be financed in the private sector by cooperative
Land Development Banks and by commercial banks. In granting medium and long-
term loans for irrigation and other development, the financing institution
requires confirmation that the land to be irrigated or developed is owned by
the borrower and not already mortgaged, or encumbered.
1.02      At present, both the granting of loans and command area development,
requiring an accurate record of land holdings, are constrained by:
-    lengthy procedures in the search of records for issuing
non-emcumbrance certificates;
-    outdated land records due to lack of recent survey and, in
some districts, failure to update records as transfers
take place;
-    lack of up-to-date village maps showing ownership of
individual plots.
These constraints stem in part from the historical origin of the State and
the time that has been needed to combine a multiplicity of different land
holding laws.
1.03      The Province of Orissa was formed on 1st April 1936 with territories
taken from the then provinces of Bihar, Orissa and Madras and the Central
Provinces where, in all, three different land revenue, tenancy law, and admin-
istrative systems were in operation. Furthermore, a vast tract, particularly
in the territories that came over from the province of Madras, had not been
subjected to any cadastral survey at any time earlier and no reliable land
records were available. Subsequently, with the merger of 24 feudatory States
during 1948 and 1949, the State of Orissa acquired its present territorial
jurisdiction, with a total area of about 155,000 km and, with it, a further
diversity of laws and systems of land revenue administration. In all there
were some 32 different land tenancy laws at the time of merger. Available
land records were neither uniform nor properly preserved and maintained, and
survey data was in most cases not accurate.



ANNEX 9
Page  2
1.04      After Independence, it became apparent that the extensive survey and
settlement 1/ operations needed, would be very difficult under the prevailing
multiplicity of Tenancy Laws. Accordingly, the Orissa Survey and Settlement
Act was passed in 1958 to unify land record procedures. Survey and settlement
operations are governed by the provisions of this Act and the Orissa Survey
and Settlement Rules, 1962.
B. Basic Land Record
Record of Rights
1.05      The basic land record is the record-of-rights or "patta" record-
ing all land held by the occupant. It shows: (a) name and class of each
tenant and/or occupant; (b) situation and extent of the land held by each
tenant or occupant, and the name of each proprietor or landlord; (c) rent
and charges for irrigation payable by each proprietor, landlord, tenant
or occupant; (d) use and source of water for agricultural purposes and respon-
sibility for the repair and maintenance of works for supply of water for the
cultivation of land held by each proprietor, landlord, tenant or occupant; (e)
special conditions or incidents, if any, of the tenancy; (f) any right of way
or other easement attached to the land; (g) if the land is claimed to be held
rent-free, whether or not rent is actually paid; if not paid, whether or not
the occupant is entitled to hold the land without payment of rent and if so
entitled, under what authority.
1.06      In principle, a land survey operation is conducted approximately
every thirty years to update the land records in the State.  Between such
land survey operations, if transfers of land occur, the copy of the record-of-
rights which is held in the Tahasil, or revenue sub-district office, is
updated by the revenue officer, or Tahasildar. 2/  The other copy is held
by the land owner who, on selling or mortgaging the land, registers the
transfer or mortgage, or any other transaction, e.g. gift to a relative, in
the land registration office and hands over the Ipatta' to the new owner.
Importance of up-to-date Land Records
1.07      Accurate and up-to-date land records are of considerable im-
portance to an overall development program for stepping up agricultural
production in Orissa, particularly for: providing security of tenure to
cultivators; obtaining medium and long term institutional credit; and in
implementing land reforms and development of irrigated areas.
1/   In this case settlement refers to the "Settlement of Tenancies"; that
is settlement of the land revenue that the land holder will pay to the
Government of Orissa as the ultimate owner of the land.
2/   The State is divided into 13 revenue, or administrative districts, and
105 Tahasils.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
1.08      Security of Tenure.  An authentic land record is essential to
protect the rights of cultivators, for which various land reform measures
are being implemented and in particular, to protect the rights of tribal
tenants and the weaker sections of the rural population. Cultivators'
rights are properly secured only when they are recorded in the record-of-
right and these records are used for settlement of all disputes over land.
1.09      Conversion of share-croppers to full ownership.  The records
are also required for share-croppers who, where the holding of the owner
is above 3 standard acres have the right to take over the holding on pay-
ment of five times the fair rent. Since 1965, under the Orissa Land Reforms
Act of 1960, subsequently amended in 1973, some 217,000 have availed of this
opportunity and an estimated further 100,000 share-croppers are eligible.
1.10      Acquisition of land for general infrastructure, irrigated area
development and land consolidation. Up-to-date records are clearly essential
for acquisition of land required in development schemes or in the improvement
of water use in command (irrigated) area development (CAD). The updated
village map, prepared following completion of the survey operation (see para
2.02) provides the basis for land consolidation work. The Land Consolidation
Division in the Department of Revenue and Excise started work in 1973, follow-
ing the passing of "The Orissa Consolidation of Holdings and Prevention of
Fragmentation of Land Act 1972." Surveys are under way in 1,338 villages in
six districts and, by March 1980, it is expected that 400,000 ha will have
been consolidated, mainly in irrigated areas. The complete procedure of
consolidation takes about three years, if the consolidation team also has to
update the land records. If, however, the area has already been surveyed and
land records updated within three years, the lapse time is reduced by six
months.
1.12      Land ceiling law and land for landless families.  Records are
necessary for implementation of the ceiling law for agricultural lands
under which ownership of land is limited to 10 standard acres (18 in the
case of joint families). They are also needed for the identification of
surplus land available for landless families.
1.13      Land Revenue.  As part of the survey operation, the level of
land revenue to be paid annually and the responsibility for it, are de-
termined. As a result of completing the present survey operation, land
revenue assessment is expected to be increased from Rs 14 M to Rs 50 M
per year.
C. Institutions Responsible
1.14      Two separate divisions within the Department of Revenue and Excise
are responsible for: (a) the thirty-year land survey to update records of
rights, and (b) the registration of land transfers and mortgages. Land survey
is the responsibility of the Commissioner, Land Records and Settlement. Regis-
tration is the responsibility of the Inspector-General of (Land) Registration.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
A third division, under another Commissioner, is responsible for implementation
of land reforms and land consolidation works.
II. Land Survey
A. Background
Institution
2.01      The Land Survey Division has a full-time Director responsible to
the Commissioner. Six Settlement Officers are responsible for land records
and settlement work and a Deputy Director for Survey and Map printing. Survey,
record and settlement work is carried out from camps in the area under survey,
each led by an-Assistant Settlement Officer.
Methodology
2.02      Land survey and settlement requires three distinct operations:
-    cadastral survey;
-    preparation of Record-of-Rights;
-    settlement of land revenue.
These operations may be taken up independently or in two or three stages
simultaneously. The village is the basic unit of administration for the
cadastral survey. After detailed plotting, a complete map of the village
is prepared, and the plots numbered serially for the purpose of 'Khanapuri'
that is, preparation of preliminary Record-of-Rights. Subsequently, plots
are checked, tentative land revenue assessed, and records made available for
scrutiny and objection by all concerned. The whole process takes about three
and a half years.
Progress of Work
2.03      A program for intensive operation was started in 1958 to complete
survey and settlement by the end of 1970/71. However, shortage of funds
prevented achievement, and the position on 1st May 1976 was:
No. of villages        Percent
Completed                 22,749                  44
Under Survey               23,324                 45
Not started                 5,836                 11
Total                  51,909                 100



ANNEX 9
Page 5
2.04      It is estimated that Rs 142.5 M (US$15.8 M) would be required to
complete operations by 1983/84.
Amount required
Year                   (Thousand Rupees)
1975/76                      22.2
1976/77                      22.9
1977/78                      23.3
1978/79                      18.0
1979/80                      15.8
1980/81                      17.9
1981/82                      11.5
1983/84)                     10.9
Total                142.5
2.05      Rs 19 M were allocated for 1975/76 and the minimum allocation for
subsequent years was set at Rs 20 M.
B. Project Actions
2.06      In view of the wide importance of updated land records, the project
would support a program to bring forward completion to 1981/82. This would
require an increase in number of working teams (camps) as follows:
No. of camps required for   No. of camps required
completion 1983/84         for completion 1980/81  Additional number
1977/78     243                    412                       169
1978/79      190                   308                       118
1979/80      160                   235                         75
1980/81      158                   119
1981/82     124                    ...
1982/83     118                     ..
Additional Staff Requirements
2.07      Senior and Junior Supervisory Staff.  Existing Senior Supervisory
staff should be able to handle the additional program, but Additional Junior
Supervisory staff below the Survey (Settlement) Officer level would be re-
quired.  Six more officers of the State Administrative Servtio    r            vttid be
required from 1977/78 onwards to work as Charge Officers (camp supervisors) to



ANNEX 9
Page 6
supervise field work and the strength of the Assistant Survey (Settlement)
Officers would need to be increased by 156. This would be met by promotion
within the organization and deputation from State Administration Cadres.
2.08      Technical and Field Staff.  There should be no difficulty in securing
the services of additional technical staff. Some 6,300 trained hands are
available, of which only 2,900 have been able to find employment under the
Settlement Organization at present. About 1,000 have been employed under the
Land Consolidation Division and other Government departments. The 1,500 addi-
tional hands required in 1977/78 and 1978/79 would be found from the balance
of 2,300 unemployed persons. Similarly, there should also be no difficulty
in securing the services of 5,000 unskilled laborers to assist the field staff.
Additional Vehicles and Equipment
2.09      Vehicles.  Six vehicles would be purchased under the project and the
best possible use would be made of the existing 21 vehicles after repairs.
2.10      Equipment and Instruments.  Available survey instruments and camp
equipment are adequate to meet the normal requirements of 260 camps but, with
an increase in the number of camps in 1977/78, additional tents, camping
equipment and tarpaulins, would need to be purchased at a cost of Rs 10,000
for each camp, together with additional survey instruments.
2.11      After winding up the survey operation, staff and operational vehicles
and equipment would be transferred to the Land Consolidation Division.
C. Project Cost
2.12      Detailed cost tables are in Annex 21.
III. Registration of Land Transfers and Mortgages
A. Background
General
3.01      In obtaining medium and long-term institutional credit, the certi-
ficate of freedom from encumbrance has to cover a minimum of 13 years. While
copies of all instruments involving land transactions (mortgage, gift, etc.)
are registered in the Sub-Registration Offices and kept in the Record Rooms of
Registration Offices, year by year, grant of a non-encumbrance certificate for
any plot of land involves search from the Copy Book Registers of 13 years.
This may take up to six days of a clerk's time and the present delay in



ANNEX 9
Page 7
issuing a non-encumbrance certificate is anywhere up to one month. With a
large ground water program to be implemented and a stepping up in the aid to
small and marginal farmers, there is an urgent need to speed things up.
3.02      A fast retrieval system for non-encumbrance certificate involves
two steps: First, modification of the present recording (index) system of
land transfers, mortgages, etc; second, transfer of the details of documents
to a simple card index unit.
Unification of Indexing Procedure
3.03      There are two systems of indexing in the State, one in all districts
except Ganjam and Koraput, and a slightly different system in those two dis-
tricts.
3.04      Unification of indexing under an improved system has been taken up
in all the districts from 1st January 1974. But the purpose of granting
non-encumbrance certificates covering 13 years cannot be served unless the
indexing is completed retrospectively and then a card index system introduced
to speed the search process. About 430,000 land transfers or other land
transactions are registered each year. To cover 13 years thus involves some
5.6 M documents.
Introduction of Improved Card Index System
3.05      An improved card index has been introduced in Dhenkanal district
as a pilot scheme, and is working well. Particulars relating to a registered
document are copied out on cards, by year; these cards are fitted into pockets
and retained in steel trays in a lockable cabinet. With this system it has
been found that time taken in 'search' relating to any plot of land involved
in the transaction for a period of 13 years has been reduced to an hour or
less.
B. Project Actions
3.06      Under the project, funds would be provided to index all previous
land transactions under the Dhenkanal system. Existing staff are fully
occupied with normal work of registration and would not be available for
this additional work. Temporary clerical help would therefore be hired.
Adequate accommodation would be provided together with storage for indexing
equipment and furniture. Before final adoption a consultant, to be recruited
under the project, would examine and report on the Dhenkanal system and
suggest any improvements. Two man-weeks of consultancy are included.
Staff Requirement
3.07      There are adequate numbers of supervisory staff, but additional
temporary clerk copyists would be required for reindexing and transferring
data to the card index system:



ANNisA Y
Page 8
Reindexing. Additional staff would be employed on a piece
work basis to undertake transfer of 5.6 M registrations
(430,000 per year x 13 years) to the index. Two pairs of
copyists can cover about 100 documents a day, so that the
work would require 56,000 days from two pairs of copyists,
or a total of 224,000 mandays.
Transferral to Card Index. For transfer of entries to cards,
one pair of copyists can make about 100 entries a day, so that
5.6 M entries would require 56,000 days from one pair of copy-
ists, or 112,000 mandays in total.
Buildings
3.08      Requirements.  Accommodation in most district registration offices
is inadequate. Shortage of funds has led to documents being retained in other
revenue department buildings and rented accommodation, which does not provide
adequate security or facility. Basic land records are divided between sub-
registration offices of origin and the central record room. New accommodation
is therefore required at three levels:
-    14 record rooms at District Headquarters or
important local centers
-    47 rural record rooms at key towns in each district
-    2 registration offices at Sambalpar and Bolangi,
where quarters are presently shared with other depart-
ments and are wholly inadequate.
3.09      Specifications.  Rural record rooms would be constructed to a
standard specification prepared by the Public Works Department. Size is
24 ft x 18 ft x 14 ft (height) with provision for a later additional storey.
Four iron racks 3 ft x 12 ft x 12 ft with seven shelves, each 20 in wide,
would be provided from floor to ceiling. Record rooms for district head-
quarters would be double the size of rural record rooms.
3.10      Location and Construction.  Buildings would be constructed, on
land allocated by GOO, either under force account by PWD or put out to tender
by contractors according to situation and availability.
3.11      Equipment.  Card index cabinets would be required for retention
of data from about 5.6 M documents. At 10,000 documents per cabinet holding
1,000 cards, and after allowing for the distribution of documents, plus a
15% margin, it is estimated that 646 cabinets would be required. Record room
furniture and stationery required for reindexing would also be required.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
C. Project Cost
3.12      Implementation of the reindexing and subsequent card indexing is
expected to take four years. Detailed cost tables are given in Annex 21.
Attachment:
Appendix 1. Terms of Reference for Indexing System Consultant.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Indexing System Consultant
Introduction
An objective of the Orissa Agricultural Intensification project is
to improve the quality and reliability of land records and modernize the
system for indexing and retrieval of information. In particular, it is pro-
posed to introduce, on a statewide basis, a card indexing system which has
been tried successfully in the District of Dhenkanal. Prior to the implement-
ation of the system statewide, a consultant is to review the system and sug-
gest any improvements.
System Review
The system review would include:
(a) defining the overall objectives of the system;
(b) ascertaining that the objectives are being achieved under
present implementation methods or recommending appropriate
changes to achieve them;
(c) technical evaluation of the system, including, inter alia:
(i) evaluation of procedures for reindexing of existing
land records;
(ii) evaluation of procedures for transferral of land
record data to cards;
(iii) review of data items to be transferred to cards;
recommend possible inclusion or exclusion of data
items;
(iv) adequacy and security of data storage facilities; and
(v) time and cost saving procedures that could lead to
greater system efficiency.
(d) detailed specifications for equipment required.
Duration: Three man-weeks



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
1.        Successful implementation of the Agricultural Intensification Pro-
ject will indirectly depend, to a large degree, on the provision of inputs and
the credit to pay for them. Both ate a function of the extensive cooperative
system and, to some extent, the commercial banks. Input supply is referred to
in Annex 8 and agricultural credit is covered briefly in the following para-
graphs.
2.        The Orissa Fifth Plan (1974/79) relies on the institutional credit
structure to finance the agricultural sector. It places emphasis on:
(a) strengthening credit cooperatives and the commercial
banking network;
(b) reorienting lending activities so as to provide credit,
primarily to small farmers (defined as those with net
income below Rs 2,800); and
(c) remedying the existing regional credit imbalance.
3.        Farmers in Orissa have traditional and institutional sources of credit.
The former provides, through moneylenders and merchants, 82 to 85% of farmers'
requirements. Though costly, it is simple, convenient and time-honored.
4.        Institutional sources presently provide not more than 15 to 18% of
farmers' requirements and only 3% of this comes from commercial banks, though
they are making an effort to increase their exposure to agricultural credit.
The institutional credit structure comprises: the multi-purpose cooperative
societies and cooperative banks, mainly for short-term production credit; the
land development banks, exclusively for medium and long term lending; the
commercial banks, mainly for short-term, but with some medium term lending.
5.        The Cooperative Banks, constituted under the Orissa Cooperative
Societies Act of 1962 (amended up to 1975), have a three-tiered structure:
at the top the apex Orissa State Cooperative Bank (OSCB) at State level; the
Central Cooperative Banks (CCB) at district level (17, with 84 branches);
and the Primary Agricultural Credit Cooperative Societies (PCS) at village
level (3,352). These cooperatives provide only short and medium-term credit
to their members. Short-term production credit (12 months maximum) is in-
tended mainly to finance working capital, the current expenditures in raising
crops such as: wages, power, fuel and water charges. Medium-term credit (2
to 5 years) meets outlay relating to:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(a) replacement and maintenance of existing production
assets, with the view of maintaining the earning
capacity of the farm; and
(b) capital investment designed to increase the output
from land, such as sinking of new wells, rehabili-
tation and improvement of existing wells, installa-
tion of diesel or electric pumps, purchase of farm
machinery, sprayers, draft animals, and land level-
ling.
6.        The State Land Development Bank (SLDB), with eight branches, fi-
nances and supervises its 55 affiliated Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB)
at sub-division level, and provides exclusively long-term loans to farmers.
Annual lending for the normal program approved by the Reserve Bank of India
(Rs 30.4 M in 1974/75) was mainly for wells, pumping sets and water tanks
(about 80%), followed by land reclamation (9%) and construction of warehouses
and cattle sheds (8%). Lending under special ARDC schemes (Rs 5.7 M in
1974/75) was primarily for minor irrigation in 1974/75 (60%) and, for the pre-
vious years, almost equally shared by land reclamation and tree crop planta-
tions. The PLDB are administratively independent, but their lending policy
and criteria are fixed by SLDB, which provides almost all their financial
resources. They made long-term loans of Rs 38.9 M in 1974/75, mainly for
minor irrigation, land development and soil conservation, plantations and
farm mechanization.
7.        The four major commercial banks operate in Orissa through 345
branches (half in rural areas) and provide short, medium and long term loans,
paying particular attention to small farmers' credit requirements. Under the
"Lead Bank" system the State Bank of India has adopted six districts, the
United Commercial Bank four, Bank of India two, and Andhra Bank one. As lead
banks, they are exclusively responsible for commercial bank credit expansion in
their adopted districts. Six commercial banks have also adopted 44 PCS, but
the experience is not satisfactory. Overdues have been high (76% in 1974),
because of:
(a) wilfull tendency of borrowers not to repay;
(b) inadequate coercive action;
(c) natural calamities; and
(d) misappropriation of funds by societies' staff.
8.        Two regional Rural Banks were established under the Regional Rural
Bank Ordinance and sponsored by commercial banks, in 1976 to finance small
farmers and artisans. They are intended to combine the knowledge of rural
problems possessed by cooperative societies, with the commercial organiza-
tion and banking vigor of commercial banks. They were to be set up in



ANNEX 10
Page 3
comparatively backward areas which had a relatively poor coverage by the
cooperative credit system and commercial banks.
9.        A recent development, aimed at introducing better management by
combining smaller multi-purpose societies was the establishment of 43
large-sized Rural Multipurpose Cooperative Societies (LAMPS) providing
package services to farmers in tribal areas. These have been opened
since November 1975; 177 more are phased to be open before 1977. The
main components of the package are: short, medium and long term agricul-
tural credit; consumption credit; supply of agricultural inputs, supply
of consumer goods and marketing of both agricultural and minor forest
produce.
10.       Farmers Service Societies have not yet been established but are
proposed. Intended to provide integrated credit and service to small and
marginal farmers and landless laborers of non-tribal areas, they would be
financed by the cooperative banking system or by commercial banks.
11.       All the sources of institutional credit mentioned above are finan-
cially assisted by GOI, GOO, the Reserve Bank of India and ARDC. The Orissa
Regional Office of ARDC provides medium and long-term resources to SLDB, CCB
and commercial banks for financing, through primary societies, on-farm in-
vestments complying with its approved development schemes. Such schemes
relate to minor (mainly ground water) irrigation, land reclamation and diver-
sified lending such as fruit tree plantations, farm mechanization, dairy and
fisheries. The Reserve Bank of India has statutory control over all banking
institutions, commercial as well as cooperative. It has, particularly, the
responsibility of developing the cooperative banking structure. It has a
special Agricultural Credit Department whose functions are:
(a) to study all matters related to agricultural credit;
(b) to be in consultation with GOI and State Governments;
and
(c) to coordinate Reserve Bank agricultural credit action
and its relations with the cooperative banks system
and other banks engaged in agricultural credit opera-
tion. The Department provides these institutions with
detailed, clear and precise instructions and guidelines
regarding all aspects of agricultural credit criteria,
techniques and lending as well as recovery procedure.
12.       However, despite this widespread State network of PCS, PLDB and
CCB and substantial financial support from the GOI, GOO, the Reserve Bank
of India and ARDC, institutional credit performance has been disappointing.
Causes of concern are:



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(a) unbalanced distribution of PCS, some covering
too small a cropped area to be viable, others
covering areas exceeding their administrative
and lending capacity;
(b) low membership, nowhere exceeding 50% of culti-
vating families;
(c) poor rate of loan recovery, resulting in heavy
overdues and subsequent restrictions on CCB
and PLDB borrowing from the Reserve Bank of
India or ARDC;
(d) managerial weakness due to insufficient profes-
sional expertise of most of administrative staff
and inadequate number of technical officers;
(e) unsatisfactory financial situation and poor annual
results; and
(f) lengthy administrative formalities.
13.       To remedy this situation, measures have been recommended by the
Study Team on Institutional Credit Arrangements (August 1975) and the ARDC
Banking Plan Team (January 1976). These teams urge GOO to implement a plan
which has been drawn up to redistribute PCS. Rehabilitation of weak CCB
progresses satisfactorily and the teams have suggested this be continued
for other potentially viable units. Other principal recommendations of
the teams relate to:
(a) recovery of overdues; deposit mobilization; organi-
zation of a training program for key personnel of
the PCS, PLDB and CCB; reactivation of CCB and SLDB
crash programs; reinforcement of the number of in-
spectors, supervisors and technical units at CCB,
PLDB; and
(b) steps to be taken by commercial banks to increase
their involvement in agricultural credit; and by
GOO to facilitate the extension of commercial bank
branches in rural areas.
14.       The recommendations and steps suggested by the Reserve Bank/ARDC
study teams correctly reflect the weakness of institutional credit in Orissa
and underline the essential measures to remedy it. Unfortunately, the re-
commendations are not new; they have been made many times. What is needed,
and not only in Orissa, is positive action to implement the recommendations
made.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
15.       The elimination of overdues must have absolute priority.  An
implementation procedure must be laid down without delay, a tactical plan
prepared for collection of current loans must be elaborated and clear
instructions be sent to PCS and PLDB. Emphasis must be put on keeping
borrowers under permanent supervision. Simple and effective ways of making
advances on stored crops are also desirable so that farmers are under less
pressure to sell crops on a weak market to repay loans on time. However,
the management of cooperatives involved would need to be strengthened to
take on this new responsibility.
16.       Proper provisions have to be made in order to improve the accuracy
and reliability of appraisal and supervision of loan projects throughout
their lives so as to avoid the recurrence of overdues.
17.       Staff training takes priority second only to overdues recovery
in the implementation of the strengthening measures. A training program
must be laid down and implemented as soon as possible. It must be applied
to all officers having administrative or technical responsibility. Courses
would cover administrative, financial and technical features of cooperatives
credit societies, banking business and fund management.
18.       Lending procedures are expected to be streamlined, once PCS, PLDB
and CCB staff are adequately trained. Meanwhile, intensive inspection and
systematic detection of procedural weaknesses must contribute to removing
the causes of delay. Improvement of the CCB financial position will enable
defaulters to again be eligible for interim credit and therefore eliminate
another cause of delay. CCB branch managers should be allowed to sanction
loans up to Rs 5,000. Simplified procedures should be applied to short-
term borrowers with good repayment records. CCB should be authorized to
open interim credit to PCS in good financial position.
19.       The institutional credit structure of Orissa, once strengthened
in financial and managerial capacity, would be in a position fully to use
its high operating potential and play its role of key financing instrument
for the agricultural development of the State.
Attachments:
Figure 1. Organization of Cooperatives 16370
2. Organization of the State Cooperative Department 16272
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 10
Figure 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Cooperatives
C   Registrar of B
Cooperatives
Orissa Stte                   r ssa tate Cooperatir iOrissaStattCCooperative
|Coorperative Bank    |      Land DevelopmentMarketingFederaionCooperative Federation
/  | Divisional Deputy l    W       e
Registrar                                                            58
Central Cooperative Se  Bank         S                                         Stsona Cooperative
l Headquarters Branch                                                                                    Maketirng Society
.8|                              ARCS         l
Central CooperativC                                CopRativE
Branch                                                                                           W     B
l  /                                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~Orissa State Consumer 
.   .                                        |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cooperative Federation|
55                                        53
[rimary Agricult url   |Primary l and Development |Primary Consumer ||Primasry Agricultural|
| Cooperative So itis    L Bank Society            l|Stores                                  ||Cooperative Societies|
KEY
ARCS               Assistant Registrar of Cooperatives
JULY 1976                                                                                      World Bank-16370



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 10
Organization Chart                                                                          Figure  2
of the State Cooperative Department
Registrar,
Cooperative
Societies
IAdditio0nal Reitrr
eCooperatie  SocSeties
|Joint Registrar, cooperative  Joint Registrar, Cooperativel  Joint Reit,Coeratie
Societies lAudit)          Societies IMlarketing)      Soieties (Consumersi
IDeputy Registrar         Deputy Registrar,  |        |Deputy Registrar,   ||Deputy Registrars, Coorpera-   Deputy Reg strar, C Jrpera-l
(Cronsuer)tv Scieis        (Regulated Market) |         Croedaiv Soieis    tive Societies (Credit)          tive Societies (ong" T0erm
Deputy Registrar,
Cooperat ive Societies
(Marketing)
SANCTIONED STRENGTH OF GAZETTED OFFICERS OF CO-OP DEPT.
J.R.C.S.                 D.R.C.S.             A.R.C.S.          A.D.C,S.
47    \ /        16
SANCTIONED    -   3                          13                             63
DEPUTATION    -   2                          16                             52
VACANT               -                      --                              13
TOTAL  _       _        5                    29                            102
[Divisional Deputy Regsr|
CCooperative Societiesoaein o a
|    31                                7                                                     16
ten s  sistan t Registrar, O r  Ext n Officer,
Coop~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erative  Societies  l . -......................................
_  o Wegistrarl 9e|~~~~~j Junior Inspector,                                 C.
SARCS  _______359
SICS    _ _ _ _ _ _   __561
JICS    _ _ _ _ _ _   __4083
CEO _________314 + LR.16 = 330
ADDL  CEO  _ ____129 (COOP. BUDGET- 69 + AGRL. EUDGET -60)
A       Audit              CEO  =  Cooperative               RCS         =Registrar, Cooperative Societies             SARCS          = SubAssistant
vl    =  Marketing                  Extension Officer       Addi. RCS  =  Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies                    Registrar, CooPerative
Consumers        Add.  CEO   Additional           JRCS         =Joint Registrar, Cooperative Societies                         Soceties
'R =  Credit                         Cooperative         DRCS         =  Deputy Registrar. Cooperative Societies    SICS           =Senior Inspector,
_C=   Long Term Credit            Extension Officer    ARCS        = Assistant Ceigstrar Cooperative Societies                     Cooperative Societes
QM =Regulated Market                                    AOCS        = Audit Officer, Cooperative Societies        JICS            =Junior Inspector,
Cooperative Societies
World Bank-t6272



ANNEX11
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Training
I. BACKGROUND
The Department of Cooperatives
1.01     The Orissa Department of Cooperatives is responsible for implementing
government policies and programs affecting the cooperative movement, administering
government assistance to the movement, and supervising the operations and
financial management of the cooperative societies in accordance with existing
legislation. Under a Registrar of Cooperatives, who reports to the Secretary
for Agriculture and Cooperation, and a number of deputy registrars, the
Department employs the following staffs
75 assistant registrars
164 sub-assistant registrars
318 senior inspectors
144 junior inspectors
A number of these are seconded to Agricultural Cooperatives.
Agricultural Cooperatives
1.02     The Agricultural Cooperatives comprise:
The Orissa State Cooperative Marketing Society;
59 Regional Cooperative Marketing Societies, and
3324 Service (Primary) Cooperative Societies.
1.03     The State Cooperative Marketing Society - the apex of all the agricultural
marketing cooperatives in Orissa - has the nominal functions of:
- procurement and distribution of fertilizers, farm chemicals and
equipment;
- procurement and milling of paddy (as an agent of the Government);
- marketing of other agricultural crops;
- processing of rice bran for oil extraction;
- mixing of fertilizers and formulation of farm chemicals, and
- procurement and distribution of cement.
These activities are in fact carried out by the 59 Regional Cooperative Marketing
Societies which are affiliated to the State Society. Of these functions, the
handling of fertilizers is the most important and in 1974/75, Regional Societies



ANNEX 11
Page 2
handled about 60% of all fertilizer sales in the State.
1.04     The Primary Cooperative Societies (PCS) have a recorded membership
of 1,728,000 (44% of the total number of farmers in the State), and their main
activities are to channel credit in cash and kind to their members from the
Central Cooperative Banks (see Annex 10) and distribute fertilizer to members
and non-members. In addition, a number of PCS have begun providing a savings
service to their members; they are increasing the range of farm inputs they
handle, and many distribute consumer goods - particularly controlled cloth.
It is intended that the PCS should also become involved in crop storage and
marketing, and that their managerial capacity be strengthened and their physical
facilities expanded to enable them to fulfill this larger role.
1.05     The average PCS has only 520 members and handles less than 40 tons of
fertilizers. A large number of societies are below this average, and
consequently have insufficient turnover, suffer from lack of funds and weak
management. This forms a vicious circle as, without funds, they cannot pay a
more able secretary which, in most cases, is their greatest need in order to
increase their membership and strengthen their business. Attention needs to
be focused, therefore, on the training of PCS secretaries to increase their
operational effectiveness and enable PCS to cope with a rapid growth in farmer
demand for the services which they should be able to offer and which the project
is expected to generate.
Training Facilities
1.06     The cooperative movement has three training institutions,
all housed in rented accommodation, comprising a Cooperative
Training College in Bhubaneswar for senior staff, and two Cooperative Training
Centers, one at Gopalpur and one at Bargarh, where PCS secretaries and cooperative
supervisors and inspectors are trained.   In addition to the staff of the
Department of Cooperatives and of the Agricultural Cooperatives described above
(numbering about 5,300), there is a total of about 4,900 staff of other sections
of the cooperative movement most of whom would normally receive some or all of
their training at the three existing training institutions,
1.07     The cooperative movement has grown rapidly in recent years and new
responsibilities continue to be assigned to it resulting in a constant need for
in-service and up-grading training. Furthermore, the development of business
and industry in Orissa creates a demand for trained managers, book-keepers, auditors
and accounting staff which syphons off numbers of the trained staff from the
cooperative movement. Thus, the training institutions must cater for a relatively
high staff wastage rate in addition to in-service training and up-grading needs;
but the present training institutions are grossly inadequate for the training
function now demanded of them.
1.08     In addition to the need to improve the existing training facilities, there
is a need to decentralize much of the training of junior staff and increase the
in-service training performed by supervisory staff. There are at present 17
Central Cooperative Banks (CCB) in Orissa (see Annex 10) employing 373 supervisors
who are concerned chiefly with the distribution and collection of credit, most of



ANNEX11
Page 3
which is channelled through PCS. The supervisors provide guidance to PCS
secretaries, who are responsible to the CCB for proper credit accounting.
However, at present, much reliance is placed on rigid formal procedures and
the secretaries receive very little instruction from the CCB staff (or from the
inspectors of the Cooperatives Department who are assigned to CCB). Yet it is
at this level where very effective on-the-job training could be carried out.
Responsibility for Training Activities
1.09    The meed for the training of staff within the cooperative movement is very
substantial and will involve the up-grading of facilities, the training of instructors,
the development of curricula, and the overcoming of considerable logistical problems
arising from the large numbers to be trained. While the Registrar has overall
responsibility for staff training policy, there is no specialized unit within the
Department of Cooperatives upon which responsibility for implementing training policy
can be focused. An intensification of training activities will require full time
training staff to plan, supervise and evaluate training programs.
II. TRAINING PROPOSALS
Up-grading of Training Facilities
2.01    Permanent facilities would be constructed for the Cooperative Training
College in Bhubaneswar and for the Cooperative Training Center in Bargarh. The
facilities at existing Training Center at Gopalpur would be renovated and additional
classroom and hostel accommodation built.   Cost estimates-are given in Annex 19.
Utilization of New Facilities
2.02    The new Cooperative  College in Bhubaneswar would have a theoretical
maximum training capacity of 1,,440 man-months per annum which would be sufficient
to accommodate the following range of courses:
Course                            No.         Trainees/      Months/      Total
Courses     Course         Course       man-months
Higher Diploma in Cooperation       2          40              4*         360
Industrial Cooperation             1           40              4i          180
Diploma in Cooperative audit        1          20              3            60
Accountancy                         2          40              6           480
Cooperative management              2          40              3           240
Short courses/seminars                                                     120



ANNEX 11
Page 4
This would be sufficient to provide the pre-service and in-service training
required for senior level staff of the cooperative movement.
2.03     The two expanded training centers would provide a theoretical maximum
training capacity of 2,880 man-months per annum. This is sufficient to accommodate
the following courses each year:
Course                            No.        Trainees/      Months/       Total
Courses     Course         Course        man-months
Junior supervisors                4            4              5             800
Junior Basic (for inspectors)    1q           40             6             360
Refresher for older
supervisors and inspectors       2            40             6             48o
Junior accountants                2            40             6             48o
Junior managers                   2            40             3             240
Short courses for auditors,
storekeepers, secretaries,
etc.                                                                     760
2,60
This would be sufficient to meet a 10% wastage from the ranks of existing
Cooperative Department inspectors, and the supervisors, junior managers and
accountants of the agricultural cooperatives, with a small margin remaining for
training of the relatively small numbers of staff of the non-agricultural
cooperatives.
Training of PCS Secretaries
2.04     The training of the 3,324 PCS secretaries has been too large a job for
the two Cooperative Training Centers and this would now become a responsibility
of the 17 Central Cooperative Banks (CCB). At each CCB simple hostel accommodation
for 24 students and a classroom unit would be constructed; only about half the
CCB have sufficient land for these buildings and land would need to be purchased
for those without any.
2.o5     A full-time instructor would be seconded from the Department of Cooperatives
to each of the CCB to organize and implement the training programs. Training
groups would be of approximately 20 and there would be four coursas per year at
every CCB. During the busy season of the year when the secretaries cannot
leave their units, instructors would carry out follow-up training and farmer
education on the role of cooperation.
2.06     CCB staff would also be involved in the training of the PCS secretaries,
together with the Department of Cooperatives' inspectors and State Cooperative
supervisors based at the CCB. The supervisors would also be given responsibility
for follow-up training of the secretaries after they have completed courses at
the CCB. As well as receiving formal classroom instruction, the trainees would
be assigned duties in the banks on an apprenticeship basis during their training
and thus would receive supervised on-the-job instruction in practical aspects
of book-keeping and simple accounting.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
2.07     The CCB would be able to use the teaching units for the instruction
of their own staff and the staff of their respective branches, and the
facilities would also be available for conferences and meetings when not in
use for formal teaching purposes.
2.08     The immediate and long term  success of the work of the agricultural
cooperatives depends upon the effectiveness of the PCS secretaries as they
are the only personnel in permanent contact with cooperative members. The
transference of their training from formal institutions to the CCB represents
a major departure from previous practice, which should benefit all those
involved with training the secretaries, as well as benefiting the secretaries
themselves. The new system needs to be given all possible assistance as it
develops, and funds are therefore included for a number of regional seminars
at which CCB managers and the instructors assigned to the CCB would be able
to meet and discuss the objectives, content and implementation of their training
programs. Staff from the Cooperative Training College and Training Centers
would attend these seminars to learn ways to assist with these training
activities.
2.09     The establishment of training facilities at the CCB would be phased
over three years so that all CCB would not be required to assume this new
responsibility at the same time, and those which start later would be able to
benefit from the experience gained by those which started first. This training
program could achieve the following throughput (assuming two CCB already have
facilities where training could be carried out in Year 1, and new facilities
would be constructed by the end of Year 1 at three other CCB):
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
CCB conducting courses       2         5         11         17        17        52
No. Trainees                80 *     400        880       1360      1360     4o8o
(20 trainees/course)
(* assuming two courses in the year at each CCB)
Thus, all existing PCS secretaries could receive training at the CCB during the
project disbursement period and additional capacity would be available for
training replacements.
2.10     Once a system of regular in-service training has been developed at the
CCB, they would also be able to provide training for junior accountants,
storekeepers, salesmen and others who are working in the various agencies served
by the CCB. Staff from the Training Centers would assist with this training.
Implementation of Training Program
2.11     The intensive utilization of the new training institutions and the
training facilities at the CCB described above would require able planning, good



conmunications and efficient administration of training resources.  For this
purpose a Training Officer would be appointed at the headquarters of the
Department of Cooperatives who would be responsible to the Registrar of Cooperatives
for the planning, implementation and evaluation of the training programs. In
particular, the Training Officer would be responsible for the following:
- Coordination of construction of new training facilities.
- Planning of programs of courses at training institutions in
consultation with heads of the training institutions and appropriate
senior cooperative staff.
- Advising the Registrar of Cooperatives on the appointment of teaching
staff for the posts at the new institutions, and the CCB, and arranging
for their further training as required.
-  Organizing seminars for tanagers of CCB and heads of training
institutions to plan the training of POS secretaries.
- Reviewing course curricula and planning course improvements.
- Evaluating training programs, and
-  identifying training needs.
Total Cooperatives Training Costs
2.12     Costs are summarized in Annex 19, Table 1.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Training of Extension Staff
BACKGROUND
1.01      The intensification of agricultural production in Orissa will
depend largely upon the effectiveness of the agricultural extension service
in changing farmers' attitudes and increasing their technical knowledge.
The introduction of new extension methodology (Training & Visits or T & V)
would increase the effectiveness of the large number of agricultural
extension staff already in the field throughout the State, and improve
communication between farmers and research services. The T & V program
'would provide a considerable amount of in-field, in-service training
for the field extension staff. However, levels of basic training of
many of the existing staff are rather poor and there is need to up-grade
these levels of basic knowledge so that field staff gain more from the
regular in-service training they would receive. There is also need to
strengthen existing facilities for agricultural basic or pre-service training
which were established some years ago for a much smaller training function
than they have today.
Field Staff
1.02      The Department of Agriculture employs (May 1976):
1,272 Village level workers (VLW);
1,603 Fieldman demonstrators, and
232 Agricultural sub-overseers.
3,107
1.03      In addition to the agricultural staff shown above, approximately
2,500 VLW currently employed by the Community Development Department will
be transferred to the Agriculture Department. Thus, the total number of
village level staff employed by the Agriculture Department will become
approximately 5,600 - sufficient for an extension agent to farmer ratio
of 1 : 600 throughout the State.
1.04      Fieldman demonstrators were recruited for special purposes e.g.
to work on district farms or on the jute programs; most have not completed
secondary schooling and received only brief training at farmer training
centers. Recently their pre-service training was up-graded to that of
the agricultural sub-overseers (one year at the VLW Training Centers); but
no new recruits are to be appointed to either category. Where possible,



ANNEX 12
Page 2
existing fieldman demonstrators and sub-overseers having the necessary
ability will be given up-grading training to the ecuivalent of VLW;
those judged unsuitable for further training will be retired and
replaced by fully trained VLW.
1.05      In addition to the need for up-grading training for fieldman
demonstrators and sub-overseers, many of the existing 3,800 VLW received
their basic training more than a decade ago, before major advances in
high yielding varieties and irrigation technology. Some up-grading
training of more senior VLW has been carried out at the three Training
Centers, but this will need to be continued and expanded to up-grade all
of the older VLW who are able to benefit.
Training Facilities
1.06      There are three Extension Training Centers in Orissa, at
Bhubaneswar, Gopalpur and Bolangir, which provide the agricultural training
for village level extension staff. They have been under the control of
the Department of Community Development, but a decision has been taken
recently to transfer them to the Agriculture Department.
1.07      All three training centers were built in the early 1950's and
currently provide three types of courses: a two-year pre-service course
for new VLW (though there are no pre-service trainees currently in training);
a t-wo-month refresher course - the emphasis of which may va'y to meet the
needs of a locality or agricultural situation, and a one-ye .r Higher Course
for more senior VLW with at lease ten years' field service
1.08      Each center has residential capacity for a maximum of 160 trainees,
but in practice this capacity is seldom fully utilized as all the centers
are short of teaching accommodation. Bhubaneswar has three classrooms,
Bolangir two and Gopalpur two, and each center has a small laboratory.
Each center has access to some arable land but, in general, teaching groups
are very large, instruction is very classroom oriented, and teaching staff
have insufficient contact with extension and research staff, or exposure
to field extension situations, to enable them to relate their teaching
adequately to field conditions.
1.09      All of the teaching staff of the centers are graduates and most
belong to the Agriculture Department, even though the centers have been
administered by the Community Development Department. Posting of staff to
the centers has not followed a clear policy; staff have not felt that they
could expect to make a career in agricultural teaching, and most of the
teaching staff have no training in teaching methods.
Training Needs
1.10      In addition to the existing 5,600 junior agricultural field staff
(see para. 1.03) about 1,000 will remain with the Community Development
Department. Thus, the total establishment for which the training centers



AMNEX 12
Page 3
must cater is about 6,600. Training is necessary to replace normal
wastage from this number, as well as up-grading training for the poorly
trained sub-overseers and fieldman demonstrators and older VLW. Assuming
a normal wastage rate of 5%, 330 replacements would be required annually.
1.11      Sub-overseers and fieldman demonstrators number 1835.  Assuming
approximately one third of these are nearing retirement and would not
benefit greatly from up-grading training, 1,200 would remain in service and
need training to strengthen their basic knowledge of agricultural science
and technology.
1.12      Of approximately 3,800 VLW who will be involved in agricultural
extension work, some are recently trained, some have attended the one-year
Higher Course, and others are nearing retirement. Approximately one third
of the total should receive up-grading training - say 1,300. Thus, the
imoediate training need which must be met by the training centers is:
Pre-service training         -          330 annually
Up-grading of older VLW      -        1,300
Up-grading sub-overseers    -         1,200
and fieldman demonstrators
1.13      In addition, new technology, changes in policy, and interest in
new crops or cultural practices, will call for short, specialized in-service
training courses for which the training centers would provide the most
appropriate venue. There will also be an increasing demand for short
courses for contact farmers and rural leaders, which would be held at the
training centers as well as at farmer training centers. At present the three
existing training centers lack the capacity, staff and teaching equipment
necessary to meet these training demands.
Pre-Service Courses
1.14      The largest proportion of teaching hours at the centers is currently
taken up by a two-year pre-service course. The minimum entrance qualification
for this course is matriculation (ten years of schooling), and the course
provides instruction in basic agricultural sciences, followed by applied
sciences, husbandries, farm management and extension. Most of the teaching
is heavily classroom oriented; the centers have little equipment to help them
with their teaching, and limited use is made of the agricultural land
available to the centers for practical instruction. The course includes a
three-month period of practical extension training when each trainee works
with a VLW in the field. While this provides the trainees with valuable
experience of field conditions, little supervised training is achieved during
this time, and thus the two-year course does not at present prepare the VLW
adequately for the demands that will be made upon them once they are posted
to the field. There is, therefore, a need to review the teaching of this course.



Page 4
AEO Training
1.15      Amongst the 278 AEO employed by the Agriculture Department,
roughly one third do not have degree level training. Furthermore, as
with older VLW, older AEO received their basic training before many of
the recent major technological advances took place and have had very
limited opportunities of improving their levels of technical knowledge.
The training role which the AEO would assume with the introduction of
the T & V program would quickly uncover weaknesses in their knowledge.
1.16      The Agriculture Department is discussing a four-month up-grading
course at the University for these older AEO and has funds for this training.
It is planned that accommodation at the under-utilized Plant Protection
Institute in Bhubaneswar be used for housing AEO on this course.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
1.17      SMS are needed at range and district level to provide in-field
in-service training of AEO and VLW, and to provide continuous communication
between field staff and the research stations. Some SMS have been appointed
in the six existing ranges but it has recently been decided to increase the
ranges to 13 so that they coincide with revenue districts, and better
coordination and supervision of field activities can be achieved. Five
SMS are required in each range, so there is the need for a total of 65 SMS
to staff all the ranges. In addition, there is a need for SMS at district
level, because the ranges are too large to enable range level SMS to
provide all VIW in-service training. There is a need for a basic training
program for these SMS prior to their appointment to the field.
Training of Women
1.18      Most of the rural extension activities in Orissa are directed
towards the male members of the rural communities, whereas women play an
important and increasing role in family decision making (including decisions
on agricultural matters), and are becoming progressively more involved with
such things as seed selection, handling of fertilizers, rodent control,
kitchen gardens, compost making, and the keeping of small animals. At
present there is one gramsevika (women's social education officer) per block,
employed by the Department of Community Development, who covers, on an
average, five panchayats and thus has an area to cover equivalent to five
VLW. Most of the work of the gramsevikas is conducted through women's
clubs, which they initiate throughout their areas, and each gramsevika
has between 20 and 30 such clubs. Their work concentrates upon improving
nutrition, health and family planning, child care, home management, agriculture
and animal husbandry. There is a strong response from rural women to the
efforts of the gramsevikas, but their limited numbers and lack of mobility
severely restricts the impact they can make.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
1.19      There are two small Gramsevika Training Centers in Orissa,
providing pre-service and refresher training for staff and short courses
for volunteer women workers from the panchayats, as well as special
courses in support of nutrition programs.   There is a large surplus of
women who have completed secondary school and are seeking employment
(some with graduate and teacher training qualifications), so there are
abundant recruits for the gramsevika program. However, the effectiveness
of the existing field staff could be greatly increased by improving
their mobility, support and supervision.
1.20      At present, in four' of the thirteen revenue districts there
are peripatetic training teams, based at farmer training centers, which
hold "training camps" of three to five days' duration for women's clubs.
The "camps" involve local gramsevikas and are organized through block
development officers.  The teams comprise a women's training officer and
two demonstrators with a vehicle, which carries teaching aids and
demonstration materials, and the teams have proved extremely effective.
The effectiveness of all gramsevikas would be increased if they were
supported by such teams in all districts.
C .  EXTENSION TRAINING PROPOSALS
A. Up-grading of Training Facilities
2.01      The three existing VLW Training Centers would be expanded and
up-graded and a new one added, to provide the necessary in-service training
to existing staff and pre-service basic training for replacements, with
capacity for new demands which are expected to be made upon them in the
future. Cost estimates are given in Annex 20.
Pre-Service Courses
2.02      The period of formal training for VLW at the training centers would
be shortened to one year and this would be supplemented by the regular training
they would receive in the field under the T & V program in practical husbandry
techniques, economics of small farm production, and extension methods.
These aspects of the present course are not being taught well in the formal
teaching situation of the training centers, and should be much more effectively
imparted by the in-field training of the T and V program. As individuals
prove their abilities, and needs for specialization develop, VLW would be
able to return to the training centers for further short, specialized training.
2.03      During the first half of the course, trainees would concentrate
on the basic agricultural sciences, and then proceed to applied sciences
during the second half. To achieve maximum efficiency of utilization of
teaching staff and facilities, there would be two intakes per annum of
40 each.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
This would mean there would always be 'senior' and 'junior' students
in the institutions at the same time, which should have a beneficial
effect upon the student communities at the centers.
2.04      In Orissa, at present, the status of the VLW is not high and
applications for V1W training, though sufficient, do not permit rigorous
selection. The introduction of the T & V program elsewhere in India has
achieved a marked improvement in the status of the VLW, with a
corresponding improvement in the number of applicants for training.
It is anticipated that this will take place in Orissa and enable more
selection of trainees for the pre-service course. This, and the planned
increase in schooling requirement from 10 to 12 years with the introduction
of vocational schools, should provide a supply of trainees with better
science background than many now have.
VLW Higher Course
2.05      The regular in-field training of VLW under the T & V program
would enable the present one-year up-grading Higher Course for older
VLW to be shortened. To qualify for this course, VLW at present have to
have a minimum of ten years' field service which means that many of them
have limited secondary schooling and received a much simpler pre-service
training than is given to VLW now. The object of the up-grading course
would be to strengthen their basic knowledge of agricultural technology,
and an eight month course would be necessary to achieve this.
Up-grading of Sub-overseers and Fieldman Demonstrators
2.o6      Some amongst the sub-overseers and fieldman demonstrators would
qualify for the VLW Higher Course, but most have worked on a single crop
and, while their knowledge on that crop would generally be good, they lack the
broad knowledge of basic agricultural technology which they would require
to work as VLW. Also, there is considerable variation in experience within
this group and their up-grading would require a series of special courses
to suit the needs of the different categories. For the purpose of calculating
utilization of training facilities, four-month courses have been included
for sub-overseer and fieldman demonstrator up-grading.
Training Program
2.07      To provide the training outlined above, a program involving the
following training courses would be necessary:
Course                        Length       Intake        No./year  Total throughput
Pre-service                   12 months      80             1       320 in 4 centers
"Higher" VLW up-grading        8 months      40             119    24o0  " i   it
Sub-overseers and FMD          4 months      40             3       360 in 3 centers



ANNEX 12
Page 7
2.08      This training program would fully utilize the up-graded
facilities of the three existing training centers with capacity for
160 students each, and one new center with capacity for 200 students.
The up-grading training of 1,200 sub-overseers and fieldman demonstrators
would be completed in three and a half years, and the up-grading of
1,200 VLW in five years. Thereafter the facilities would be used for
refresher training for VLW and AE0 and to meet the growing need for
short courses in specialized subjects for staff and for contact farmers
and local leaders. These, together with demands for livestock training
and new development programs, justify provision of facilities at two
centers to accommodate an additional teaching stream of Lo students.
VLW Replacement Projection
2.09      The total number of VIW in the field (including the 1,000 who
will remain with the Department of Community Development) is about
6,600. The table below shows the effect of an annual wastage rate of
5% on this total, with replacements at an annual rate of 320, once new
facilities are completed.  The following assumptions are made:
(a)  Since all facilities are now being used for up-grading,
no pre-service training is in progress at any of the three
centers. There will, therefore, be no output from the
present two-year course in either 1977 or 1978.
(b)  An intake of 40 will be admitted at three centers in
1977 for a one-year pre-service course to give an output
of 120 in 1978; thereafter the three centers would turn
out a total of 240 per year.
(c)  A fourth center, to be constructed under the project,
would be ready for its first intake early in 1979 giving
an output of 80 in 1980 (see Chart, Annex 29).
VLW Projections
Year      In post      Wastage @ 5%       Replacements       Net
1976       6,60o            330                              6,270
1977       6,270            313               -              5,957
1978       5,957            298              120             5,779
1979       5,779            289              240            5,730
1980       5,730            286              320             5,764
1981       5,764           286               320            5,798
Training Facilities
2.10      The training program outlined above would require an increase in
training facilities which could be achieved by substantial expansion of the



AN. - L
Page o
three existing centers or, alternatively, improvements to existing
centers and the establishment of a new center. Of the existing centers,
the one in Bhubaneswar does not have adequate land for extensive
expansion (though its situation in relation to the university, research
stations and a large farming community is good); and the center at
Gopalpur, while having ample land for buildings, is situated on the coast
in the South-eastern corner of the State at some distance from soil types
and farming communities which are typical of most of the area it serves.
Therefore, rather than attempt substantial expansion of the three existing
centers, one new center would be constructed, the center in Bhubaneswar
would be expanded to accommodate 200 students, and the other two would
be improved to enable them to accommodate 160 students, with teaching
groups not exceeding 40.  The existing centers are all sited in the
center and south of the State. A new center, say at Sambalpur, Kheonjhar
or Baripada, would serve the north, and would increase the potential
flexibility of training within the State. Land would be made available
by Government for the new center.
2.11      The facilities to be provided are shown in the following table:
Buildings                 Bhubaneswar      Gopalpur      Bolangir     New Center
Hostel accommodation         40                              -           200
Kitchen/dining                1                              -             1
Laboratory                    1               -              -             2
Classrooms                    2               2              2             4
Teaching workshop             1               1              1             1
Hall/common room              -               -              -             1
Administration                -               -              -             1
Housing for staff             -               -              -             9
2.12      Teaching workshops and basic equipment would be provided at the
centers. These are needed to enable them to provide practical training in
farm implements, pumps, sprayers, simple engines and power tillers.  Adoption
of simple mechanization is spreading rapidly in Orissa and most VLW have
had no training in this field.
2.13      A second laboratory would be added at the center in Bhubaneswar.
Its central location, and proximity to the university and research stations,
make it the logical place to hold a variety of specialized courses for AEO
as well as VLW. Its present laboratory space is very limited and the
provision of a second laboratory would enable one to be used for chemistry,
soils and fertilizers, and the other for biological subjects.
Teaching Staff
2.14      The teaching staff, who are entrusted with the basic training of
VLW, must have a clear idea of what the VLW would be required to do in the
field and what sort of problems would confront them; they must be in touch



ANNEX 12
Page 9
with research being conducted in their own fields - this applies
particularly to staff teaching applied agricultural subjects - and
should be able to act in a subject matter specialist role for the
in-service training of VLW in their respective areas of specialization.
2.15      To achieve this, teaching staff at the training centers would
be increased; links between the centers and the field extension staffs
they serve would be strengthened, and teaching staff would be made
available to participate in in-field, in service training of VLW.
Staff would also be made available to assist the district officers with
the training of primary cooperative society secretaries in basic
agricultural principles and recommendations. An additional light vehicle
and funds for running expenses would be provided for each center
to give staff the mobility to perform these new duties. In addition,
teaching staff would be included in SMS refresher training programs at
the research stations and would be encouraged to maintain communication
with researchers working in their respective fields.
2.16      Funds are included in the project for 20 man-months of training
for teaching staff to attend training courses in India in adult education
and agricultural teaching methods. These funds would supplement a limited
number of scholarships which are available for this purpose under an
all-India program.
Trainee Stipend
2.17      The present stipend for trainees attending in-service training
courses at the centers is Rs 50/- per month. This rate has remained in
force for a number of years and is now a disincentive to prospective
trainees. This rate would be increased to Rs 75/-. For pre-service trainees
who are not yet receiving salaries, the monthly stipend would be Rs 100/-.
Estimated Cost
2.18      Details are given in Annex 20.
B. Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
2.19      The number of Range DDA would be increased from 6 to 13 and each
DDA would be assisted by six SMS in farm machinery, agronomy, plant
protection, horticulture, farm management, water management and training.
Some of these SMS are already in post in the six existing ranges. In
addition, three S4S would be appointed at district level who would specialize
in the fields of agronomy, plant protection and training. Thus, a total
of 168 SMS would be needed, 78 at range level and 90 for the districts.



ANNEX 12
Page 10
2.20      There is a limited supply of suitably trained and experienced
men to fill the SMS positions, and the appointment of the 168 SMS would
be phased over the five-year project period to allow for their training
prior to appointment. At district level, a number of SMS in agronomy
and plant protection would be promoted from existing AEO, but the
majority would be young MSc graduates who have recently completed university
courses. These would be employed at a research station for up to a year
before being appointed as SMS to give them the necessary practical
experience.
2.21      Range level SMS would require a broader technical background in
their respective fields, and their training at research stations in
Orissa would be supplemented by courses or study visits to research
centers elsewhere in India. Funds are included in the project for 80
man-months of training outside Orissa (see para. 2.10 and Annex 16).
2.22      Training specialists would assist DDA and DAO with the
identification of training priorities; carry out in-field training of
VIW in extension methods; coordinate the activities of the SMS in the
training of AEO and VLW, and be responsible for liaison with other support
services to ensure that teaching aids and demonstration materials, needed
by VLW, were available as required. They would also liaise with research
stations and training centers in their respective areas; assist with the
planning of courses and course contents, and handle the selection of
participants to attend specific training courses. Many training SMS would
be appointed from existing AED, who have an interest in traib ing; others
would be recruited from outside the service with MSc degree Ln extension
training methods.
C. Training for Rural Women
2.23      Mobile Training Units for rural women would be provided in the
ten ranges in which no peripatetic teams are based at present. Existing
teams would then be confined to a single range. These units would comprise
a Lady Training Officer, two demonstrators and a driver. Field programs
for the mobile units would be organized in consultation with the District
Community Development Officers who are responsible for the gramsevika field
activities. The training units would concentrate on giving short, intensive,
in-field training of one or two days to "contact women" of the women's
clubs at "training camps" (as is done by existing teams at present), and
the vehicles would carry visual aid materials and demonstration equipment
for this purpose.
2.24      The training units would strengthen the impact of the existing
gramsevikas who would help to plan the programs of the units and would provide
the necessary follow-up after the training camps. The units would also be
able to distribute visual aid materials and demonstration equipment to help
the gramsevikas in their work. Training of the demonstrators to operate
equipment carried by the vehicles would be conducted in Orissa by short
attachment to one of the peripatetic teams already operating.



ANNEX 12
Page 11
2.25      The establishment of the new training units would be phased
over Years 1 and 2 to enable staff to be trained and experience to be
gained in their operation. Existing gramsevika training centers and
farmer training centers would be involved in the production of visual
aid materials for use and distribution by the units.
2.26      Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 20.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Management Data Unit
A. Background
Inadequate Data Base
1.        During the course of the Sept/Oct 1975 review and subsequent pro-
ject identification/preparation it became apparent that the reliability of the
basic production data was low and that requisite data--such as land use inven-
tories, yields of improved varieties under field conditions, input-output re-
lationships for major inputs and their prices, and farm income estimates under
different technologies--was not available. The latest available data on costs/
returns in rice production is for 1973/74 and provides only average figures
covering a wide range of situations. There is also no information on differ-
ent technologies; for example, the merits and relative costs of hand labor
against mechanical power for different operations, or hand weeding against
herbicides.
2.        Project support to the Bureau of Economics and Statistics (BSE) for
improvement of area, yield and production statistics would provide more reli-
able basic statistics. Planning of the sector, and evaluation of policy
options at both state and farm level, requires ongoing collection, analysis
and evaluation of farm cost and return data. Similarly, evaluation of the
extension and adaptive research components requires production economic data
collected from farms at different development stages.
Current Status of Farm Management Data
3.        The collection and analysis of farm production economic data has
been confined to a few cost of production studies, well carried out by the
OUAT Department of Agricultural Economics, working in cooperation with the
University of Missouri, and benchmark surveys by the Directorate of Agricul-
ture and Food Production (DAFP). At present the Department has a teaching
staff of twelve, including the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, but all
are fully committed to teaching and supervision of research students.
4.        One staff member supervises an ongoing full cost accounting survey
of principal crops carried out on behalf of GOI under an all-India scheme
for paddy, jute and groundnuts. Thirty-three investigators are employed to
cover a sample of about 360 cultivators. Two other major surveys have been
carried out and results published:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(a) Economics of farming in Cuttack district carried out
between 1967 and 1972 and published in 1973, providing
data on paddy, sugarcane, jute and pulse crops collected
from some 150 holdings;
(b) a farm business analysis of 42 farmers in the Sambalpur
district carried out under the aegis of the Ford Founda-
tion in 1971-73.
5.        In addition, a number of studies have been undertaken by MSc stii-
dlents in part fulfillment of their degree. These have covered the economics
of tubewell and flow irrigation, employment and earnings of agriculture,
capital formation, etc. Special studies have also been undertaken by the
Department, covering Small Farmers Development Agencies (SFDA) and drought
prone areas. As a result of this work, the Department published a Farm
Management Handbook in 1971, of considerable value to extension workers
at all levels but needing regular updating.
6.        In the course of preparation work for the Irrigation (Command
Area) Development (CAD), DAFP project staff have undertaken some benchmark
surveys of farming in the command areas. However, whilst the quality of
the work has been high, the DAFP does not have the staff or organization
to undertake this work on anything but an ad hoc basis.
7.        Apart from collection of basic agricultural statistics, BSE has
conducted an ongoing benchmark survey in Sambalpur district, to measure
results of the intensive agricultural district program (IADP). There is
also an ongoing program on household income, but none of these activities
provide data of much value for agricultural planning.
B. Project Actions
Objectives
8.        A wide spectrum of farm management data is required to provide the
basis for:
monitoring  and evaluating performance in the
agricultural sector;
feedback on costs and returns of present farm
systems to assist in the formulation of price
policy and planning in the sector;
evaluating new techniques coming forward under
the field research program;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
--   evaluating and monitoring the take-up rate, receptiveness
or reluctance of farmers to the extension system cultural
reasons for adoption or non-adoption of recommended prac-
tices, roles of contact farmers in diffusing the received
advice.
9.        Whilst the research component (Annex 4) should fill a major gap
in linking research work with farm level needs through the extension service,
the proposed OUAT Farm Management Data Unit (FMDU) would provide a key link
in interpreting results in terms of farm profitability, and establishing the
role of new techniques in different farm systems.
10.       FMDU would provide an effective data delivery system for collecting,
analyzing and making available the necessary information for this purpose.
Such information would include input/output coefficients, factor/product price
ratios, capital/credit requirements, land/labor relationships and productivity/
income potentials, as derived for existing and alternative production systems
under various agro-ecological conditions, production structures, and organiza-
tional arrangements. With this data the impact of alternative policy measures
regarding small and large farmer development could be adequately assessed and
effective strategies devised and implemented by the Policy Planning and
Coordination Unit being created under the Agricultural Production Commissioner,
to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the project (and to prepare subsequent
agricultural projects).
11.       In summary, the main FMDU objectives would be to:
(a) mount a series of production cost studies on major
crops in the State to provide data to the subject
matter specialists (SMS) for training village level
workers (VLW), and a feedback to PPCU to assist GOO
in sector planning;
(b) undertake cost-benefit studies of new techniques
developed from the adaptive research program,
analyze results following farmer uptake;
(c) provide data for, and revise the Orissa State Farm
Management Handbook, for the guidance of extension
workers and farmers;
(d) provide a farm planning service for the information
of all GOO departments, particularly agencies such as
SFDA and the Tribal Development Agency, to ensure that
development programs are founded on sound, economically
and financially viable, farm plans;.
(e) provide benchmark data as a basis for development poli-
cies and programs for different geographical zones and
social groups;



ANNEX 13
Page 4
(f) monitor and evaluate the results of the package of
practices developed by the research and extension
services.
Organization and Staff Requirement
12.       FMDU would be set up in the OUAT Department of Agricultural
Economics as a separate unit, without teaching responsibilities. FMDU
would be run by a Director at the same level as the present Department
Head and responsible to the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture. The
Director, Assistant Director and supporting staff, would be located at
OUAT, Bhubaneswar. One Farm Management Economist (FME) would be appointed
per two agricultural range headquarters 1/ and one Fari MIaaagement Assist-
ant (FMA) to each agricultural district, to provide subject matter advice
to extension workers and farmers and to supervise data collection. The
FME would be based at applied research stations to provide a further link be-
tween field and research and to guide planning of applied research programs.
13.       There is little expertise in farm management economics presently
available in the State, outside OUAT, and it would be necessary to recruit
outside Orissa for some posts. In training up farm management assistants,
the Department would assist inittaLly through training workshops. The
Director would be an agricultural economist with specialization in farm
management economy and the Assistant Director would be an agricultural
economist with experience in rural sociology. The job descriptions and qua-
lifications for director, assistant director and farm management assistants
are given in Appendix 1.
14.       Basic data would be collected from a sample of 1,500 farms through-
out the State and be handled by primary investigators employed at the rate of
one per 15 farms. These would be trained in the techniques of farm management
survey work through district level training workshops. Staff requirements
are projected as follows:
Director                         1      Statistical Analysts         15
Assistant Director               1      Clerk Typists                5
Farm Management Economist 2/    6       Accountant                   1
Farm Management Assistant       30      Stenographers                2
Primary Investigators          105      Messengers & Watchmen        3
Systems Analyst                  1      Drivers                      7
1/   Under the project thirteen agricultural ranges would be created with
virtually the same boundaries as 13 administrative districts.
2/   Including one or two socio-economists/sociologists.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
Selection of Farm Sample and Methodology
15.       Farm management data would be obtained through selection and ongoinv
rocIoruling of a suitably stratified sample of 1,500 farms covering the range of
farm systems in the State. The sample would he distributed and weighted to
include various farm sizes, cropping patterns, production technology and agro-
ecological situations.  Though some information wouldl be obtained for costs
and returns under various conditLoyis arid practices from these surveys, they
may not cover all available production practices that could and should be
recommended by the extension service.  In thim: evei[, Fr;tr't budgets would be
synthesized from experimental data derived from the expanded adaptive re-
search program and other available research. Finally, wherever possible
and advisable, these surveys would be integrated with those carried out
for GOI, notably by BSE.
16.       The steps in planntling and carrying out the surveys would be:
(a) derive a frequency distribution of agricultural produc-
tion units according to farm size, using available census
da ta;
(b) correlate the administrative districts, wherein these
farms are located, to identify (broad) agro-ecological
zones, thereby further stratifying these farm-size
groupings according to homogenous pedological and
climatic conditions;
(c) draw appropriate samples amongst those designated group-
ings and conduct detailed farm management surveys which
examine individual enterprises and the total farm opera-
tion, including household consumption and expenditures.
17.       It is expected that, in principle, the 1970/71 agricuLtutral census
data would be used as a basis for drawing the sample. The farms selected
would be recorded on an ongoing basis through monthly visits by primary
investigators and results of the whole farm business would be recorded. A
farm management assistant would visit at the beginning and end of the year.
Sample size would be determined following a review of the censuis data and
field research program, but it is envisaged that about 1,500 1/ farms would
be required, i.e., approximately 50 per agricultural district. A pilot run
would be carried out in two or three districts to test the methodology.
Technical assistance at no cost to GOO, would be requested from the Farm
Management and Production Economic HJnit of the Agricultural Services Division,
FAO, Rome, in selecting the sample and developing the methodology. Four
1/   Based on advice from BSE that at a 5% level of accuracy a sample of
300 may be required for each major agrtcultural eco-climatic region.
However, sample size can only be determined when the particular needs
of the survey have been matched with census data.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
months' input by a production economist is envisaged in setting up the pilot
survey and one month subsequently for analysis of results; local costs have
been included in project costs.
Data Processing
18.       Initially, processing would be "manual" using electric and hand
calculators. Ultimately, subject to other demands and suitabl.[ty, the
OUAT computer might be used.
Vehicles and Equipment
19.       Vehicles and equipmenit would be purchased for the Director and
range level FME an(i loans would be provided to purchase motorcycles.
ElectrLc calculators would be provided for FME (6), the systems analyst
(1), and statistical analysts (15), and for the DLrector (1) and Assistant
Director (1); a total of 24 hand calculators would be provided for FMA
(30) to prepare tables from raw data collected by the primary investigators,
plus standby for the central unit (4); a total of 34. One duplicator and
five typewriters would also be required together with furniture for the
central unit. FME would use facilities at research farms and DAFP range
offices and FMA would work from agricultural district oEfices.
Use of Data
20.       Data prepared by the unit would be channelled to PPCU.  Relevant
results would be used by the extension and research advisory panel to gaiido
applied and adaptive research units, and selected extension packages would
be fed back to farm management subject matter specialist to provide a basis
for training vrW.
C. Project Cost
21.       Total project cost, excluding contingencies, is estimated at Rs 7.7
M (US$ 856,000) (See Annex 25) as follows:



ANNEX 13
Page 7
Y E A R
1        2         3        4         5      Total
Thousand Rupees
Vehicles and equipment
Vehicles & motorcycles  407        60       -         -        -        467
Equipment & furniture    95       176       -         -        -        271
Sub total           502     236        -         -        -        738
Establishment
Staff Salaries           457   1,324   1,324    1,324    1,324        5,753
Operating Costs          139      285     272       272      272      1,240
Sub total           596    1,609  1,596    1,596    1,596        6,993
Total Cost        1,098    1,845  1,596    1,596    1,596        7,731
Attachments:
Appendix 1. Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Service Staff
2. Implementation Schedule
October 28, 1976






ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Management Data Unit
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of
Senior Staff
Director
The Director of the Unit would have had at least ten years' exper-
ience in the field of production economics in a teaching or advisory role.
He would preferably have been responsible for farm management and cost of
production studies. He would have a basic degree in agricultural economics,
preferably a Master's or Doctor's degree with specialization in farm manage-
ment economics.
It would be desirable that he was familiar with farming systems
similar to those in Orissa and had had experience of administration in a
government or university organization.
He would be responsible to the Dean of the College of Agriculture
for establishing and operating a Farm Management Data Unit and his duties
would include:
(a) control of the Unit's funds and all aspects of its
day to day planning and management;
(b) training project staff and ensuring that a proper
management training program is successfully imple-
mented for all levels of staff;
(c) selecting a suitable sample of farms and setting up
an ongoing system of data collection and analysis;
(d) supplying the Policy Planning and Coordination Unit
(PPCU) and the Extension and Research Advisory Panel
with results at regular intervals;
Assistant Director
The Assistant Director of the Unit would have had at least five
years' experience in the field of production economics, including experience
of field investigations. He would have a basic degree in agricultural econ-
omics, preferably a master's degree in rural sociology or agricultural exten-
sion. Alternatively, a basic degree in rural sociology or agricultural ex-
tension, with subsequent experience in field investigations.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 2
He would be responsible to the Unit Director and would assist him
in all aspects of the Unit's work. In particular, his duties would include:
(a) organization of sample selection and subsequent monitor-
ing of the field work;
(b) analysis of the results and preparation of reports for the
PPCU and Extension and Research Advisory Panel;
(c) drawing up curricula and organizing training courses both
for the Unit's staff and for the subject matter specialists
of the DAFP extension service.
Farm Management Economist
A Farm Management Economist (FME) would have had at least three
years' experience in field level farm management/cost of production studies
and would have a master's degree in agricultural economics.
He would be responsible to the Director of the Unit and his duties
would include:
(a) supervision of data collection in the two agricultural
ranges for which he is responsible;
(b) supervision of preliminary aggregation of the data by
farm management assistants and transfer of this data
to the Central Analysis Unit at Bhubaneswar;
(c) assisting applied and adaptive research farms in his
ranges with production economic aspects of planning,
analysis and interpretation of trials results;
(d) running training courses for subject matter specialists
and FMA in his ranges.
Farm Management Assistant
A Farm Management Assistant (FMA) would have a bachelor's degree
in agriculture or agricultural economics and three years' experience as an
agricultural extension officer or equivalent.
He would be responsible to the Farm Management Economist for the
collection, through the primary investigators, and preliminary aggregation
of data from the sample of farms in his district. His duties would also
include the training of primary investigators in the work of farm data
collection.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 3
Systems Analyst
The Systems Analyst would have a master's degree (or basic degree
and equivalent experience) in systems analysis or econometrics and w)ttld have
had experience in the analysis and presentation of farm survey data.
He would be responsible to the Assistant Mrocttor for analysis and
presentation of results received from the field supervising 15 statistical
analysts in this work.
Sociologist
One or two sociologiests with a master's degree (or basic degree
and equivalent experience) in rural siciology and would have experience in
the analysis and presentation of sociological surveys.
He (they) should design appropriate research tools to mnonitor
farmers' behaviour and should carry out and analyze the needed monitoring
research on the social, instructional and cultural aspects of project im-
plementaton and impact.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Management Data Unit
Implementation Schedule
Month
1       -    Advertisement for all posts--four week deadline for
replies.
-    Request to FAO for Farm Management & Production
Economics Consultant.
-    Tender notice to be issued to the manufacturers/
distributors/suppliers to offer quotations of prices
for supply of transport vehicles, and all office
equipment--four week deadlines.
-    Alternative orders from Director of Supplies and
Disposals in New Delhi.
2       -    Interviews for the following positions:
Director
Assistant Director
Systems Analyst
6 Farm Management Economists
Accountant
-    Preparation of draft comparative statement on which to
enter price quotations to be received from different
agencies (item wise).
3       -    Receipt and evaluation of quotations by the Tender
Committee of the University and placing of orders
for supply within two months.
3-4     -    Selection of above posts and interviews for Farm
Management Assistants and Primary Investigators
by Director and/or Assistant Director elect.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page 2
Month
5-6     -    Appointment of Farm Management Assistants, Primary
Investigators.
6       -    Director, Assistant Director, System Analyst, Farm
Management Economists, and Accountant take up
appointments.
-    FAO consultant arrives and census and other back-
ground data assembled for selection of sample.
-    Selection of Statistical Analysts.
7-9     -    Data analyzed and methodology developed.
-    Farm Management Assistants and 50 Primary Inves-
tigators take up post, and training courses
commence
-    Pilot survey initiated and completed under super-
vision of FAO consultant
-    arrangement of rented accommodation for field staff.
8-9     -    Schedules and questionnaires prepared and pre-tested
-    training courses continued
-    Field staff posted
9       -    FAO consultant leaves
13      -    remaining equipment to be delivered
-    a further 55 Primary Investigators to be selected
14      -    Statistical Analysts to take up posts and training
initiated
15      -    Pilot Survey results analyzed (FAO consultant to
be recalled, if desired)
16      -    Pilot survey results evaluated and full survey
sample selected and implemented one month input
from FAO consultant.



ANN L,
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing
I. Background
Agricultural Statistics in Orissa
1.        Reliable, relevant and current data, together with the capacity to
organize and present it for use of planners and policy makers, are prerequi-
sites to effective agricultural planning in Orissa. Efforts to improve the
agricultural situation and establish sound policies and investment priorities
are presently hampered by lack of such data and the human and physical
resources to acquire it.
2.        In the past, three agencies of the Government of Orissa (GOO) have
been responsible for the collection and processing of agricultural statistics:
the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP), the Bureau of
Statistics and Economics (BSE) and the Orissa Revenue Department. DAFP is
responsible for all crop forecasts (including rice, potato and jute) and for
final estimates of area under jute as well as area, average yield, and pro-
duction of 33 minor crops. BSE is responsible for final estimates of area,
average yield and production of rice and potatoes and for estimates of the
average yield of jute. The Orissa Revenue Department was responsible for
conducting the first large-scale census of agriculture in Orissa in early
1970/71, for presentation in 1972. Orissa proposes to conduct such a census
once every five years, and the next is now due, though preparation has not
yet begun. However, it appears that it will be replaced by a Timely Reporting
System (TRS) recommended India-wide by GOI and expected to begin in 1976 (see
para 7 below).
3.        DAFP uses an administrative reporting system based on the village
level worker (VLW) as primary reporting unit. Forecasting of all crops and
estimation of minor crops (areas and yields) is one of many functions which
VLW perform. They are also expected to estimate average yields for high-
yielding rice in the intensive agricultural district (Sambalpur) as well as
under the HYV program (Cuttack and Balangir). VLW also assess crop losses as
a result of natural calamities and disasters. Until recently, they were also
required to prepare statistical reports prescribed by the Community Develop-
ment Department (CDD) for the evaluation of CDD programs. Agricultural exten-
sion work and various other assignments are usually given a higher priority
than statistical work, which consequently suffers in quality and timelines.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        Although VLW keep registers in which they record crop information,
their estimates are subjective and unreliable. They are overworked and are
naturally reluctant to prepare reports which may imply deficiencies in. their
performance. The agricultural extension officer (AEO) meets every month with
VLW in his Development Block and supervises them in the compilation of primary
data from the registers. Some of the reports are oral and the AEO may change
the data supplied by VLW without further discussion. Most AEO feel free to
correct the registers, bring the reported data more in line with targets.
They also usually adjust the data if they feel the VLW have unrealistically
exaggerated the results. Similar adjustments are also made at a more aggra-
gated level by District Agricultural Officers. Thus, the data collected under
the administrative reporting system is poorly supervised, highly subjective
and biased, subject to progressive error and unreliable for agricultural plan-
ning. Recognizing these difficulties, and following the transfer of VLW to
the extension service and reorientation of their duties, the administrative
reporting system and previous forms of agricultural survey work will be dis-
continued in favor of a comprehensive, scientifically-based system of sampling
and enumeration to be carried out by BSE.
II. Bureau of Economics and Statistics (BSE)
5.        The Bureau of Statistics and Economics (BSE) is in the Planning and
Coordination Department of Orissa. In this centralized capacity, it is well
placed to coordinate information requirements from various sources using
Departments, such as Agriculture, and avoiding unnecessary duplication of data
collection and processing activities. BSE is divided into six divisions and
a statistical training institute.
6.        The Agricultural Statistics and Crop Survey Division, headed by a
Deputy Director, will be responsible for implementation of TRS. In addition
to the Deputy Director, the Division includes 4 assistant directors, 14 statis-
tical technicians, (3 statistical investigators, 5 statistical assistants, and
6 junior statistical assistants) and 5 clerks. These 24 staff members, sta-
tioned permanently at headquarters in Bhubaneswar, are assisted by a sizable
field organization. In each of the 13 districts, there is a district statis-
tical officer (DSO) who works half time on agricultural statistics. He super-
vises the work of an assistant district statistical officer (who works exclu-
sively on agricultural statistics) and sometimes one or two statistical inves-
tigators who also work exclusively on agricultural statistics. In Orissa as a
whole, BSE presently employs 45 field inspectors and 211 specially trained
field enumerators (amins) -- all of whom work on agricultural statistics.
This staff of statistical workers will be considerably augmented and strength-
ened in the course of TRS implementation. BSE appears to be competently
managed and staffed and the expansion program associated with the implemen-
tation of TRS is within the capacity of the BSE to handle successfully.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
III. Data Collection and Processing Objectives
7.        The primary objective of TRS, being introduced nationwide, is to
provide accurate, timely and relevant information to planners, policy makers
and others such as the extension service who rely on agricultural statistics
to effectively carry out their tasks. It aims to provide:
-    Area and yield statistics
-    by irrigated and unirrigated areas
-    by high yielding and traditional varieties
-    at Block level for principal crops and at agricultural
district level for minor crops
-    land use patterns
-    Irrigation statistics
-    source of irrigation
-    net area irrigated
-    gross area irrigated
-    area irrigated more than once
-    crops under irrigation by season and by source of water.
-    Price statistics
-    retail prices
-    wholesale prices
-    farm harvest prices
-    Supplementary surveys
-    soil samples
-    labor
-    land tenure
-    production costs
-    fertilizer use
-    pesticide use
-    etc.
-    Social and Qualitative Analysis of the Projects Agricultural System
-    take-up rate
-    receptiveness of farmers
-    cultural reasons for adoption or non-adoption of recommended
packages
-    roles of contact farmers in diffusing the received advice



ANNEX 14
Page 4
8.        Under TRS, estimation of areas and average yields of rice and 11
other important crops in Orissa would be based on a predesigned selectIon of
annual samples, with a complete rotation of the sample every year. This
system is expected to be put into operation in 1976, and should produce the
results equivalent to a complete enumeration census by the early 1980s. The
advantages of this system include the relatively low cost and the timely
availability of current production statistics every year, with a gradual
build-up of an inventory of detailed land-use statistics (area planted and
average yield of 12 important crops at ar,d below the village level). These
detailed village data are needed for planning, policy decisions, and farm
management. In particular, a complete or even a partial replacement of the
random sample every year would provide detailed information on crop patterns
which could be used at and below the village level for field trials and demon-
strations to be conducted by the agricultural extension service in Orissa.
9.        TRS is designed to be responsive to the increasing need for reliable
data at lower levels of aggregation. It provides for a larger sample needed
to develop a sampling frame for collecting statistical data at the village
level. Moreover, detailed data at the village level are needed fot agricul-
tural policy and village work. Such data can only be obtained with complete
accuracy by a complete enumeration of all plots. Inasmuch as a complete
enumeration census cannot be conducted without huge expenditure and lengthy
delays of data processing and evaluation, complete enumeration of all plots
would be carried out in a sample of 3,140 selected villages (6%) during the
kharif season and in another 46 villages durinig the rabi season every year,
with sample rotation.
10.       In addition to the ongoing surveys of rice, potatoes, and jute,
the proposed TRS would cover two cereals (wheat and ragi), three pulses (biri,
mung, and kulthi), three oilseeds (sesame, groundnuts, rape and mustard), and
sugar cane. The survey of jute and mesta, would be extended to cover area as
well as yield. Total cultivated area would also be estimated (without an
estimate of average yield). In all, areas of thirteen different commodity
groups and average yields of twelve commodity groups would be estimated by
the proposed TRS surveys.
11. The present sample design used for the survey of rice would be modified
insofar as the present 180 strata would be extended to 314, where each com-
munity development block would become a separate stratum. Instead of the
present 20 villages selected at random from each of the 180 strata, the TRS
sample for this kharif season would consist of ten villages selected at ran-
dom from each of the 314 blocks (3,140 villages). The major change in the
sample design is below the village level where, instead of selecting six
clusters of ten survey numbers (from about 750 survey numbers in each village,
on the average), the TRS would enumerate all survey numbers. This would pro-
duce a complete record of the total cultivated area, showing separately the
area under each of the twelve crops in every selected village. The TRS pro-
posal envisages a gradual increase of the sample from the initial 6% (3,140
villages out of about 52,000 villages in Orissa) in 1975/76 to 10, 15, and
20% in subsequent years.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
12.       In order to distribute the workload more evenly during the year,
the 3,140 villages would be surveyed in three sub-rounds during the kharif
season. Moreover, an additional 460 villages would be selected in inten-
sively irrigated blocks during the rabi (dry) season, bring the total number
of villages to be covered during the initial year to about 7%. The rabi
survey work, in addition to that during kharif, would permit the TRS to
cover all villages within about seven years. With a complete rotation of the
sample every year, the TRS would be equivalent to a complete census enumera-
tion of all cultivated areas in Orissa over a period of several years.
IV. Staffing Requirements
13.       To implement the TRS program for improvement of agricultural
statistics, and in the absence of VLW transferred to full-time agricultural
works, a large increment of staff will be needed by BSE. The recruitment and
training of staff will be phased over several years (see Annex 26, Table 3).
14.       The major staff requirement would be for primary and supervisory
workers for collection of field data. At full development, about 1,200 Amins
(primary level data collectors) would be required, in addition to supervisory
field staff. This would provide one trained Amin for every 10 sample villages,
including a leave reserve. In addition to collecting data on yields and area,
the Amin would also collect farm harvest prices and producer prices at the
village level. Field inspectors, to supervise and assist the work of Amins,
would be required at the rate of about 1 to every 5 Amins. Additional staff
would be required at each of the 13 District statistical offices where data
are aggregated to the district level for local use as well as organized for
onward transmission to State headquarters. Staff would also be required at
State headquarters level for data quality control checking, tabulation and
analysis. Sufficient and qualified staff are available in Orissa to imple-
ment TRS and recruitment is not expected to pose a problem.
V. Training
15.       One of TRS major objectives is to provide accurate and reliable
data. This requires that the statistical methodology to be employed is under-
stood and strictly applied in the field. A training program to ensure proper
field work on the part of Amins and field inspectors would therefore be con-
ducted, under the project. Three training institutes are being established
to provide the necessary initial training. Refresher courses would be given
at BSE's Statistical Training Institute.
16.       The training courses would cover the sampling and enumeration tech-
niques to be employed in the field. Instruction would also be given on land
survey, settlement (land title) operations, identification of survey numbers



ANNEX 14
Page 6
and land boundaries, cultivation, sowing and harvest practices, general pests
and diseases, and identification of high yielding varieties. Practical field
work would be included.
VI. Equipment and Facilities
17.       Incremental equipment and facilities to implement TRS would consist
mainly of vehicles (motorcycles, bicycles, light trucks) for transportation of
field staff, measuring and weighing equipment, and crop cutting devices. Some
office calculating machines, typewriters and furniture and equipment would
also be needed. In addition, several items of tabulating machinery would
be purchased to augment the automatic tabulating facilities of the BSE (see
Annex 26, Table 2).
October 28, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
----------------- Y E A R ------------------                   Foreign
1         2        3         4           5     Total       Exchange           Local  Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign  Total
s Rs 000             (Thousand Rupees)           (US Dollar equivalent)
(@ Rs9 = Us$1)
Agricultural Extension (Annex 16)
Civil Works                                           11,240   22,481   11,240         -          -     44,961        -
Equipment & Vehicles                                   2,506    4,642    4,634    1,420           -     13,202       19    2,606
Establishment
Salaries & wages                                    3,718    4,508    5,991    7,005         7,640   28,862         2      764
Other costs                                            778    1.551    1.848    1,924        1,939    8.040         2      214
Sub-total                                        4,496    6,059    7,839    8,929         9,579   36,902              3,584
Total (before contingency)                      18,242   33,182   23,713   10,349         9,579   95,065              3,584       91,481   3,584   95,065          10,165   398   10,563
Physical contingencies                                   640    1,279        939       192        194    3,244                  7
Total                                           18,882   34,461   24,652   10,541         9,773   98,309              3,591
Axricultural Research (Annex 17)
Civil Works                                            5,251   10,507    5,249         -          -     21,007                -
Equipment & Vehicles                                  4,067    1,439         631       150        -       6,287      33    2,046
Establishment
Salaries & allowances                               1,512    2,138    2,299    2,366         2,450   10,765                -
Other costs                                            763    1,042    1,366    1,416        1472    6,059          5       303
Sub-total                                        2,275    3,180    3,665    3,782         3,922   16,824                303
Total (before contingency)                      11,593   15,126    9,545    3,932         3,922   44,118              2,349        41,769   2,349   44,118          4,641   261    4,902
Physical contingencies                                 1,138    1.774        978       156        147    4,193                217
Total                                           12,731   16,900   10,523    4,088         4,069   48,311              2,566
Cooperative Training (Annex 19)
Civil Works                                            1,593    2,784    2,312         -          -       6,689
Furniture, equipment & vehicles                          350       195       255       -          -         800      12       101
Establishment
Salaries & wages                                        85       327      554        687        687    2,340                -
Other costs                                             32        53        86       101         96       368
Sub-total                                          117       380       640       788.        783    2,708                - 
Total (before contingency)                       2,060    3,359    3,207          788        783   10,197                101       10,096      101   10,197          1,122     11    1,133
Physical contingencies                                   117       292       264        10         10       693                 4                                                                   o
Total                                           2,177    3,651    3,471          798        793   10,890                105                                                                   o J
Extension Training (Annex 20)
Civil Works                                            1,130    2,261    1,129         -          -       4,520               -
Equipment & vehicles                                     476       925       561       -          -       1,962      17       336
Establishment
Salaries & wages                                        81       328      565        588        588    2,150                -
Other costs                                             49       205       271       278        294    1.097
Sub-total                                           130       533      836        866        882    3,247                -
Total (before contingency)                       1,736    3,719    2,526          866        882    9,729                336        9,393      336    9,729          1,044    37    1,081
Physical contingencies                                    187       399       233        28         29       876                22
January 17, 19f?tal                                              1,923    4,118    2,759         l924       gTi   10,605                358



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Foreign
-----------------YEAR ----------------                             Exchange
1         2         3         4          5         Total          b       Rs.'000           Local          Foreign   Total    Local          Foreign        Total
---(Thousand Rupees)--------    --(US $ Equivalent)---------
Land Survey and Records (Annex 21)                                                                                                                                                   @ Rs. 9 = us$ I
Civil Works                                  915    1,830        915       __        __          3,660
Equipment & Vehicles                         591        529      204       --         --         1,324         15           208
Establishment
Salaries & Wages                        19,671    19,205   1,515         157       --        40,548
Other Costs                                320       370       126       --        --            816          9            73
Sub-total                              19,991    19,575   1,641          157       --        41,364                       73
Total (before contingencies)            21,497   21Y934   2,760          157       __         46,348                     281        46,067              281   46,348       5,119          31         5,150
Physical Contingencies                       339       646       391        24       __          1 400
Total                                   21,836   22,580   3,151          181      --         47t7fl                      281
Farm Implements (Annex 22)
Equipment & Vehicles                       1,542        521      265        10         10        2,348         21           496
Establishment
Salaries & Wages                           388       626      665        665       665         3,009                     --
Other Costs                                187       295       342       342       342         1.508          7           115
Sub-total                                  575       921   1, 007    1,007       1,007         4,517                     115
Total (before contingencies)             2,117     1,442   1,272    1,017        1,017         6,865                      611        6,254              611    6,865         695          68            763
Physical contingencies                        93         42       40        35         35           245                      27
Total                                    2,210     1,484   1,312       1,052     1,052         7,110                      638
Cr-n,d-atAr S,-rvey and Mnnitnring (Annx 21
Equipment & Vehicles                       4,407     2,202       629       100        100        7,438         28        2,064
Establishment
Salaries & Wages                         1,202     1,202   1,202       1,202     1,202         6,010
Other Costs                                220       500      435        500       500         2,155         10           215
Sub-total                                1,422     1,702   1,637       1,702     1,702         8,165                     215        13,324            2,279    15,603      1,480         253          1,733
Total (before contingencies)             5,829     3,904   2,266       1,802     1,802        15,603                   2,279
Physical contingencies                       168        358      184       137        137           984                     139
Total                                    5,997    4,262   2,450        1,939     1,939        16,587                   2,418
Shallow Tubewell (Annex 24)
Equipment & Vehicles                         209        298      150       --        __            657         19           122
Establishment                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
Salaries & Wages                           260       208      172        --        --            640                     --
Other Costs                                  9         27       45       __        __             81
Sub-total                                  2         235      217        --        -721                                   122
Total (before contingencies)               478       533       367       --        __          1,378                      122        1,256              122     1,378        139          14            153
Physical Contingencies                        62         71       45       --         --            178        10            18
Total                                      540       604      412        --        --          1,556          9           140
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Foreign
---------------- Year ------------------                         Exchange
1          2         3        4        5        Total         7     Rs '000     Local    Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign    Total
(Thousand Rupees)              (US Dollar Equivalent)
(@ Rs9 = US$1)
Farm Management Data Unit (Annex 25)
Equipment & vehicles                              502        236      -        -        -            738       19        143
Establishment
Salaries & wages                                493      1,456     1,456    1,456    1,456       6,317                  26
Other costs                                     103        153       140      140       140        676        7         49
Sub-total                                     596      1,609     1 596    1, 596    1596       6,993                  75
Total (before contingency)                  1,098      1,845     1,596    1,596    1,596       7,731                  218      7,513       218      7,731         835         24      859
Physical contingencies                              10         15        14       14        14         67        7          5
Total                                       1,108      1,860     1,610    1,610    1,610       7,798                  223
Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing (Annex 26)
Equipment & vehicles                            2,454      1,317     1,095      251       103      5,220       26      1,400
Establishment
Salaries & wages                              2,684      4,301     6,047    6,047    6,047      25,126               ---
Other costs                                     643        923     1.191    1,191    1.191       5,139        5         252
Sub-total                                   3,327      5,224     7,238    7,238    7,238      30,265                 252
Total (before contingency)                  5,781      6,541     8,333    7,489    7,341      35,485                1,652     33,833     1,652    35,485        3,759        184    3,943
Physical contingencies                              38         49        59       58        58        262                __
Total                                       5,819      6,590     8,392    7,547    7,399      35,747                1,652
Total before contingencies                       70,431     91,585    55,585   27,996   26,922    272,519         4     10,901    260,986    11,533   272,519        28,999      1,281   30,280
Physical contingencies                            2,792      4,925     3 147      654       624     12.142        4         439     11.703       439    12,142        1,300         49    1.349
Total                                      73,223     96,510    58,732   28,650   27,546    284,661         4     11,972    272,689    11,972   284,661        30,299      1,330   31,629
Price contingencies/rounding                     9,707      23,770    20,708    9.640   11,514      75,339        4      2.614      72,725     2,614    75.339        8,081        290    8,371
Grand Total                                82,930    120,280    79,440   38,290   39,060    360,000                14,586    345,414    14,586   360,000       38,380      1,620   40,000
January 17, 1977
o u



ANNEX 16
Table .1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
--YEAR---------------YEA------------------                              Foreign Exchange
1          2           3           4           5           Total           7    Rs.'000
Civil Works (Table 2)                   11,240      22,481      11,240         --          --         44,961
Physical Contingencies (5%)               562      1,124         562                    2--48
Sub-Total                             11,802      23,605      11,802         --          __         47,209
Furniture & Office Equipment (Table 2)  --            --         1,924         __                      1,924          --         65
Vehicles (Table 3)
Direct Purchase                        1,756       3,142       1,210          270        __          6,378         40.0    2,541
Loans                                     750      1,500       1,500        1,150        --4,900
Sub-Total                              2j506       4,642       2,710        1,420        --         11,278
Sub-Total (Furniture, Office
Equipment & Vehicles)      2,506       4,642       4,634        1,420        --         13,202                  2,606
Physical Contingencies                  --          --           192         __          __            192                      7
Sub-Total                              2,506       4,642       4,826        1,420                   13,394         19.5    2,613
In-Service & Special Training (Table 5)
Within Orissa                             250        325         325          325         325        1,550
Fellowships in India                       90         90          90           90          90          450
AEO University Courses                     60        120         120          120         120          540
Fellowships Abroad                      --          --            54           81          81          216         90.0       194
Sub-Total                                400         535         589          616         616        2,756         70.0       194
Establishment
Incremental Staff Salaries (Table 4)
Project Headquarters                    24          24          24           24          24          120
Agricultural Range                     532         718       1,173        1,462       1,724        5,609
Agricultural District                  363         507         627          651         651        21799
Sub-Total                              919       1,249       1,824        2,137       2,399       8,528
Travel Allowances (Table 5)              2399        2,724       3,578        4 252       4625        17578                     570
Sub-Total (staff costs)                3,318       3,973       5,402        6,389       7,024       26,106                    570
Operating (Table 5)
Vehicles                                  83         281         458          534         549        1,905         10.0       191
Others                                   695       1,270       1,390        1,390       1,390        6,135                     23
Sub-Total                                778       1,551       1,848        1,924       1,939        8,040
Physical Contingencies (10%)               78        155         185          192         194          804
Sub-Total Operating                      856       1,706       2,033        2 116       2 133        8,844
Sub-Total Establishment                4,174       5,679       7,435        8,505       9,157       34,950          2.4       784
Total (Excl. Contingencies)           18,242      33,182      23,713       10,349       9,579       95,065          3.8    3,584
Physical Contingencies                   640       1,279         939          192         194        3,244                      7
Grand Total                           18,882      34,461      24,652       10,541       9,773       98,309          3.6    3,591
Totals with Contingencies               11,802      23,605      11,802         --          __         47,209          --       __
Civil Works                            2,506       4,642       4,826        1,420        --         13,394         19.5    2,613
Establishment
Staff & Labor (Incl. Fellowships)  3,718         4,508       5,991        7,005       7,640       28,862          2.6       764
Operating                              856       1,706       2,033        2           2,133        8,844          2.4       214
Total                               18,882      34,461      24,652       10,541       9,773       98,309          3.6    3.591
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs
Incremental Investments in Buildings and Office Equipment
(Rupees thousands)
2                                                                                           Foreign
Area      Cost/8          No. of                        --YEAR-----------                                    Exchange
i         (Rs./M2)        Units        Cost/Unit        1      2       3       4       5       Total         %        Rs.'000
Civil Works
Buildings
Housing                                                              1/
DDA           - Type C                130          550              7            72           126    252    126                        504
SMS/DAO       - Type D                 90          550             66 2/         50           825  1,650    825    -          -     3,300
AEO 5/                                 46.7        450            250 3/         21         1,313  2,625  1,312    -          -     5,250
VLW                                    28.9        450         2,000 4/          13         6,500 13,000  6.500    -          -    26,000
Subtotal Housing                                                                          8,764 17,527  8,763    -         -    35,054
Offices
Range                                 440          550             10 6/        242           605  1,210    605    -          _     2,420
District                              220          550              6 7/        121           181    363    182    -         -         726
Subtotal Offices                                                                            786  1,573    787    -         _      3,146
Site Development (10%)                                                                            955  1,910    955    -         -     3,820
Professional Fees (7%)                                                                            735  1,471    735    -         -      2,941
Subtotal                                                                                   11,240 22,481 11,240    -          -    44,961
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                                                   562  1.124    562    -          -     2,248
Total Civil Works                                                                        11,802 23,605 11,802    -          -    47,209
Furniture and Office Equipment
Range Office                                                       10             8.0         -       -        80    -        -         80
District Office                                                     6             4.0         -       -        24    -        -         24
AEO 5/                                                            250             1.5          -      -       375    -        -        375
VLW 5/                                                          2,000             0.4          -      -       800    -        -        800
Equipment for Visual Aids                                          45            15.0          -      -       645    -        -        645          10           65
Subtotal                                                                                    -       -    1,924    -         -     1,924                       65
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                                -       -       192    -        -        192                        7
Total Furniture and Office Equipment                                                        -       -    Z,Ilb    -         -     2,116                        72
Total (excluding contingencies)                                                            11,240 224481- 13,164    -         -    46,885
Physical Contingencies                                                                        562  1,124    754    -          -      2,440
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                11,802 23,605 13,918    -          -    49,325                        72
1/ One per new agricultural range;
2/ 40% of total DAO housing requirement; two per agricultural range, one-third of total SMS housing;
3/ 35% of total requirement;
4/ 35% of total requirement;
5/ Also used as office;
6/ At present only three range offices; total of 13 required;
7/ At present 24 offices for DAO; total of 30 required.
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DRVELOPM?NT PROJECT
Agricultural ExLension Costs
Incremental Investment in Vehicles
--------- Total -----
Required                   Unit          - - - - - - - - - - - - - Y E A R - - - - - - - -                     Foreign Exchange
Lme_                Total  Existing  Net   Cost-           1               2                3               4         Total       %       Rs '000
__________________  -   -                       ~~~Thousand   Rupees
(Numbers in Parenthesis)
Vehicle Investment
- By DAFP
Range Hq.
For DDA                           Car                   13        2        11    32       (4)   128       (5)   160        (2)    64                       352       25         88
4 W.D. Diesel        13        2 -      11    50       (4)   200       (5)   250        (2)   100                       550       25        138
Pick-up Diesel       13                 13    62       (4)   248       (6)   372        (3)   186                       806       25        202
Minibus Diesel       13                 13    90       (2)   180       (4)   360        (4)   360        (3)   270    1,170       25        293
District Headquarters
For DAO and ADAO                    4 W.D. Diesel         90       203/      70    50      (20) 1.000      (40) 2.000       (10)   500                     3.500       25        875
Sub-total DAFP                                                                                    1,756            3,142           1,210              270    6,378               1,596
- As Loans to Extension Staff
AEO                                 Motorcycles 4/       700                        5    (100)   500    (200) 1,000    (200) 1,000    (200) 1,000   3,500               25       875
VLW                                 Bicycles 5/        2,800                        0.5  (500)   250  (1,000)   500  (1,000)   500    (300)   150    1,400               5         70
Sub-total as Loans                                                                                   750           1,500            1,500           1,150   4,900                  945
Total Investment in Vehicles                                                                              2,506           4,642            2,710            1,420  11,278                2,541
1/ Prices exclude Orissa sales tax.
2/ To be retained, further two to be scrapped.
3/ To be retained, further ten to be scrapped.
4/  500 motorcycles @ Rs 6,000 and 200 mopeds @ Rs 2,500.
50% already have bicycles.
August 13, 1976
ra 



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVSLOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries
Foreign
Unit l/        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Y E A R - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                          Exchange
Cost           1                2                3                4                5          Total         (
Thousand Rupees
(Numbers in Parenthesis)
Project Headquarters
Additional Director                      23.6       (1)  24          (1)  24          (1)  24          (1)  24          (1)  24          120
Agricultural Rage
(Revenue Division)
Range DDA                                16.8       (7) 118          (7) 118          (7) 118          (7) 118          (7) 118          590
District Training Officer                10.5      (13) 137         (13) 137         (13) 137         (13) 137         (13) 137          685
SMS - Agronomy                           10.5       (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          370
SMS - Farm Management                    10.5                        (6)  63         (12) 126         (12) 126         (12) 126          441
SMS - Water Management                   10.5       (2)  21          (6)  63         (12) 126         (12) 126         (12) 126          462
SMS - Plant Protection                   10.5       (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          370
SMS - Horticulture                       10.5       (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          (7)  74          370
Additional SMS 2/                         8.5                                        (30) 255         (60) 510         (90) 765        1,530
Drivers_3/                                4.8      (14)  34         (34) 115         (45) 189         (48) 223         (48) 230          791
Sub-total                                            532      .       718            1,173            1,462            1,724        5,609
Agricultural District
ADAO                                     10.5      (30)1)15         (30) 315         (30) 315         (30) 315         (30) 315        1,575
Drivers                                   4.8      (20)1 48         (60) 192         (70) 312         (70) 336         (70) 336        1,224
Sub-total                                            363              507              627              651              651        2,799
Total Incremental Salaries                                  919            1,249            1,824            2,137             2,399        8,528
cr Z
1/  Basic salaries plus dearness and other allowances, but excluding travel allowances.                                                                             |-
2/  Additional subject matter specialists to be appointed at District level.
3/ Incremental driver cost each year calculated on assumption that vehicles purchased at half price.
August 13, 1976



ANNEX 16
Table 5
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEIMOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Costs
Incremental Vehicle and Other Operatins Costs
(Thousand Rupees)
- - - - - - - - - Y E A R- - - - - - - - - -                           Foreign Exchange
1          2           3           4           5         Total         %          Rs '000
A. Vehicle Operation/Maintenance I/
- Range level                                           33         106         163        179         179        660         10           66
- District level                                        50         175         295        355         370      1.245         10          125
Sub-total                                      83        281         458         534         549     1,905                     191
B. Travel Allowances
- Incremental staff  2/                                127         141         202        245         288      1,003
- Additional allowances all staff  3/                2,122       2,133      2,176       2,207       2,237    10,875
- Motorcycle allowances AEO's  4/                      150         450      1.200       1,800      _2100       5.700         10          570
Sub-total                                  2,399       2,724       3,578       4,252       4,625    17,578                     570
C. Other Operating Costs
Publications, writing materials, etc.  5/               65         130         130         130        130        585
Office expenses  6/                                     -           90         210         210         210       720
Field trials and demonstrations  7/                    600       1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000      4,600
Transportation to demonstrations  8/                    30          50          50          50          50       230         10           23
Sub-total                                    695       1,270       1,390       1,390       1,390     6,135                       23
D. In-Service and Special Training
Within Orissa  9/                                      250         325         325         325        325      1,550
Fellowships in India  10/                               90          90          90          90         90        450
AEO University courses  11/                             60         120         120         120        120        540
Fellowships abroad  12/                                _            -           54          81         81        216         90          194
Sub-total                                    400         535         589         616         616     2,756                     194
Total before contingencies                 3,577       4,810       6,015       6,792       7,180    28,374
Physical contingencies  13/                             35          64          70          70         70        309
Total with contingencies                   3,612       4,874       6,085       6,862       7,250    28,683                     978
Notes (amounts in rupees)
1/    For incremental vebicles: cars at 0.65/km, 25,000 km/year; diesel 4-WD, pickups and minibus 0.40/km,
25,000 km/year. 50% in year of purchase
2/    DDA @ 250/month; ADAO @ 150/sionth; TO and S}5 @ 120/month
3/    Additional travel and subsistence allowances; DDA 300/month; DAO, ADAO, TO and SMS 85/month; AEO 50/month;
VLW 30/month including bicycle allowance
4/    0.30/km at 10,000 km/year; 5,000 km in year of purchase
5/    10,000 per range for printing diaries, flip charts, preparing aids, etc.
6/    15,000/new range office and 10,000/new District office
7/    Cost of running trials on contact farmers' fields and at range experimental farms, and cost of
demonstrations
8/    Transport of farmers to demonstrations
9/    Material cost for training sessions @ 250/year and 5,000/year per district for outside lectures,
transport for extension staff on field visits, etc.
10/   20-man months a year @ 4,500
11/   Ten AEO away at any one time, 5 on 12-month course and 5 on 24-month course.  Tuition costs only,
salary covered in staff costs
12/   Two in year 3, three in years 4 and 5; each two months.  Cost including fares US$3,000 per fellowship
13/   5% on other operating costs
August 16, 1976



ARM  17
Table 1
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOWEM PROJECT
Asricultural Research Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
- - - - - - - - - - YEAR       - - - - - - - - -                                         Por An 
Civil Works                             1          2           3          4           5           Total           X _____
Sub-total                          5,251      10,507      5,249         -          -           21,007          _
Pbysical Contingencies              788       1.576        787        -           -            3.151
Total                       6,039      12,083     6,036         -           -           24,158          -
Eguipment and Vehicles
Laboratory equipment                  550        645        525        150         -            1,870         80          1,496
Vehicles                             575         150         -         -           -              725         25            181
Others                             2.942         644        106         -          -            3,692         10            369
Sub-total                          4,067       1,439        631       150          -            6,287          -          2,046
Physical Contingencies               274         94         55        15          -              438          -            187
Total                       4,341       1,533       686        165          -           6,725          -           2,233
Establishment Costs
(a) Salaries and Allowances            1,512       2,138      2,299     2,366       2,450          10,765          -
(b) Other Operating Costs                 763      1,042      1,366     1,416       1,472           6,059          5            303
Physical Contingencies               76         104        136       141         147             604          5             30
Sub-total                            899       1,146      1,502     1,557       1,619           6,663          -            333
Total Establishment Costs           2,351      3,284      3,801     3,923       4,069          17,428          -
Total (Excluding contingencies)  11,593       15,126      9,545     3,932       3,922          44,118          _          2,349
Physical Contingencies            1,138       1.774        978       156         147           4,193         _             217
GRAND TOTAL                      12,731      16,900    10,523      4,088       4,069          48,311          -          2,566
Total with Contingencies
Civil Works                        6,039      12,083      6,036        -           -           24,158          -
Equipment and Vehicles             4,341       1,533        686       165          -            6,725          -          2,233
Establishment:
Staff                            1,512       2,138     2,299      2,366       2,450         10,765          -             -
Operating                          839       1.146      1.502     1,557       1.619           6.663         -             333
Total                             12,731      16,900    10,523      4,088       4,069         48,311          _           2,566
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 2
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Coastal Zone (Bhubaneshewar) Applied Research Program
(Rupees Thousands)
Area  Cost/M2    No. of                    - - - -          Year -  - - - - - -
(M2)  (Rs/M2)    Units   Cost/Unit         1         2         3       4       5     Total
Civil Works
Buildings
Covered Threshing Floors               300     250         3         75          56       113       56       -       -       225
Electric Pumping Plants                 15     500         5          8          10        20      10        -       -        40
Seed Store                            400      500         2        200         100       200      100       -       -       400
Machinery Shed, etc.                    42     600         1         25           6        12         7      -       -         25
Office Building                         22     550         2         12           6        12        6       -       -         24
Subtotal                                                                      178      357       179       -      -        714
Site Development (45%)                                                             80       161       80       -       -       321
Professional Fees (15%)                                                            39        77       39       -       -       155
Subtotal                                                                     297       595       298       -      -      1,190
Physical Contingencies (15%)                                                   45       89        45       -       -       179
Total Civil Works                                                             342      684       343       -       -     1,369
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment
Tractors @ 50 HP each                                      3         60          60       60        60       -      -        180
Tractor Accessories 1/                                                           39        39       20       -       -        98
Power Sprayers                                             7          3          21         -        -       -      -         21
Small Farm Tools                                                                 10        5         -       -      -         15
Diesel Pumps @ 10 HP each                                  3          8          24         -        -       -       -        24
Electric Pumping Set                                       5         10          20       30         -       -      -         50
Seed Processing Equipment                                                        16       23         -       -      -         39
Seed Testing Equipment                                                           20         -        -       -      -         go
Subtotal                                                                     210       157        80      -       -        447
Vehicles - 1 truck, I jeep                                                        150         -        -       -      -        150
Subtotal                                                                     360       157        80      -       -        597
Physical Contingencies (Equipment)                                             4         3         -      -       -          7
Total Equipment and Vehicles                                                 364       160        80      -       -       604
Establishment Costs
(a) Salaries and Allowances                                                      270       381       430     442    454    1,977
(b) Other Operating Costs                                                        277       330       404     414    420    1,845
Physical Contingencies (107.)                                                 28        33        40      41      42       184
Subtotal Other Operating Costs                                               305       363       444     455    462    2.029
Total Establishment Costs                                                    575       744      874      897    916    4,006
Total rexcluding Contingencies)                                                1,204    1,463    1,212       856    874    5,609
Physical Contingencies                                                             77      125        85      41      42       370
GRAND TOTAL                                                                1,281    1,588    1,297       897    916    5,979
1/  Disc plow - 3 @ 6 ea., paddy disc harrow - 3 @ 4 ea., Rotovators with cage wheels - 3 @ 5 ea.,
11 tyre cultivators - 3 P, 5.5 ea., trolley with hitching equipment - 2 @ 8 ea., offset disc harrow - 3 @4 ea.,
leveller - 2 @ 5.5 ea.
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Central Plateau Tableland Zone (Chiplima) Applied Research Program
(Thousand Rupees)
Area      Cost/M2           No. of                              - - - -               Year -  - - - - - - - -
C l r)    (Rs./M2)         Units            Cost/Unit          1           2           3           4          5          Total
Civil Works
Buildings
Laboratory building                        300          500               1                150             38          75          37          -          -            150
24-Bed dormitory                           140          550              1                  77             19          39          19          -          -             77
Staff quarters: Type C (4 rooms)           120          550               1                 66             17          33          16          -          -             66
Type D (3 rooms)           90          550             15                 50             187         375         188          -          -            750
Type E (2 rooms)           60          550             40                  33            330         660         330          -          -          1,320
Type F (1 room)            40          550             30                  22            165         330         165          -          -            660
Labor quarters                              12          500              50                  6             75         150           75          -          -            300
Covered threshing floor                    180          250               2                 45             22          45          23          -          -              90
Seed and fertilizer stores                 190          500               2                 95             47          95          48          -          -             190
Machinery shed                             130          600               1                 78             20          39          19           -          -             78
Office buildings                            25          550               2                 14              7          14           7          -          -              28
Sub-total                                                                                              927       1,855         927          -          -          3,709
Site Development (25%)                                                                                        232         464         231           -          -            927
Professional Fees (15%)                                                                                       174         348          174          -          -            696
Sub-total                                                                                            1,333       2,667       1,332          -          -          5,332
Physical contingencies (15%)                                                                           200         400         200          -          -            800
Total Civil Works                                                                                    1,533       3,067       1,532          -          -          6,132
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment
Laboratory equipment                                                                                      300         300         200           -          -            800
Laboratory facilities and furniture                                                                        -          100           -           -          -            100
Office facilities and furniture                                                                             9           7           4           -          -             20
Auxiliary power generation and
farm electrification                                                                                    100           -            -          -         -             100
Seed processing and testing equipment                                                                      36          23            -          -          -             59
Tractor (50 -NP) and accessories                                                                           95          21            -          -          -            116
Electrical pumping sets                                                   2                  7              7            7           -          -          -             14
Diesel pumps                                                              2                  7              7            7           -          -          -             14
Small farm tools                                                                                           10           5            -         -           -             15
Sub-total - equipment                                                                                  564         470         204          -          -          1,238
Vehicles - jeep, truck, minibus                                                                             225            -           -          -          -            225
Sub-total - equipment and vehicles                                                                     789         470         204          -          -           1,463
Physical contingencies (equipment 10%)                                                                  56          47          21          -          -             124
Total equipment and vehicles                                                                           845         517         225           -          -          1,587
Establishment Costs
(a) Salaries and allowances                                                                               329         437         470         483        500          2,219
(b) Other operating expenses                                                                              240         296         401         412        424          1,773          a x
Physical contingencies (operating expenses 10%/)                                                        24          30          40          41         42            177
Sub-total - Operating expenses                                                                         264         326         441         453        466          1,950
Total Establishment Costs                                                                              593         763         911          936        966         4,169
Total (excluding physical contingencies)                                                             2,691       3,870       2,407         895         924        10,787
Physical contingencies                                                                                 280         477         261           41         42         1,101
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                          2,971       4,347       2,668          936        966        11,888
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 4
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Eastern Chat - Highland Zone (Simliguda) Applied Research Program
(Rupees thousands)
Area     Cost/M2      No. of                         - - - - - - - -  Year - - - - - - - -
(M2)     (Ra/m2)    Units        Cost/Unit           1          2         3          4          5           Total
Civil Works
Buildings
Laboratory buildings                                240        600           1          144              36        72         36         -         -              144
Staff quarters:  Type C                             120       550            3           66             49         99         50         -         -              198
Type D                           90        550           9            50            113       225        112          -        -              450
Type E                           60        550          29            33            239       479        239          -        -              957
Type F                           40        550          21            22            115       231        116          -        -              442
24-Bed dormitorv                                    140       550           2            77              39        77         38         -         -              154
Labor shed                                          190       500           1            95              24        49         23         -         -               95
Threshing floor                                      20       200           1             4               1         2          1         -         -                 4
Seed store                                           35       500           1            18               4         9          5         -         -               is
Machinery shed                                       50        600          1            3n               7        15          8         -         -               31
Subtotal                                                                                            627     1,257        629          -        -            2,512
Site Development       (25%)                                                                               157        314       157          -        -               628
Prcfessinncl Fees    (15%)                                                                                 118        236       117          -        -               471
Subtotal                                                                                            902     1,807        902          -        -            3,611
Physical contingencies (15%)                                                                        135       271        135          -        -               541
Total Civil W;orks                                                                               1,037      2,078    1,037            -        -            4,152
Equipment ane Vehicles
Equipment
Tractors and accessories (2-50 HP; 2-35 HP)                                                            310          -          -         -         -              310
Laborary equipment                                                                                        -       145        125         -         -              270
laboratory furniture and filtering                                                                        -        4           -         -         -               45
Seed testing and practising equipment                                                                  100          -          -         -         -              100
Auxiliary power generator                                                                             10           -          -         -         -              100
Office equipment and furniture                                                                           5r0        -                    -         -               50
Pumps - electrical (5 HP each)                                              6            15             45         45          -         -         -               90
Pumps - diesel                                                             10             6              30)       30          -         -         -               60
Farm implements                                                                                         45         25          -         -         -               70
Subtotal                                                                                            680       290        121          -        -            1,095
Vehicles - jeePs with trailers                                                  3            50            100         50         -          -        -               150
Subtotal                                                                                            789        340       125          -        -            1,245
Phvsical contingencies (equipment)                                                                   30        20         12          -        -                62
Total Equipment and Vehicles                                                                        810       360        137          -        -            1,307
Establishment Costs
(a) Salaries and allowances                                                                                    184        395       422        434      456             1,891
(b) Other operating expenses                                                                                   101        182        266       276       292            1,117
Physical contingencies                                                                               10         18        26         28       29               111
Subtotal - other operating empenses                                                                 111       200        292        304      321            1,228
Total Establishment Costs                                                                           295        595       714        738      777             3,119
Total (excluding contingencies)                                                                          1,967     2,724      1,715        710      748             7,864
Physical contingencies                                                                              175        309       173         28       29               714
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                              2,142     3,033      1,899       73S       777             8,578
January 4, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 5
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Northern Plateau Zone (Keonjhar) Applied Research Program
(Rupees thousands)
Area    Cost/M2    No. of                           - - - - - - - -  Year - - - - - - - -
(M2)    (Rs/M2)    Units        Cost/Unit           1         2         3          4         5          Total
Civil Works
Buildings
Laboratory building                            240        600          1         144               36        72        36          -         -          144
Staff quarters: Type C                         120        550          2           66              33        66        33         -          -          132
Type D                        90       550          10           50            125        250       125         -          -          500
Type E                        60        550         29          33             239        479       239         -          -          957
Type F                        40        550         17          22              94        187        93         -          -          374
24-Bed dormitorv                               140       550           1           77             19         39        19         -          -           77
CGodown                                          50       500          2           25              12        25        13         -          -           50
Sheds, labor, machinery                         95       600           2           57             29         57        28         -          -          114
Covered threshing floor                        200       250           1           53             12         25        13         -          -           50
Subtotal                                                                                       599    1,200         599         -         -         2,398
Site Development (257)                                                                               150       300       150          -         -           600
Psofessional Fees (15%)                                                                              113       225       112          -         -           450
Subtotal                                                                                       862    1,725         861         -          -        3,448
Physical contingencies (15%)                                                                   129       259        129         -          -          517
Total Civil Works                                                                              991    1,984         990         -          -        3,965
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment
Laboratory equipment                                                                              100       200       200       150          -          650
Laboratory facilities and furniture                                                                 -        45         -          -                      45
Seed processing and testing units                                                                100          --                                        100
Tractors (2 - 35 HP; 1 - 50 77P) and
accessories                                                                                     150         75         -         _          -          225
Farm implements 1/                                                                                 60        25        22          -         -           107
Pumps ( 4 - 5 7P, electric;
5 - 5 HP, diesel)                                                                                33         27         _    -               -           60
Auxiliary power generator                                                                         100         -         -          _         _          130
Office facility and furniture                                                                    120          -         -          -         -           120
Subtotal                                                                                       663        372       222       150          -        1,407
Vehicles - jeeps with trailers                                             X          50              50       100          -         -         -           150
Subtotal                                                                                       713       472        222       150         -         1,557
Physical contingencies                                                                          48         26        22        15          -          111
Total [quipment and Vehicles                                                                   761       498        244       165          -        1,668
Establishment Costs
(a) Salaries and allowances                                                                              256       436       471        482       494         2,139
(b) Other operating expenses                                                                             130       214        275       292       312         1,223
Fhysical contingencies (105)                                                                    13         21        28        29         31          122
Subtotal                                                                                         143        235       303       321        343        1,345
Total Establishment Costs                                                                         399       671       774       803        837        3,484
Total (excluding contingencies)                                                                    1,961     2,847     1,829        924       806        8,367
Physical contingencies                                                                           190        3n6       179        44         31          750
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                        2,151     3,153     2,008        968       337        9,117
1/ Power, tiller, sprayers, thresher, others.
January 4, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 6
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEV8LOPMENr PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Research Coordination Unit (Bhubaneswar) Applied Research Program
(Thousand Rupees)
No. of                        - - - - Y E A R - - - - - - - - - -
Units       1          2           3           4          5           Total
Equipment and Vehicles
Eauinment:
Calculator, electronic                                 1            15                                                         15
Typewriter                                             1             5                                                          5
Total Equipment                                                        20                                                         20
Vehicle                                        1 - 4 wheel drive       50                                                         50
Total Equipment and Vehicle                                            70                                                         70
Establishment Costs
(a)    Salaries:
Director of Research                                              42          42          42          42        42         210
Statistician                                                      18          18          18          18         18          90
Support Staff                                                     30          30          30          30         30         150
Sub-total                                                         90          90          90          90         90        450
(b)    Allowances                                                          17          17          17          18         20          89
(c)    Other operating expenses                                            15          20          20          22         24         101
Physical contingencies                                             1           2           2           2          3          10
Sub-total                                                           16          22          22          24         27         111
Total Establishment Costs                                          123         129         129         132        137         650
Total (excluding contingencies)                                    192         127         127         130        134         710
hysical contingencies                                        1           2           2           2          3          10
GRAND TOTAL                                                               193         129         129         132        137         720
August 11, 1976



ANNEX 17
Table 7
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTlURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Costs
Adaptive Research Project (13 Farms) Applied Research Program
(Rupees thousands)
Area     Cost/M2      No. of                                              Year - - - - - - - -
(M2)     (Rs/m2)    Units        Cost/Unit            1         2          3         4          5         Total
Cfivil Norks
Buildings
Staff quiarters: Type C                         120        550         10           66             165        330       165          -          -           660
Type D                         90       550          14           50             175       350        175         -          -            700
Type E                         60       550          40           33             330       660        330         -          -          1,320
Type F                         40       550          35           22             193       385        192         -          -            770
Storage, office and shed                        240        550         13          132             429        855       429          _          _         1,716
Subtotal                                                                                       1,292     2,583      1,291          -         -          5,166
Ste Development 25P'                                                                                   323       646        323          -         -          1,292
Professional Fees  15%                                                                                 242       48',       242         -          -            968
Subtotal                                                                                       1,857     3,713      1,856          -         -          7,426
Physical contingencies 15%                                                                       279        557       278          -         -          1,114
Total Civil Works                                                                              2,136     4,270      2,134          -          -         8,540
No. of
1CuiPment                                                                     Farms
Tractors                                                                 9                         450          -          -         -          -            450
Tmplements                                                               9                         180          -          -         -          -            180
Spravers and dusters                                                   11                            67         -          -         -          -             67
Power tillers                                                            2                           45         -          -         -          -             45
Thresher                                                                 5                           27         -          -         -          -             27
TPumps                                                                   3                           20         -          -         -          -             20
Seed processing equipment                                              12                          240          -          -         -          -            240
Laboratory equipment                                                   13                          130          -          -         -          -            130
Flectricity                                                              9                         170          -          -         -          -            170
Office equipment and furniture                                                                       26         -          -         -          -             26
Subtotal                                                                                       1,355          -         -          -         -          1,355
Physical contingencies                                                                           136          -         -          -          -            136
Total Equipment                                                                                1,491          -         -          -         -          1,491
'tablishment Costs
(a) Salaries
Research officers - 13                                                                           109       117        125        133       141            625
Research assistants - 26                                                                         148       156        165        175       186            830
Subtotal                                                                                         257       273        290        308       327          1,455
(b) Allowances                                                                                          109       109        109       109        109            545
Total Establishment Costs                                                                        366        382       399        417       436          2,000
Total (excluding contingencies)                                                                     3.578      4,095    2,255         417        436         10,781
Physical contingencies                                                                           415        557       278          -         -          1,250
GRAND TnTAL                                                                                          3,993     4,652      2,533       417        436         12,031
Tanuary 4, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Training Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Year                                       Foreign Exchange
%Rs '000
1         2          3         4          5        Total           -
Civil Works
Land                             560       112        -          -         -          672
Civil Works                   1,033      2,672      2,312       -          -        6,017
Physical Contingency 10%         104       267        231        -         -          602
Total Civil Works          1,697      3,051      2,543       -          -        7,291
Furniture, Equipment & Vehicles
Furniture & Equipment              105       195        255        -         -          555         7           39
Physical Contingency 10%          10        20         25        -         -           55         7            4
Sub-total                    115        215        280       -          -          610         7           43
Vehicles                           245       -          -          -         -          245        25           62
Total Furniture,
Equipment and Vehicles    360         215        280       -          -          855        12         105
Establishment
Salaries & Allowances             85       327        554        687       687      2,340
Other Operating                   32        53         86        101         96       368
Physical Contingency               3          5         8         10        10         36
Sub-total                     35         58         94       111        106        404
Total Establishment          120        385        648        798       793      2,744
GRAND TOTAL                2,177      3,651      3,471       798        793    10,890
Totals
Civil Works                    1,593     2,784      2,312        -         -        6,689
Equipment & Vehicles             350       195        255        -         _          800        12          101
Establishment
Salaries & Allowances         85        327        554       687        687      2,340
Other                          32        53         86       101         96        368
Sub-tdtal                  117        380        640       788        783      2,708
Physical Contingencies           117       292        264         10        10        693         1            4
GRAND TOTAL                2,177      3,651      3,471       798        793    10,890         10          105
January 3, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Training Costs
Summary by Unit
(Thousand Rupees)
Vehicles     Total                               Total
and       Capital                            Operating
Buildings    Equipment      Costs      Salaries    Other        Costs       Total
CCB Training                       2,441          170         2,611       1,174         34        1,208       3,819
Training Officer Costs                -             35           35          80         50          130         165
Cooperatives College               1,952          260         2,212         288         85          373       2,585
Training Center Gopalpur              672         130           802         322         83          405       1,207
Training Center Bargarh             19624         205         1,829         476        116          592       2,421
TOTAL                               6,689         800         7,489       2,340      1,368        2,708      10,197
January 3, 1977
m >4



ANNEX 19
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Training Costs
Buildings, Vehicles, Fuirniture and duiment
(Thousand Rupees
Foreign
-----  Year  -----                     Exchange
1      2       3     Total          i    Rs'000
Cooperatives College, Bhubaneswar
Purchase of land                    250       -       -      250          -        -
Civil works                         102    800    800    1,702            -        -
Furniture                             -      25     25        50          -        -
Kitchen equipment and utensils        -      10       5       15          -        -
Printing equipment                     -     15      30       45         10        4
Teaching aids and equipment          20      20     40        80         10        8
Bus                                  70       -       -       70         25       18
Sub-total                       W2    570-   900     2,212
Training Center, Gopalpur
Civil works                         200    472       -       672          -        -
Furniture                             -      20       -       20          -        -
Teaching equipment                   20      20      -        40         10       4
Bus                                  70       -      -        70         25      17
Sub-total                       290    712       -      802                  21
Training Center, Bargarh
Purchase of land                    200       -      -       200          -        -
Civil works                         124    650    650    1,424            -       -
Furniture                             -      25     25        50          -       -
Kitchen equipment and utensils        -       -     20        20         10       2
Teachina aids and equipment          15       -     25        40         10       4
Office equipment                      -       -     25        25         10       3
Bus                                  70       -      -        70         25      18
Sub-total                      409    677    7i4    1,d29 I27
Central Cooperative Banks
Purchase of land                    110    112       -       222          -       -
Civil works                         607    750    862    2,219            -       -
Furniture                            10      12     12        34          -       -
Kitchen equipment                    40      48     48       136         10      14
Sub-total                      777    922    922    2,611                    i;
Training Officer
Vehicle                              35       _               35        25        9
Total                        1,943  2,979  2,567    7,489            1.3   101
Physical contingencies 1/           114    287    256       657                   9
Grand total                   2,057  3,266  2,823    87146                  110
1/  10% on all items except land & vehicles.
August 18, 1976



ANNEX 19
Table 4
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Training Costa
Increaental Salaries & Operating
(Rupees)
______----  Year   --- -
1/          1         2           3            4            5         Total
Bhubaneswar
Salaries
Two lecturers            1200             -     14,400      28,800       28,800      28,800      100,800
One executive officer     800             -      4,800        9,600       9,600        9.600      33,600
Four subordinates         200             -      4,800       9,600        9,600       9,600       33,600
TA for lecturers        1,500/year        -      1,500       3,000        3,000       3,000       10,500
Trainee stipend           130 2/                15 600      31,200       31,200      31,200      109,200
Sub-total                               -     41.100      82,200       82.200      82,200      287,700
Other
Maintenance & repair                      -          -       10,000      15,000      20,000       45,000
Vehicle operating                         -     10,000       10 000      10,000      10,000       40,000
Sub-total                               -     10,000      20,00        25,000      30,000       85,000
Total Incremental (Bhubaneswar)         -     51,100     102,200      107,200     112,200      372,700
Bargarh
Salaries
Three lecturers           800             -     14,400       28,800      28,800      28,800      100,800
TA for lecturers        1,500             -      1,500        3,000       3,000       3,000       10,500
One clerk typist          350             -      2,100       4,200        4,200       4,200       14,700
Three subordinates        200             -      3,600        7,200       7,200       7,200       25,200
Trainee stipend:
80 new trainees          75             -     36,000       72,000      72,000      72,000      252,000
40 trainees              25        12,000     12,000      12,000       12,000      12,000       60,000
Staff training          1,100         3,300      6,600       3,300            -           -       13,200
Sub-total                          15,300     76,200     130,500      127,200     127,200      476,400
Other
Building maintenance                      -          -      10,000       15,000      20,000       45,000
Office expenses                           -      3,000        6,000       6,000       6,000       21,000
Vehicles - operating                 10,000     10,000      10,000       10 000      10 000       50 000
Sub-total                          10,000     13,000      26,000       31,000      36.000      116,000
Total Incremental (Bargarh)        25,300     89,200     156,500      158,200     163,200      592,400
Gopalpur
Salaries
One lecturer              800             -      9,600        9,600       9,600       9,600       38,400
TA for lecturer         1,500             -      1,500        1,500       1,500        1,500       6,000
Trainee stipend:
40 new trainees          75             -     36,000      36,000       36,000      36,000      144,000
80 trainees              25        24,000     24,000      24,000       24,000      24,000      120,000
Staff training          1,100         6.600      6,600            -           -            -      13 200
Sub-total                          30,600     77,700      71,100       71,100      71,100      321,
Other
Building maintenance                      -      5,000       8,000       10,000      10,000       33,000
Vehicle operating                    10,000     10,000       10,000      10.000       10.000      50.000
Sub-total                          10,000     15,000      18,000       20,000      20,000       83,000
Total Incremental (Gopalpur)       40,600     92,700       89,100      91,100      91,100      404,600
17 CCBs
Salaries
Lecturers                  800        9,600     48,000      105,600     163,200      163,200     489,600
TA for lecturers        1,500         1,500      7,500       16,500      23,500       23,500      72,500
Trainee allowances          75       12,000     60 000      132,000     204,000      204 000     612 000
Sub-total                          23,100    115,500     254,100      390,700     390,700   1,174,100
Other
Cost of seminars                      2,000      5,000       12,000      15,000            -      34,000
Total Incremental (17 CCBs)        25,100    120,500      266,100     405,700     390,700   1,208,100
Cost of Training Officer
Salaries
Salaries                1,200        14,400     14,400      14,400       14,400      14,400       72,000
TA                      1,500         1,500      1.500        1,500       1.500        1,500       7,500
Sub-total                          15,900     15,900       15,900      15,900      15,900       79,500
Other
Vehicle operating                    10,000     10,000       10,000      10,000       10,000      50,000
Total Incremental
(Cost of Training Officer)  25,900      25,900      25,900       25,900      25,900      129,500
GRAND TOTAL                       116,900    379,400      639,800     788,100      783,100   2,707,300
1/ Monthly unit cost for salaries & stipends.
2/ New trainees only.
January 3, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Training Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)                                        Foreign
---------------     Year       -----------                          Exchange
1         2         3 -       4       5      Total             %      Rs 'OOO
Civil works                              1,130     2,261      1,129                       4,520
Physical contingencies (15%)             170        339       169                         678
Sub-total                           1,___     2, -ff     l,:E                        5,198
Equipment & vehicles
Equipment                                  122       400        365                         887            8        68
Physical contingencies (10%)              12        40         37                          89
Sub-total                             134       440        402                         976
Vehicles                                   354       525        196                       1,075           25       268
Total equipment & vehicles               488       965        598                       2,051
Establishment
Salaries & allowances                     81       328        565     588     588       2,150
Other operating                           49       205        271     278      294      1,097
Physical contingencies                  5        20         27      28       29        109
Sub-total                              54       225        298     306     323       1,206
Total establishment                   135       553        863     894     911       3,356
GRAND TOTAL                         1,923     4,118      2,759     894     911      10,605
Totals
Civil works                         1,130     2,261      1,129                       4,520
Equipment & vehicles                  476       925        561                       1,962
Establishment costs                   130       533        836     866     882       3,247
Sub-total                         1,736     3,719      2,526     866     882       9,729            4       336
Physical contingencies                187       399        233      28      29         876                     22
GRAND TOTAL                         1,923     4,118      2,759     894     911      10,605                    358
January 17, 1977                                                                                                         t|
CX



ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Training Centers
(Rs.'000)
2
Arga        Cost/M          No. of                            ----------------YEAR------_______
(M4)l      (Rs/M4)           Units         Cost/Unit          1        2         3         4         5         Total
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings
Hostels to accommodate 200        1,330           550              1              732           183        366,      183        -        -          732
Hostel  to accommodate  40          260           550              1              143            36         71        36        -        -          143
Kitchen/dining                       80           550              1               44            11         22        11        -        -           44
Kitchen/dining                      400           550              1              220            55        110        55        -        -          220
Classroom for 40 students           160           550              5               88           110        220       110        -         -         440
Laboratories                        125           600              3               75            56        113        56       -         -          225
Teaching workshops                  240           600              4              144           144        288       144        -         -         576
Hall/common room                    260           550              1              143            36         71        36       -         -          143
Administration building              30           550              1               17             4          9         4        -         -           17
Administration building             160           550              1               88            22         44        22        -         -          88
Library                             130           600              1               78            20         39        19        -         -           78
Garage and farm building            200           500              1              100            25         50        25        -         -          100
Staff quarters  Type D               90           550              5               50            62        125        63        -         _         250
Staff quarters  Type F               40           550              4               22            22         44        22        -         -          88
Sub-Total                                                                                       786      1,572       786        -         -       3,144
Site Development (25%)                                                                          197        393       196        -                    786
Professional Fees (15%)                                                                         147        296       147        -         -          590
Sub-Total                                                                                     1,130      2,261    1,129         -         -       4,520
Physical Contingencies (15%)                                                                    170        339       169       -          _          678
Total Civil Works                                                                             1,300      2,600    1,298         -         -        5,198
Vehicles and Equipment
Furniture                                                                                        -          -        118        -         -          118
Teaching and visual aid equipment                                                                 -         -        241        -         -          241
Workshop equipment                                                                                -         -        198                             198
Office equipment                                                                                  -         -         30        -         -           30
Library books                                                                                    -75                            -                     75 75
Kitchen utensils and equipment                                                                                        25        -         _           25            i
Vehicles: Light vehicle                                                                          54        107        54        -         _          215
55 seater bus                                                                          27         55       28                             110
Total Vehicles and Equipment                                                                     81        162       769       -          _        1.012
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                   1,381      2,762    2,067         -         -        6,210
January 17, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Extension Training Costs
Incremental Salaries & Operating
(Rupees)
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Total
Salaries                               ij
Two lecturers       @ Bhubaneswar  @  800                   19,200        19,200        19,200        19,200        19,200        96,000.
Two lecturers,      @ Gopalpur      @  800                  19,200        19,200        19,200        19,200        19,200        96,000
& Bolangir
T.A.                                @ 1500/annum             6,000         6,000         6,000         6,000         6,000        30,000
Three drivers                       @  300                  10,800        10,800        10,800        10,800        10,800        54,000
276,000
New Center:
Principal                          @ 1200                                  7,200        14,400        14,400        14,400        50,400
Four lecturers                     @ 1000                                 24,000        48,000        48,000        48,000       168,000
Five lecturers                      @  800                                24,000        48,000        48,000        48,000       168,000
Head clerk/accountant              @  600                                  3,600         7,200         7,200         7,200        25,200
Clerk                              @  350                                  2,100         4,200         4,200         4,200        14,700
Typist                             @  350                                  2,100         4,200         4,200         4,200        14,700
Three drivers                       @  300                                 5,400        10,800        10,800        10,800        37,800
Five sub-staff                      @  200                                 6,000        12,000        12,000        12,000        42,000
T.A. for Principal                  @ 3000/annum                           1,500         3,000         3,000         3,000        10,500
T.A. for lecturers                 @ 1500/annum                            6,750        13,500        13,500        13,500        47,250
578,550
Trainee Stipend
Existing centers  @ 80 x 25/-/month x 11 months                           22,000        22,000        22,000        22,000        88,000
New center:         100 x 75/-/month x 11 months                            -           82,500        82,500        82,500       247,500
80 x 100/-/month x 11 months                         22,000        66,000        88,000        88,000       264.000
599,500
Vehicle Operating
Existing centers 3 x 10,000                                 15,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000       135,000
New center        3 x lo,oOO                                              12,000        30,000        30.000        30,000       102,000
237,000
New Center Operating                                                                                                             2
Stationery and office expenses                                             3,000         6,000         6,500         7,000        22,500
Electricity/water                                                          4,000        10,000        12,000        12,000        38,000
Maintenance buildings and equipment                                       10,000        15,000        25,000        40,000        90,000
Teaching materials                                                         5,000        10,000        10,000        10,000        35,000
Farm costs                                                                 5,000        10,000         5,000         5,000        25,000
70,200      250,850       502,000       531,500       547,000       210,500
Total Incremental Operating Costs 1,901,550
1/  1plonthly unit cost for salaries.
August 20, 1976
Lac



INDIA
ORISA AGRICULTURAL DEVE;LOPMENT FPRJECT
Extensi.n Training Costs
7'rainins of Rural Women
(Rupees)
Capital Costs
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5         Total
Vehicles and Equipment
Training unit vehicles          @    75,000                225,000        525,000                                                  750,000
Visual aid eauipment            @    20,000                 60,000        140,000                                                  200.000
Total Capitat Cost            950,000
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries
Lady Training Officer         @    800/month               14,400          81,600       96,000       96,000         96,000         384.000
Demonstrator                  @    350/month                6,300          35,700       42,000       42,000         42,000        168,000
Driver                        @    300/month                5,400          30,600       36,000       36,000         36,000        144.000
Other
Vehicle running expenses      @    12,000/year             18,000         102,000      120,000      120,000        120,000        480,000
Teaching materials            @      4,000                  16,000         34,000         40,000                    40,000 4170,000
60,100         283,900     334,000      334,000        334,000
Total Incremental Operating Cost          1,346,000
Total Cost              2,296,000
August -0, 1976                                                                                                                         H
I



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEV1LOPMENT PROJHCT
Land Records and Land Survey Costs Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Foreign
----------------- Year                                       Exchange
1         2         3       4         5       Total      7.   RsU?ITT
Civil Works                                        915      1,830       915                       3,660
Physical Contingencies (10%)                     229        457       229                         915
Total                                        1,144      2,287    1,144                        4,575
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment                                           345       529       204                       1,078    15        146
Physical Contingencies (10%)                        3         5         2                          10      _        15
Sub-total Equipment                           348        534      206                        1,088             161
Vehicles                                           246         _        _                           246    25         62
Total Equipment and Vehicles                     594        534       206                       1,334             223
Establishment Cost
Salaries and Allowances                       19,671    19,205    1,515    157                 40,548
Physical Contingencies
(15% of Temporary Index and
Card Writing staff)                            59        129       141     24                  353
Sub-total incremental
salaries and allowances                     19,730    19,334    1,656    181                 40,901
Other Operating Costs                            320        370       126                         816      9        73
Physical Contingencies (15%)                      48         55        19                         122
Sub-total                                      368        425      145      -                   938
Total Establishment Cost                    20 098    19,759    1,801    181                 41,839
GRAND TOTAL                                ,8      22,580    3,151    1                   47,748             296
Totals (exc. physical contingencies)
Civil Works                                      915      1,830      915                        3,660
Equipment and vehicles                           591        529       204                       1,324
Establishment Cost                            19 991    19,575    1,641    157                 41,364
Sub-total                                             21,934    2,760    157                 46,348
Physical contingencies                         339        646      391      24                1.400
GRAND TOTAL                             21,836    22,580    3,151    181                47,748
January 17, 1977
szB



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Record Building
(Rs.'000)
2
Aria        Cost/M         No. of         Cost/         ----------------YEAR-----------------
(Rs./M2)             Units          Unit          1         2         3        4         5         Total
Civil Works
Record Buildings
Rural                                                       72           500             53            36           477     954       477        -         -        1,908
Urban                                                      144           500             13            72           234     468       234        -         -           936
Sub-Total                                                                                                           711   1,422       711        -         -        2,844
Site Development (10%)                                                                                                 71     142        71        -         -           284
Professional Fees (17%)                                                                                               133     266       133        -         -           532
Sub-Total                                                                                                           915   1,830       915        -         -         3,660
Physical Contingencies (25%)                                                                                        229     457       229        -         -           915
TOTAL                                                                                                             1,144   2,287    1,144         -         -         4,575
1/  Urban - Record Room for District Headquarters; size equivalent to twice Rural Record Room.  In case of Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Bolangir and Phulbani, new
construction required: others are extensions on existinR sites. Unit cost Rs. 72.000.
January 17, 1977
I9 M



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Records and Land Survey Costs
Land Record Equipment and Establishment
Foreign
-------------------  Year  -------------              Ekchanae
Item                        Unit Cost          1          2            3       4    5    Total        Rs '000o
------------   Thousand Rupees   ---------------
A.  Equipment & Furniture                                         (Numbers in Parenthesis)
Card Index EBuipment 1/            Rs 1,500    (207) 311  (317) 476  (122) 183    -    -    970   15   146
per cabinet
Record Room Furniture                                  34          53          21    -    -    108    -        -
Total before Contingencies                          345         529         204    -    -  1,078    -   146
Physical Contincencies 10t 2/                           3           5           2    -            10    -    15
Total Equipment & Furniture                         348         534         206             1,088    -   161
B. Fstablishment
Indexing Staff                                        313         626         626    -    -1,565
Card Writing, Staff                                    78         235         313  157   _       783
Total Staff                                         391         861         939  157    -  2,348
Stationery & Forms                                    100         100           -    -    -    200
Total Establishment                                 491'        961         939  157    -  2,548
Physical lontingencies 15%                             74         144         141   24    -    383
Total                                               565       1,105       1,080  181    -  2,931
1/  Numbers calculated by district accordin, to following formula  (annual aveO g   reitrations x 1l YES)
formula:    -  U,00  entries per cabinet~
2/  On furniture                                                         1.15 (to allow 15% margin).                   D x
August 10. 1976



ANNEX 21
Table 4
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Land Records and Land Survey Costs
yLadSuey _Vehicles
(Thousand Thapees)
Additionql.                         Foreign
Number        Number        Unit                 Ecchange
District     Available      feguired       Cost      Totall/ %    Rs '000
Cuttack          4              1
Dhenkanal        3              1
Baripada         2              1
Berhampur        3              1
Phulbani         2              1
Sambalpur        5              1
Total         21              6          41-/      246      25    61.5
1/ Petrol driven, 2-wheel drive.
2/ Investment all at Year 1.
kumust 9, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Records and Land Survey Costs
Land Survey Establishment
(Thousand Rupees)
Year I                             Year 2                                 Year 3                                Total
Unit   Present                         Of which,                   -        Of which,                              Of which,                    Of which,
Item                         Cost-/ Numbers          Total         Incremental            Total          Incremental           Total           Incremental         Total   Incremental
A. Salaries and wages
Supervisory staff
Survey (settlement) officers         21         6          (6)    126           -      -         (6)    126           -      -         (6)    126         -     -            378               -
Camp supervisor 2/                   16        23        (29)    464          (6)     96       (29)    464         (6)      96       (29)    464       (6)    96          1,392             288
Assistant survey officer               9      284       (440)  3,960       (156)  1,404       (336)  3,024        (52)    468       (284)  2,556          -     -         9,540           1,872
Sub-total salaries                                            4,550              1,500              3,614                564              3,146              96        11,310           2,160
Technical & field staff
Technical staff                       4    2,900    (4,400) 17,600   (1,500)  6,000   (4,400) 17,600   (1,500)  6,000    (2,900) 11,600                   -     -        46,800          12,000
Drivers                                5       21         (27)    135         (6)     30       (27)    135         (6)      30       (27)    135       (6)    30             405             90
Peons, laborers, etc.                 2.8  1,000      (5,000) 14.000   (4,000) 11,200   (5,000) 14,000   (4,000) 11,200   (1,000)  2,800                  -     -        30.800          22.400
Sub-total wages                                              31,735             17,230             31,735             17,230             14,535              30        78,005          34,490
Total salaries & wages                                       36,285             18,730             35,349             17,794             17,681             126        89,315          36,650
B. Operating Costs
Travel allowances                                                 1,500                550              1,500                 550             1,400             450          4,400           1,550
Vehicle running 3/                                                                     120           )                       120           )                     96      )                     336
Instrument repairs/service                                     ) 33,460                 40           ) 14,460                 60           ) 11,568              10      ) 59,488             110
Tents                                                          )    ___60                            )    __90                             )    _ _ _20                  )    _  _170
Total operating costs                                        34,960                770             15,960                820             12,968             576        63,888           2,166
Total and incremental
Staff and operating costs                                             71,245            19,500             51,309             18,614              30,649             702       153,203          38,816
1/  Basic salary plus dearness and other allowances but excluding travel allowances.                                                                                                                          |i
2/  Called charge officer in Orissa.
3/  Operation and maintenance at Rs 0.80 per km; 25,000 km/year first two years; 20,000 km third year.                                                                                                       UT,
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 22
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Implement Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Foreign
--------  Year   -----------             Exchange
1      2       3      4       5   Total    %  Rs'000
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment
DAFP                               524    111       55      -       -    690   12      82
OUAT                               211      10     10      10      10    251   26      65
Sub-total                        735    121      65      10     10    941           147
Physical contingencies (10%)    74        12       6      1       1     94           15
Sub-total                        809    133      71      11     11  1,035           162
Vehicles
DAFP                               757    400    200                   1,357   25    337
OUAT                                50                                    50   25      12
Sub-total                        807    400    200                   1,407          349
Total Equipment & Vehicles   1,616    533    271         11      11  2,442          511
Establishment Cost
Salaries and Allowances
DAFP                               212    338    387    387    387  1,711
OUAT                               176    288    278    278    278  1,298
Sub-total                        388    626    665    665    665  3,009
Other Operating Costs
DAFP                               170    267    314    314    314  1,379    8    107
OUAT                                17      28     28      28      28    129    6       8
Sub-total                        1827 95    342    342    342  1,508                115
Physical contingencies            19      30     34      34     34    151            12
Sub-total                        206,   325    376    376    376  1.659             127
Total Establishment Cost         594    951  1,041  1,041  1,041  4,668
GRAND TOTAL                  2,210  1,484  1,312  1,052  1,052  7,110             638
Totals (exc. contingencies)
Equipment & Vehicles
DAFP                           1,281    511    255                   2,047
OUAT                             261      10     10      10     10    301
Establishment Cost               1,542    521    265       10     10  2,348           496
DAFP                             382    605    701    701    701  3,090
OUAT                             193    316    306    306    306  1,427
Sub-total                      2,117  1,442  1,272  1,017  1,017  6,865            115
Physical contingencies            93      42     40      35     35    245            27
Total                          2,210  1,484  1,312  1,052  1,052  7,110            638
August 31, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Implement Costs
OUAT Farm Implement Design Unit - Workshop Equipment and Vehicles Costs
Number      -         Y E A R - - - - - -                     Foreign Exchange
Units       1      2       3       4      5       Total         %       Rs  00.0
Equipment                                                          (Thousand  Rupees)
Forge with 1 H.P. blower                        1          4                                       4
Gas welding plant                             one set      6                                       6
Hand shearing machine                           1          2                                       2
Guillotine shearing machine                      1        18                                      18
Power hammer                                    1         10                                      10
Heat treatment equipment -
furnaces and oil bath                       one set    25                                       25          10         25
Material destruction testing
equipment                                   one set    50                                       50
Sheet rolling machine - hand/power
driven 12 ft. widths                          1         18                                      18
Sprayer testing rig                             1         10                                      10
Vibrating press for concrete pre-
fabricated structure                          1         18                                      18
Improved implements from other
research centers                            sets        10      10     10      10      10       50
Dynamic strain recorder                         1         40                                      40         100         40
Sub-total equipment                              211     10      10      10      10     251                      65
Vehicles
Jeep (diesel)                                   1         50                                      5          25         12
TOTAL OUAT                                       261     10      10      10      10     301                      77
August 20, 1976



INDIA
ORISS& AGRICULTURAL DEVILOPMENT P1DJIoCT
Farm Implement Costs
OUAT Farm Implement Design Unit - Staff and Other Operating Costs
Unit              - - - - -               Y E A R-               - - - - - - -                   Foreign Exchange
Cost 1'           1 it/         2              3             4              5        Total        %         Rs '000
(Thousand Rupees)
Staff and Labor Costs                                                                                     (Numbers in Parenthesis)
Chief Research Engineer                                               26.4          (1) 16        (1) 26         (1) 26        (1) 26         (1) 26         120
Research Engineer                                                     20.2          (2) 24        (2) 40         (2) 40        (2) 40         (2) 40         184
Assistant Engineer                                                    15.9          (2) 19        (2) 32         (2) 32        (2) 32         (2) 32         147
Senior Research Assistants                                            11.8          (6) 43        (6) 72         (6) 72        (6) 72         (6) 72         331
Mechanics                                                              7.3          (4) 17        (4) 29         (4) 29        (4) 29         (4) 29         133
Draftsmen                                                              7.3          (1)  4        (1)  7         (1)  7        (1)  7         (1)  7          32
Storekeeper/Clerk                                                      5.1         (2)  6         (2) 10         (2) 10        (2) 10         (2) 10          46
Stenographers                                                          8.7          (1)  5        (1)  9         (1)  9        (1)  9         (1)  9          41
Peons and Helpers                                                      3.8          (4)  9        (4) 15         (4) 15        (4) 15         (4) 15          69
Drivers                                                                4.8          (1)  3        (1)  5         (1)  5        (1)  5         (1)  5          23
Sub-total Salaries                                                               146            245           245            245            245      1,126
Skilled and Unskilled Labor                                              3/                5              8             8              8              8         37
Sub-total Salaries and Wages                                                      51            253            253          253             253      1,163
Other Operating Costs
Raw materials                                                                            6             10            10            10              10         46         5            2
Farm operating costs  4/                                                                 4              7             7             7               7         32         5            3
Office expenses  5/                                                                      3              5             5             5               5         23
Vehicle operation maintenance  6/                                                        4              6             6             6               6         28        10            3
Sub-total                                                                         17             28             28           28              28        129                      8
Physical contingencies                                                                   2              3             3             3               2         13
Sub-total                                                                         19             31             31           31              30        142
Travel allowances  7/                                                                   25             35            25            25              25        135
Sub-total Other Operating Costs                                                   44             66             56           56              55        277
Total OUAT                                                                             195            319           309           309             308      1,440
1/   Basic salary plus dearness and other allowances, but excluding travel allowances (see Note (6))
2/   Costed at 60% to allow time for recruitment
3/   Skilled labor at Rs 10 per day; unskilled labor at Rs 4 per day
4/ Direct costs for 5 ha farm part fallowed/part cropped; covers seed, fertilizer and sprays at Rs 500,
labor and hired bullocks at Rs 1,000 and overheads at Rs 200 uncultivated ha; 4 ha cultivated
5/ Stationery, postage, etc.
6/   15,000 km at Re 0.40 per km
7/   Including study tour visits to other states in first two years
A tZ
August 23, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVdIOPNT PR JECT
Farm Implement Costs
DAFP Farm Implement Manufacture, Development and Demonstration Equipment & Vehicles
Unit                - - - - - - - - - Y E A R - - - - - - - - - -                             Foreign Exchange
Cost             1             2             3             4             5        Total        7.       Rs '000
A.  Manufacture & Development                                                                            (Thousand Rupees)
Power-press  1/                                                               235                                                                235          10          23
Workshop Equipment
Brinnel hardness tester                                                         8                                                                  8
Pipe bending machine (i" to 2")                                                 3                                                                  3
Grain moisture meter                                                            4                                                                  4
Band shearing machine                                                           3                                                                  3
Punching machine                                                                1                                                                  1
Beading machine                                                                 3                                                                  3
Side seaming machine                                                            I                                                                  1          10          10
Arc welding machine                                                             5                                                                  5
Hand tools                                                                      2                                                                  2
Precision tools  2/                                                            10                                                                 10
Edge folding machine (maxm. depth of fold 1")                                   2                                                                  2
Universal edging, bending and folding machine                                  28                                                                 28
Turret lathe (Bed 42". Swing 18")                                              14                                                                 14
Wolf tools (Grinder, hand drill, etc.)                                          1                                                                  1
Threading and tapping machine                                                  10                                                                 10
Total Workshop Equipment                                                   95                                                                 95                      33
Vehicles
Jeep (diesel)                                                                  50                                                                 50
Jeep trailer                                                                    7                                                                  7          25          12
Total Vehicles                                                             57                                                                 57                      12
Total Manufacture & Development                                           387                                                                387                      45
B. Demonstration Units
Demonstration vans                                            100.0       (7) 700       (4) 400       (2) 200                                  1,300          25         325
Audio-visual equipment                                         25.0       (7) 175       (4) 100       (2)  50                                    325          15          49
Demolition equipment  3/                                        2.0       (7)  14       (4)   8       (2)   4                                     26
Furniture  4/                                                   0.7       (7)   5       (4)   3       (2)   1                                      9
Total Demonstration Units                                                 894           511           255                                  1,660                     374
TOTAL DAFP                                                                  1,281           511           255                                  2,047                     419
1/    100-ton press
2/    Dial gauge vetmir caliper, dial thickness gauge, dynamometre
3/    Each set comprising mould board plough, 3-tyned cultivator with seeder, disc harrow, low-lift hand pump,
storage bin, wheel hoe, hand weeder, garden rake, seed treating drum, hand compression sprayer
4/    Table, chair, bench, cabinet
A s  M
August 23, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                    >r



INDIA
oaRIM  AORIgULUR&S. AIvILDtIT PROJECT
Far Implement Costs
DAFP' Farm. lDplemeent (Manufacture) Development & Demonstration - Staff & Other O,rtn
(Thousand Rupees)
unit             - - - - - - - - - - - Y E A R - - - - - - - - - - - -                           Foreign Exchange
Cost I/          1              2             3              4             5        Total         X        Rs '000
A.  Manufacturing Develcemnt Umit
Staff & Labor Costs
Development Engineer                                            20.2          (1)  12       (1)  20        (1)  20       (1)  20       (1)  20         92
Assistant Engineer                                               15.9         (2)  19       (2)  32        (2)  32       (2)  32        (2)  32       147
Skilled and unskilled labor  3/                                                     4              6             6              6             6        28
Driver                                                           4.8                4              6             6              6             6        28
Total Staff & Labor Costs                                                      39            64             64            64             64       295
Other Operating Costs
Vehicle operation and maintenance  41                                               4              6             6              6             6        28         10             3
Miscellaneous  5/                                                                   4              6             6              6             6        28
Sub-total                                                                       8            12             12            12             12        56                       3
Physical contingencies                                                              1              1             1              1             1         5
Total Vehicle & Miscellaneous Operation
and Maintenance                                                              9            13            13             13            13        61
Travel allowances                                                                    3             6             6              6             6        27
Total Operating Costs                                                          12             19            19            19             19        88
Total Manufacturing Development Unit                                           51            83             83            83             83       383                        3
B. Demonstration Unit
Staff Costs
Engineering supervisors                                           7.9         (7)  55      (11)  87       (13) 103      (13) 103       (13) 103       451
Fitters                                                           7.2         (7)  50       (11)  79      (13)  94      (13)  94       (13)  94       411
Helpers                                                           3.7         (7)  26      (11)  41       (13)  48      (13)  48       (13)  48       211
Van drivers                                                       5.5         (7)  39      (11)  61       (13)  72      (13)  72       (13)  72       316
Total Staff Costs                                                             170           268            317           317            317    1,389
Other Operating Costs
Vehicle operation and maintenance  6/                                               92           145           172            172           172       753          10           75
Miscellaneous  7/                                                                  70            110           130            130           130       570           5           29
Sub-total                                                                     162           255            302           302            302    1,323                       104
Physical contingencies (107.)                                                       16            26            30             30            30       132
Total Operating Costs                                                         178           281            332           332            332    1,455
Total Demonstration Unit                                                      348            549           649           649            649    2,844                       104
Total DAFP                                                                        399            632           732            732           732    3,227                       107
1/    Basic salary plus dearness and other allowances but excluding travel allowance
2/    Costed at 60% in year to allow time for recruitment
'7    Skilled labor at Rs 10 and unskilled at RB  4 per day
4/    15,000 km at Ra 0.40 per km
5/    Raw materials, power and light, sundries
6/    12,000 km at R. 1.1 per km excluding driver = Rs 13,200/year
71    Demonatration expenses for labor and bullock hire at Rs 50 per demonstration;
200 demonstrations per unit project
August 23, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ground Water Survey and Monitoring Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
Year                                          Foreign Exchange
1         2          3          4          5       Total         x        Rs '000
Equipment & Vehicles
Drilling                       3,190       300        100        100        100      3,790          38     1,437
Well Monitoring Components       334     1,272        384        -          -        1,990          25        498
Well Monitoring Equipment        381        630       145        -          -        1,156         -          -
Miscellaneous Lab Equipment       62       -          -          -          -           62          30         19
Vehicles                         440       -          -          -          -          440          25        110
Sub-total                  4,407      2,202        629        100       100      7,438                  2,064
Physical Contingency              89       236         72         15         15        427          25        107
Total Equipment &
Vehicles                 4,496      2,438        701        115       115      7,865          28      2,171
Establishment
Incremental Staff Salaries       891       891        891        891        891     4,455
Allowances                       311        311       311        311        311      1,555
Sub-total                  1,202      1,202      1,202     1,202      1,202      6,010
Maintenance & Operation          220       500        435        500        500      2,155          10        215
Sub-total                  1,422      1,702      1,637     1,702      1,702      8,165                    215
Physical Contingency              79       122        112        122        122        557                     32
Total Establishment        1,501      1,824      1,749      1,824     1,824      8,722                    247
Grand Totals:
Before Contingencies       5,829      3,904      2,266      1,802     1,802    15,603                   2,279
Physical Contingencies       168        358        184        137        137       984                    139
Total                    5,997      4,262      2,450       939      1,939    16,587           15      2,418
Totals with Contingencies
Equipment                  4,496      2,438        701        115       115      7,865          28      2,171
Establishment
Staff & Labor            1,248      1,249     1,249      1,249      1,249      6,244                    -          X-3
Maintenance &                                                                                                      i M
Operation                253        575        500       575        575      2,478          10        247        m M
Total                      5,998      4,262      2,450     1,939      1,939    16,587           15      2,418
January 3, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ground Water Survey and Monitoring Costs
Equipment
(Thousand Rupees)
Number     Unit                           Year                               Foreign
Item                                 Required    Cost         1         2         3       4        5      Total    Exchange
%  Rs '000
Drilling Equipment
Rotary rig, heavy duty                1         1,000    1,000        -         -       -        -      1,000    30    300
Rotary rig, hammer attachment         1           750       750       -         -       -        -        750    30    225
Air compressor                        1            150      150       -         -       -        -        150    30      45
Welders                               2             50      100       -         -       -        -        100    30      30
Trucks, diesel                         2          120       240       -         -       -        -        240    25      60
Pickups, diesel                        2            60      120       -         -       -        -        120    25      30
Electric loggers                       2           300      600       -         -       -        -        600    90    540
Spare parts and tools                 -            -        200       300       100     100      100      800    25    200
Field camp facilities (sets)          2            15        30       -         -       -        -         30    25       7
Sub-total                                              3,190       300      100      100      100   3,790          1,437
Monitoring Well Components
Coastal plain                        30             50      250       950       300     -        -      1,500    25    375
Erosional plain                      35            14        84       322        84     -        -      . 490    25    123
Sub-total                         65                     334    1,272       384      -        -     1,990            498
Monitoring Equipment
Water Level Recorders               160              5      135       520       145     -        -        800    -      -
Hydrographic Instruments (sets)       3             60      120        60       -       -        -        180    -      _
Surveying instruments (sets)          2            38        76        -                -        -         76    -      _
Data processing (sets)                 2            50       50        50       -       -        -        100    -      _
Sub-total                                                381       630      145      -        -     1,156            -
Vehicles (jeeps)                         8            55      440       -         -        -        -       440    25    110
Misc. Laboratory Equipment               -                      62      -         -        -        -        62    30       19
Total                                                  4,407    2,202        629     100      100   7,438          2,064  t x
Physical Contingencies @15% -                                   89      236        72       15       15     427            107    M
Grand Total                                            4,496    2,438        701     115      115   7,865    28  2,171
1/  For spare parts, well components and laboratory equipment only.
December 27, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ground Water Survey and Monitoring Costs
Establishment
(Thousand Rupees)
Number       Unit                            Year
Item                     Required      Cost        1          2          3          4          5        Total
(1)  Hydrologist                       2         13           26         26         26         26         26        130
(2)  Assistant Hydrologist             6          7           42         42         42         42         42        210
(3)  Estimator and Draftsman          28          4.5        126        126        126        126        126        630
(4)  Clerk and Observer              150          2.9        435        435        435        435        435      2,175
(5)  Accountant                        2          5           10         10         10         10         10         50
(6)  Stenographer                      2          4            8          8          8          8          8         40
(7)  Driller                           2          6           12         12         12         12         12         60
(8)  Assistant Driller                 2          3            6          6          6          6          6         30
(9)  Tracer                            8          3.6         29         29         29         29         29        145
(10)  Drill crew                       41          2.5        103        103        103        103        103        515
(11)  Driver (heavy vehicle)            4          7.2         29         29         29         29         29        145
(12)  Driver (jeep)                    10          3.7         37         37         37         37         37        185
(13)  Laboratory Assistant
and Technician                  8          3.5         28         28         28         28         28        140
(14)  Allowances                        _          -          311        311        311        311        311      1,555
Sub-total [(1) - (14)]                             1,202      1,202      1,202      1,202      1,202       6,010
(15)  Maintenance                       _                     100        150        200        200        200        850
(16)  Fuel & Operating                  _                     120       350         235        300        300      1,305
Sub-total [(15) - (16)]                              220        500        435        500         500     2,155
(17)  Total                         1/                     1,422      1,702      1,637      1,702       1,702      8,165
(18)  Physical Contingencies @15% -                            79       122        112         122        122        557
(19)  GRAND TOTAL                                          1,501      1,824      1,749      1,824      1,824       8,722       m M
1/ For items (14), (15) and (16) only.
January 3, 1977



ANNEX 24
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Shallow Tubewell Costs
Sammry
(Thousand Rupees)
~----  Year  -
1       2        3     Total             Rs'000
Equipment & vehicles
Drilling                         44        -       -       44
Well components                  26     136       54     216        27       58
Pumping                          79     162       96      337       1/       49
Sub-total                  I1u      2W       10                        107
Physical contingencies           31      45       22      98                 18
Sub-total (Equipment)      10       3UT3    172
Vehicles - Pickup, diesel        60       -        _      60        25       15
Sub-total (Equipment
& vehicles)    240      343      172      755       27      140
Establishment
Well construction/
installation labor             12      60       24      96
Incremental staff salaries           U            93    19
Training & travel               100       -        -     100
Miscellaneous allowance          85      85       85     255
Sab-total                           % 7              5 Z
Repair & maintenance              9      27               81
Sub-total (Establishment) NU        235     217      721
Physical contingencies           31      26       23      80
Sab-total                  300      2         07     B
Grand Total
Before contingencies       478      533     367   1,378
Physical contingencies      62       71      45      178
Total                      0      6        412   MM5
Totals with contingencies:
Hquipment & vehicles         240      343     172      755               140
Establishment
Staff & labor              290      230     188      708
Operating & maintenance    10        31      52       93
XOT    6W       4      1,556 I
1/ Pumping equipment 20; piping 27.
August 19, 1976



Table 2
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shallow TLibewell Costs
Equipment
(Thousand Rupees)
Foreign
Number  Unit   ---  Year  ----                 Ehange
Required Cost    1      2      3   Total       =Rs'000
Drilling equipment & vehicles
Hand boring rigs                 3     10      30     -      -    30        25    15
Pickup, diesel                   1     60      60     -      -    60
Field camp facilities            2      5      10     -      -    10
Misc. tools & spares             -      -       4
Sab-total                                  0u 1                                g
Demonstration well components
Steel pipe & brass
stainer                      24       3.0    9    45    18    72
Steel pipe, slotted
screen and gravel            24       2.5    5    4o    15    60
Steel, pipe & coir filter       24      2.0    6    30    12    48
Bamboo pipe & coir             24       1.5    6    21       9    36
filter
S3b-total                                  2b     3 w         EDEi      27    7
Pumping equipment
Electric                        24      6.0   24    72    48   144         20    29
Diesel                          12      7.5   15    45    30    gO         20    18
Kerosene                        12      3.0    6    18    12    36
Manual, single action           24      0.5    1      9      2    12
Manual, double action           24      1.0    2    18      4    24
Experimental                     1     25.0   25      -      -    25
Misc. piping                   600(ft)  0.01   6      -      -     6       27      2
Sab-total                                  79  172    W    337                49
Total                                     209   298   150   657         19   122
Physical contingencies @15%                    31    45    22    98               18
Grand total                               270  -33   172   7p;               zy
August 18, 1976



ANNEX 24
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shallow Tabewell Costs
Establishient
(Thousand Tapees)
Number  Unit -Year  ------
Item                 Required Cost      1      2        3       Total
(1) Labor - well construction
and pump installation (wells)   96       1      12       60      24         96
(2)  Executive engineer                   1    12      12       12      12         36
(3)  Assistant engineer                  1      6       6        6       6         18
(4)  Sab-assistant engineer               2     4.5     9        9       9         27
(5)  Office staff                       10      3      30       30      30         90
(6)  Driver - clerk                      2      3       6        6       6         18
Sub-total                                     63      63       63       189
(7)  Repair and maintenance               -     -       9       27      45         81
(8)  Training and travel expense          -     -     100        -       -        100
(9)  Miscellaneous allowances                          85       85      85        255
(10)      Total                                        269      235     217        721
(11)  Physical contingencies 015%al                     31       26      23         80
(12)      Grand total                                  300      261     240        801
1/ For items (7)-(10) only.
August 19, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Management Data Unit Costs
(Thousand Ruipees)
Foreign
--------------    Year   ---------------                   Exchange
Item                               1         2         3        4        5       Total             Rs'OOO
ER3uipment & vehicles
Equipment                                 95      176                                   271        10      27
Vehicles                                407        60                                   467        25     116
Total equipment & vehicles             W2       23-6                                  733
Establishment
Staff salaries                          457    1,324.   1,32       1,324    1,324    5,753
Travelling allowances                     36      132      132       132      132       564         5      28
Other operating                         103       153      140       140      140       676         7      49
Physical contingencies (10%)              10       15       14        14       14        67
Sab-total                             11 3               154 I     154T     154       743
Total establishment                   ON      1,624    1,610    I,610    1,610    7,060
Total exc. physical contingencies  1,098    1,845    1,596    1,596    1,596    7,731
Physical contingencies                   10        15       14        14       14        67
Grand Total                         1,108    1,860    1,610    1,610    1,610    7,798                  225
Totals with contingencies
Equipment & vehicles                    502       236                                   738               143
Establishment
Staff & labor                         493    1,456    1,456    1,456    1,456    6,317                   28
Operating                             113      168       154      154       154       743                54    o 
Total                             1,108    1,860    1,610    1,610    1,610    7,798                 225  
An
A,uV~st 16, 1976



MNDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Nanaement Data Unit Costa
Vehicles, kzuipmsnt and Furniture
Unit     - ----- -           Year  --------------                 Foreign Exchane
Cost        1          2         3       4      5   Tbtal         7-.iR 
R0      ---------- - Tand Ruppees ------
(Tmubers in Parenthesis)
Vehicles, 2-wheel drive, petrol   41.0       (7) 287     -    -                           287           25       72
Motorcyclesi/                       6.0    (20) 120   (lo)  60                             180           25      45
Electric balculatorsl/              6.0      (6)  36   (18) 108                           14i   )
Hand calculators                    3.0    (15)  45   (18)  54                              99)
)       10      26
Duplicating zachine                 2.5       -    -    (1)   3                              3)
Typewriters3/                       3.0      (3)   9    (2)   6                             15  )
Office furniture4/                             _  5       _ -                               10            -
Total investment cost                        502        236      -        -      -    738           19      143
1/ Loans to be provided to Farm Management Assistants.
/ Three memory with printout and 8 digits.
3/ One with mathematical symbols.
/  Unspecified.
August 18, 1976                                                                                                       N



ANE  25
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTUFA L DEVLOPMNT PROJECT
Farm Management Data Unit Costs
Staff and Operating
Foreign
Unit1!/                            Y  e  a  r                                           Exchae
Cost       1            2               3              4-                 - 5   Total  TRs- OOD
 ---   - - - -   - -(Thousand Rupees)    - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - (Numbers in Parenthesis)  - - - - - -
Staff Salaries
Director                               27.7   (1)   16    (1)        28    (1)      28    (1)      28    (1)       28    128
Assistant Director                     22.1   (1)   13    (1)        22    (1)      22    (1)      22    (1)       22    101
Farm Management Economists             17.3   (6)   60    (6)    104    (6)    104    (6)    104    (6)    104    476
Farm Management Assistants             10.9  (30)  164   (30)    327   (30)    327   (30)    327   (30)    327  1,472
Primary Investigators                   5.9  (50)  148  (105)    620  (105)    620  (105)    620  (105)    620  2,628
Systems Analyst                        17.3   (1)   10    (1)        17    (1)      17    (1)      17    (1)       17     78
Statistical Analysts                   10.9    -      -   (10)    109   (10)    109   (10)    109   (10)    109    436
Accountant/Head Clerk                   7.9   (1)    5    (1)         8    (1)       8    (1)       8    (1)        8     37
Clerk Typist                            5.9   (3)   10    (5)        30    (5)      30    (5)      30    (5)       30    130
Stenographers                           6.3   (2)    7    (2)        13    (2)      13    (2)      13    (2)       13     59
Drivers                                 4.8   (7)   17    (7)        34    (7)      34    (7)      34    (7)       34    153
Messenger/Watchmen                      4.0   (3)    7    (3)        12    (3)      12    (3)       12    (3)      12     55
Sub-total Salaries                                  457          1,324           1,324          1,324          1,324  5,753
Operating Costs
Travelling Allowppces2/                              36             132            132            132             132    564   5       28
Vehizle Running3r                                    37            112             112            112             112    485  10       48
Stationery, Printing ,and Postage                    10             15              15             15             15      70
Equipment Servicin                                    2               7              7              7               7     30   5        1
Other                                                 4               6         .    6              6               6     28
Consultancy5/                                        50             13               -              _                     63
Sub-total Operating Costs                           139            285             272            272            272  1,240
TOTAL SALARIES AND OPERATING COSTS                  596          1,609          1                                596 6,993             77
1/ Basic salary plus dearness and other allowances but excluding travelling allowances.
2/  Estimated at 5% of field staff salaries exoluding PHAS, plus FKA motorcycle allowances at Rs  30 hkm, 10, 000 'cn/year.
3/ 20,000 hm/vehicle at Rs 0.80/km to cover all operation and maintenance excluding the driver.
4/ At 24 of cost.
5/ Local costs only; four months year 1, one month year 2.
August 17, IQ76



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing Costs
Summary
(Thousand Rupees)
------ - - Y E A R - - - - - - - - -                          Foreien- Exchange
1         2         3          4         5          Total             _ns __W
Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment                                  1,273        522       587         86        78      2,546      32         818
Vehicles                                   1,181        795       508        165        25      2,674      22         582
Total equipment and vehicles            2,45 1,317                        251       103                 27
Establishment
Salaries                                   2,684      4,301     6,047      6,047     6,047    25,126
Travelling allowances                        268        430       605        605       605      2,513
Operating                                     375       493       586        586       586      2,626       9         252
Physical contingencies (lC%)                  38         49        59         58        58        262                  25
Sub-total - Operating                     413     __2                  __                  __ __2                  277
Total establishment                     3,365       ,273     7,297      7,296               30,527
Total (excluding physical
contingencies)               5,781     6,541      8,333     7,489      7,341    35,485
Physical contingencies                         38        49        59         58        58        262
Grand Total                             5,819      6,590     8,392     7          7,399    35,747                1,677
Totals with contingencies
Equipment                                  2,454      1,317     1,095        251       103     5,220       27       1,400
Establishment
Staff & labor                            2,952     4,731      6,652     6,652      6,652    27,639
Operating                                  413        542       645        644       644      2,888       9         277
Total                                  5,819      6,590     8,392      7,547     7,399    35,747                1,677
August 20, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
&-ricultural Statistics and Data Processing Costs
Ve!uoies, ksquipment a-nd Furn;tulre
Unit                              Y ea r
Cost          1            2            3            4            5        Total   Foreign Exchange
Rs '000        ----------        (Thousand Rupees) ------__       -----------__--       %     RbiOO
(Number of Units in Parentheses)-                                  -
Transport
Cars                   35.0      (1)  35.0    (1)  35.0    (1)  35.0                               105.0      25      26
Jeeps                  41.0      (6) 246.0   (7) 287.0                                             533.0      25     138
Motorcyclesl_/          6.0   (100) 600.0   (58) 348.0  (58) 348.0  (23) 138.0                   1,434.0      25     358
Bicycles 2/              o.5   (600) 300.0  (250) 125.0  (250) 125.0  (55)  27.5  (50) 25.0        602.5      10      60
Measur-ing tapes,                                                                                                 _
weighing sets               0.15  (600)  90.0  (250)  37.5  (250)  37.5  (55)   8.3  (50)  7.5         180.8     10      18
Crop cutting machines       0.3   (600) 180.0  (250)  75.0  (250)  75.0  (55)  16.5  (50) 15.0        361.5      10      36
Calculating machines        3.0    (42) 126.0   (42) 126.0  (69) 207.0  (3)   9.0   (3)  9.0          477.0      10      47
Typewriters
Long-bar                 3.0     (1)   3.0    (1)   3.0   (13)  39.0   (1)   3.0                    48.o      -        -
Short-bar                2.5     (1)   2.5    (1)   2.5    (2)   5-0   (1)   2.5                    12.5      -
Office Furniture-/                       35.0          20.0         20.0                                75.0     -        -
Electronics Tabulation
Equipment
Keypunch               26.0      (8) 208.0   (4) 104.0   (4) 104.o                                 416.0      90     374
Keyverifier             20.0     (6) 120.0    (3)  60.0   (3)  60.0                                240.0      90    216
Sorter                 27.0      (1)  27.0                                                          27.0      90      24
Computing & Acctg.
Machine             400.0      (1) 400.0                                                         400.0      90      36
Reproducer             60.o                   (1)  60.0                                             60.0      90      54
Card cabinets            1.5     (5)   7.5    (3)   4.5    (2)   3.0   (1)   1.5   (1)  1.5         18.0      10       1
Miscellaneous                          9.0          10.0          10.0        10.0        10.0      49.0      -         -
Punch cards         (Rs 45 per '000)  14.0          20.0          27.0        35.0        35.0     131.0      -        _
Air conditioning                      50.0                                                           5.     25      12
Total Investment cost                 2,453.0       1,317.5       1,095.5       251.3       103.0   5,220.3           1,400
==t===== =========  ============ = = = = = = = = = S =s= = == = = = = = = = = = = = =r= =
1/ Loans to be provided to Field Inspectors.
2/ Loans to be provided to Amins.
3/ Unspecified.                                                                                                          o,
AD 1
August 17, 1976 



ANNEX 26
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICGITAURAL DEVEWPJWZ MtOJ1CT
Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing Costs
Establishment
Unit1   ------------------______________-   Year    ---------_______________________
Item                    Cost-/        1                  2                  3                4                 5             Total   Foreign Exchange
StffSlais      -----------------------Thiousand Rupees------------------a  '000
Staff Salaries                            __________________________(Number of Staff in Parenthesis)  --------------------
State Headquarters
Joint Director                 18.0      (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0       (1)    18.0         90.0
Deputy Director                14.0                        (1)    14.0       (2)    28.0       (2)    28.0       (2)    28.0         98.0
Assistant Director              8.0      (2)    16.0       (3)    24.0       (4)    32.0       (4)    32.0       (4)    32.0        136.0
Statistical Investigator        6.1      (4)    24.4       (8)    48.8      (12)    73.2      (12)    73.2      (12)    73.2        292.8
Statistical Assistant           5.7      (7)    39.9      (10)    57.0      (13)    74.1      (13)    74.1      (13)    74.1        319.2
Junior Assistants               5.5    (11)    60.5       (19)   104.5      (24)   132.0      (24)   132.0      (24)   132.0        561.0
Typist                          4.7      (1)     4.7       (1)     4.7       (2)     9.4       (2)     9.4       (2)     9.4         37.6
Stenographers                   6.3      (1)     6.3       (2)    12.6       (3)    18.9       (3)    18.9       (3)    18.9         75.6
Driver                          4.8      (1)     4.8       (2)     9.6       (3)    14.4       (3)    14.4       (3)    14.4         57.6
Messenger/Watchman              4.0      (7)    28.0      (10)    40.0      (12)    48.0      (12)    48.0      (12)    48.0        212.0
Training
Assistant Director              8.0      (1)     8.0       (1)     8.0       (1)     8.0       (1)     8.0       (1)     8.0         40.0
Asst. Settlement Officer        8.0      (3)    24.0       (3)    24.0       (3)    24.0       (3)    24.0       (3)    24.0        120.0
Instructor                      5.7      (3)    17.1       (3)    17.1       (3)    17.1       (3)    17.1       (3)    17.1         85.5
Research Assistant              6.1      (2)    12.2       (2)    12.2       (2)    12.2       (2)    12.2       (2)    12.2         61.0
Tabulation
Machine Room Supervisor         6.6                        (1)      6.6      (1)      6.6      (1)      6.6      (1)      6.6        26.4
Machine Operator                6.1      (2)    12.2       (3)    18.3       (5)    30.5       (5)    30.5       (5)    30.5        122.0
Keypunch Operator               5.0    (16)    90.0       (23)   115.0      (31)   155.0      (31)   155.0      (31)   155.0        670.0
District Headquarters
Additional Dsp.                 7.7    (13)   100.1       (13)   100.1      (13)   100.1      (13)   100.1      (13)   100.1        500.5
Statistical Officer
Statistical Investigator        6.1    (13)    79.3       (26)   158.6      (39)   237.9.    (39)   237.9       (39)   Z37.0        951.6
Statistical Assistant           5.7    (26)   148.2       (39)   222.3      (52)   296.4      (52)   296.4      (52)   296.4      1,259. 7
Clerk                           5.0    (13)    65.0    (13)    65.0         (39)   195.0    (39)   195.0        (39)   195.0        715.0
Driver                          4.8    (13)    62.4       (13)    62.4      (13)    62.4      (13)    62.4      (13)    62.4        312.0
Messenger/Watchmen              4.0    (13)    52.0       (13)    52.0      (13)    52.0      (13)    52.0      (13)    52.0        260.0
Field Staff
Senior Field Inspector          5.0    (41)   205.0       (60)   300.0      (79)   395.0      (79)   395.0      (79)   395.0      1,690.0
Field Inspector                 4.0    (38)   152.0    (77)   308.0    (116)   464.0    (116)   464.0    (116)   464.0            1,852.0
Amin                            3.6   (404) 1,454.4   (694) 2.498.4    (9'4) 3.542.4   (984) 3.542.4    J984) 3.542.4    14.580.0
Sub-Total, Salaries                        2.684.5           4,301.2           6,046.6           6,046.6           6,046.6    25,125.5
OPerating Costs
Travelling Allowances                            268.0             430.0             605.0             605.0             605.0      2,513.0
Vehicle Running                                  176.0             226.0             275.0             275.0             275.0      1,227.0        10     122
Stationery, Printing                              75.0             125.0             150.0             150.0             150.0        650.0
and Postage
Equipment Servicing                                4.0               6.0               8.0               8.0               8.0         34.0       10        3.
Maintenance of
Tabulating Machines                               48.0              64.0              81.0              81.0              81.0       355.0        50      127
other                                             72.0              72.0              72.0              72.0              72.0       360.0
Sub-Total. Operating Costs                    643.0             923.0           1,191.0           1.191.0           1,191.0     5,139.0         5     252
TOTAL SALARIES 6 OPERATING
COSTS                                      3,327.5           5,224.2           7,237.6           7,237.6           7,237.6    30,264.5
1/ Basic salary plus dearness and other allowances but excluding travelling allowances.
August 18, 1976



ANNEX 27
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing
(Thousand US Dollars)
GOO         IDA         Total        % IDA
Equipment, Vehicles and          800         4,800       5,600        85
Furniture
Civil Works                     2,500      10,600       13,100        80
Establishment Costs
Incremental Salaries       13,300        4,500       17,800        25
Incremental Operating
Expenses                  3,400          -          3,400        -
Training
Fellowships                   -            100          100       100
20,000      20,000       40,000"/
Percentage of Total              50           50
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$ 1.8M.
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 28
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Implications for the Government of Orissa
Cost Recovery
1.        Incremental costs of the project would be partly recovered through
taxes levied on paddy (or rice) and other foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds
entering the commercial market. Paddy purchases by millers and wholesalers
are taxed at 7% and rice that has not been taxed as paddy is taxed on sale
at 3%; other foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds are taxed on purchase or sale
at 3%. The following is a measure of the effect the project will have on
production. If it is assumed that rainfed and irrigated area were to remain
unchanged (thus eliminating change due to irrigation) and that yield increases
due to adoption of package of practices in Annex 2 would be as shown in
Annex 31 Table 1 (which are not exceptional); then increased production
(foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds) due to the project may be estimated thus:
Present     Year 4    Year 8
---- Yield in tons/hectare----
Area          '000 ha
Rainfed      5,600                 0.78        0.82      0.98
Irrigated    1,000                 1.16        1.28      1.48
6,600                0.84        0.92      1.11
Production ('000 tons)             5,500       6,100      7,300
2.        Taking the recovery rate at 60%, since recovery is confined to
the larger dealers, the annual incremental tax yield from the project would
be of the order of Rs 13 M by Year 4 and Rs 38 M by Year 8:



ANNEX 28
Page 2
Present          Year 4         Year 8
Production and Tax Yield            with/without   with  without  with  without
with/without project             ---------         Million Tons  -------------
Production
Gross production                   5.5          6.1    5.5       7.3    5.5
Net production /a                  4.8          5.3    4.8      6.4    4.8
-  State consumption               4.1          4.9    4.9      5.3    5.3
-  Export surplus                  0.7          0.4   (0.1)    1.1   (0.5)
Taxable Production
- Quantity
15% of state consumption
(net of imports)                0.6          0.8              1.0
+ export surplus                 0.7          0.4             1.1
1.3          1.2    0.7 /d  2.1    0.7 /d
-------------- Million Rupees --------------
- Value
at Rs 1,500/ton /b            1,950         1,800  1,050   3,150  1,050
Tax Recovery /c                          35           32      19       57      19
Net increase due to project              -             13              38
/a   Total production rice, other foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds less
12-1/2% for cattle feed, seed and waste.
/b   Average sale price for rice and other major commodities.
/c   Tax at 3% on sale value, recovery taken at 60%.
/d   15% of 4.8 M tons.
3.        Government revenues would be prevented from sharp decline, due to
increased local consumption and reduced export tax during the first four
years and would increase relatively and actually by the eighth year. The
annual net increase of Rs 38 M in revenue from Year 8 due to the project
compares with total cost of extension, research and allied activities of
about Rs 150 M (four times).
4.        Government revenues would be further augmented with the completion
of the present land survey operation when potential land revenue collection,
reintroduced in April 1975, is expected to rise from Rs 14 M to Rs 50 M.
September 21, 1976



ANNEX 29
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year
and                                 Disbursement
Quarter Ending                 In Quarter           Cumulative
1977/78
September 
December                        --                   --
March                             .2                   .2
June                             1.0                  1.2
1978/79
September                       1.4                   2.6
December                        1.4                   4.0
March                           1.4                  .5.4
June                            1.3                   6.7
1979/80
September                       1.2                   7.9
December                        1.2                   9.1
March                           1.2                  10.3
June                            1.0                  11.3
1980181
September                       1.0                 12.3
December                        1.1                 13.4
March                           1.1                  14.5
June                            0.9                 15.4
1981/82
September                       0.8                 16.2
December                        0.8                 17.0
March                           0.8                 17.8
June                            0.8                 18.6
1982/83
SeDtember                         .7                19.3
December                          .7                20.0
January 25, 1977



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Extension
YEAR   Pre-Board           Pre-             1             2              3             4             5
ACTIVITY                 MONTH  Presentation  Effectiveness  3  6  9  12  3  6  9 12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  123
1.  Civil Works-/
Purchase Land
Prepare building designs - 2/
Residential (R)               _ _
Office (0)
Start Construction - R
Complete Construction - R
-O
2. Equipment (vehicles, f rniture,
and office equipment-
Prepare tender documents                                              _
Clear with IDA-j (45 days)
Issue invitations(60 days)
Receive bids      (6das
Evaluate bids    (45 days)
Clear with IDA3/ (30 days)
Award contract   (15 days)                                                  . .-
Delivery-
Vehicle Purchase on market                       _ . _ _ _ _ _ _                                    - _ _ _ _         - _
Assist AEO purchase motorcycles                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Assist VLW purchase bicycles                                           - a _ _ _ _          - _
3. Staff-=
VLW's transferred to DAFP
Appoint Additional Director
Selection of Range DDA
Selection of Range DTO
Selection of Range SMS                          _                         -  -       _      _              -      -
Selection of Range ADAO
Selection of Range Drivers                                                           - _                                         -
Selection for in-service
training                              _ _                                  -   - _    - _  _ _. -
1/ Details in Annex 3 and 16, Tables 2 through 5.                          3/ If tender value less than US$100.000, IPA clearance
2/ Design for VLW housing would be submitted to IDA within two months                not necessary.
from date of signing. Within six months GOO would complete a survey
to determine more precisely the number and location of such housing.
1-18-77



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Research
YEAR    Pre-Board        Pre-            1             2             3             4             5
ACTIVITY           MONTH Presentation  Effectiveness 3  6  9  12  3  6 6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12
1.  Civil Works-/
Prepare building designs -
Residential (R)
Laboratory  (L)                               -
Start Construction - R
Complete Construction - R
-L
2.  Equipment (laboratory ellipment,
vehicles and furniture-
Prepare tender  ocuments
Clear with IDA-  (45 days)
Issue invitations 6das
Receive bids      (     Ys)
Evaluate bids 2/ (45 days)
Clear with IDA-/ (30 days)
Award CoPract   (15 days)
Delivery-
Vehicle Purchase on Market                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3. Staff1/
Appoint Statistician at
Bhubaneswar
Select supporting staff                                              _ _  _       _   _   _
2/Details in Annex 4 and 17 (Tables 1-7).
-/Processing time reduced approximately 3 months if contract less than US$100,000 requiring no IDA clearance.
1-18-77



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PH0J fT
Timetable of Cooperative Training Activities
Years                12                                 3                   4                   5
Months          3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12   3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12
1. Upgrade facilities at Gopalpur
Prepare plans and designs
Tender for building contractor
Renovate existing and construct new buildings
Tender for furniture and equipment
Purchase furniture and equipment
Appoint new lecturers
Expand student intake
2. New facilities at Bhubaneswar and Bargarh
Purchase land
Prepare plans and designs
Tender for building contractors
Construct buildings                                                                                            -
Tender for vehicles
Purchase vehicles
Tender for furniture and teaching equipment
Purchase furniture and equipment
Appoint additional staff
Accept students
3.  Appoint Training Officer at headquarters
Purchase vehicle
4. Training of PSC Secretaries at CCB 1/
Purchase land                                                                               -
Prepare designs
Tender for building contractors
Construct buildings                                                                                     _
Tender for furniture
Appoint instructors                                                                  _
Training courses at CCB                                                                             -
1/ Tbe establishment of training facilities at the 17 CCBs
woul  be phased over years 1-3.
'1 87
1-18-77



INDIA
ORISSAk ARULTJULL DIJEPXBli     PROJECT
Basic Training of Extension Staff: Timetable of Activities
Years                                2                3                     4
Months        3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12    3   6   9   12
1. Expand existing training facilities
Prepare plans and designs
Construct buildings
Prepare tender documents for new equipment
Purchase equipment
Tender for new vehicles
Purchase vehicles
Appoint additional lecturers
One-year pre-service course  1/
2.  New Training Center
Acquire land
Prepare plans and designs
Contract for building contractor                                     -
Construct buildings
Prepare tender documents for new vehicles
and equipment
Purchase vehicles and ecuipient
Appoint Principal                                                                         -
Appoint Lecturers
One year pre-service course
Refresher and special courses
3.  Training of teaching staff and adult teaching
methods
4. AEO Training                                                              l
5.  SMS Training
6. Training rural women
Tender for new vehicles and equipment
Purchase new vehicles and equipment  2/                                    -
Appoint staff for mobile units                                               -
Training of operators                                                                        _  _
Units operational
1/ For the pre-service course en intake of 40 students would be admitted
every six months so that two courses would be running concurrently at all times.
2/  The establishment of new mobile units would be phased over a two-year period.
1-18-77



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Land Records and Survey
YEAR     Pre-Board        Pre-             1             2             3
ACTIVITY                MONTH  Presentation  Effectiveness  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12
1. Buildings (by PWD)-
Start Construction of
Record Rooms
Start Construction of
Registration Offices
Complete Construction of
Record Rooms
Complete Construction of
Registration Offices
2-  Equipment and vehicles (Cabinets
furniture, stationary) 11
Prepare list of equipment
Purchase equipment and vehicles
Delivery
1/
3.  Staff-=
Prepare TOR of Consultant
Clearance IDA_/_
Advertise for consultant
Review applications
Clear with IDA!'/
Consultant in place
Prepare schedule of
additional staffing
Hire additional staff (indexing
and card writing).                                                       _      _______X_
2Details in Annex  9 and 21, Tables 1-5.                                                                                       0
2/
- Processing time reduced by 3 months if tenders less than US$100,000 necessitating no IDA approval.                             kc
1-18-77



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Farm Implements
YEAR     Pre-Board         Pre-           1             2             3             4            5
ACTIVITY              MONTH  Presentation  Effectiveness 3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9 12
1.  OUAT Design Unit-/
Engineers in place
prepare list of Equipment
Purchase Equipment and
Vehicle
Delivery
Begin testing and design
2. DAFP Manufacturing Unity!
Engineers and Sales
Personnel in place
Prepare list of Equipment
Purchase Equipment and
Vehicles
Delivery
Begin production
3.  DAFP Demonstration UnitI/
Prepare tender documents
for Equipment and Vehicles
Clear with IDA2/  (45 days)
Issue invitations (60 days)
Receive bids
Evaluate bids      (45 days)
Clear with IDA    (30 days)
Award contract    (15 days)
Delivery
Engineering Supervision in                                          _  _
place                                                                                                                                           
-LDetails in Annex 5 and 22, Tables 1-5.
-/Processing time reduced approximately 3 months if contract less than US$200,000 necessitating no IDA clearance.
1-18-77



ANNEX 29
INDIA                                                            Page 8
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Schedule of Implementation for Ground Water Surveys and Monitoring
YEAR(a)
1977-78             1978-79              1979-80
ACTIVITY                         JA                      MI AM |  I Al S OINJ J| F|M|A|MI J IJ|AISOIND
ORGANIZATION AND PLANNING
(1)  SCOPE & OBJECTIVES REVIEW
(2)  PERSONNEL & EQUIPMENT REVIEW
(3)  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE PREPARATION
(4)  GENERAL PLANNING AND REVIEW
STAFFING
(5)  HYDROLOGISTS (8) - RECRUIT AND HIRE
16)  TECHNICAL AND OFFICE STAFF - DO-
(7)  OBSERVERS - HIRE AND TRAIN                                                 -
(8)  DRILL CREWS - HIRE AND TRAIN
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
(9)  DESIGN AND SPECIFICATION PREPARATION
(10) BID INVITATIONS
(11) BID EVALUATIONS AND CONTRACTS AWARD
(12) DELIVERY
GROUND WATER SURVEYS
(13) GEOHYDROLOGIC INVESTIGATION
(14) WELL INVENTORY                                        -
(15) INTERPRETATION AND EVALUATION                         =          =    =
(16) MONITORING WELL SITE SELECTION                                                           7
(17) REPORT PREPARATION                                                                NW
MONITORING WELL INSTALLATION
(6)  (6)         (1 71    (6)
(18) EROSIONAL PLAIN (35)
119) COASTAL PLAIN (30)
OBSERVATION EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION
(20) STREAMFLOW AND RAINFALL GAGES                               _
(21) GROUND WATER LEVEL RECORDERS
MONITORING
t22) STREAMFLOW AND RAINFALL                                                                  l
(23) GROUND WATER LEVELS                                   -
124) SURFACE AND GROUND WATER QUALITY                      =    =    =    =                          =
(251 DATA COMPILATION AND RECORDATION                      =    =    =    =                          -    -
(26) ANNUAL REPORT PREPARATION
(a)  FISCAL YEAR, APRIL 1 THROUGH MARCH 31
World Bank-16241
July 1975



ANNEX 29
Page 9
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Schedule of Implementation for Shallow Tubewell Technology Development
YEAR (a)
ACTIVITY                                1977-78              1978-79             1979-80
ALMIJ JKAOSND J|F|M AMJOJLAIIS ONID JFIMSA|M|J IJIAMS O|N|D J|F 
ORGANIZATION AND PLANNING
(1l  SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES REVIEW
(2)  PERSONNEL & EQUIPMENT REVIEW
(3)  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE PREPARATION
(4)  GENERAL PLANNING AND REVIEW
STAFFING
(SI  ENGINEERS (4) - RECRUIT AND HIRE
(6)  OFFICE STAFF - RECRUIT AND HIRE
(7)  DRILL CREWS AND PUMP INSTALLERS -
HIRE AND TRAIN
RESEARCH AND DESIGN
(8)  EXISTING TECHNOLOGY EVALUATION
(9)  FOREIGN TECHNOLOGY INVESTIGATION
(10) WELL AND PUMP DESIGN PREPARATION
(1i1 EXPERIMENTAL PUMP FABRICATION
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
(12) SPECIFICATIONS PREPARATION
(13) BID INVITATIONS
114) BID EVALUATIONS & CONTRACTS AWARD
(15) DELIVERY                                           _         _
TUBEWELL AND PUMP INSTALLATION
116) SITE SELECTION AND RIGHTS OF WAY                      I
(17) FILTER POINT WELLS WITH HAND PUMPS (48)                 (6)  110)       (20) (12)
(18) FILTER POINT WELLS WITH SHP PUMPS 148)                   (6)  (10)      (20) (12)
TESTING AND DEMONSTRATION
(19) WELL AND PUMP OPERATION
(20) FARMER GUIDANCE                                               -    -          -   -          -
(21) PERFORMANCE EVALUATION                                     -  -    -          -              =-
(221 ANNUAL REPORT PREPARATION
(a)  FISCAL YEAR, APRIL 1 THROUGH MARCH 31
July 1976
World Bank-16242



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Farm Management Data Unit
YEAR     Pre-Board         Pre-             1             2             3              4             5
ACTIVITY                 MONTH  Presentation  Effectiveness  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9  12   3 6  9  12
1. Equipment/
List Equipment and Vehicles
required
Purchase equipment and
vehicles
Delivery
2. Staff1/
Advertise all posts
Request FAO consultant
Interview senior staff applicants
Select staff
Director in place
FAO consultant in place
Pilot study initiated and complete
FAO consultant leaves
Pilot survey results evaluated
Full survey initiated
I/Detais in Annex 13 and 25, Tables 1-3.
1-18-77
xQ
I-. m



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Agricultural Statistics and Data Processing
YEAR     Pre-Board        Pre-            1             2             3             4            5
ACTIVITY                  MONTH  Presentation Efei ess 3  6  9  123   6                  2  3  6  9 i12_3l
1/
1. Equipment and Vehicles-/
List Equipment and Vehicles tequired
Purchase Equipment and Vehicles
required
Delivery
2. Staff-'
Senior Staff in place at
State HQ
Training Director in place
Tabulation Team complete
Recruitment of District Staff
Recruitment of Field Staff
-/ Details in Annex 14 and 26, Tables 1-3.
1-18-77                                                                                                                                          X
F 



ANNEX 30
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference for Policy
Planning and Coordination Unit
1.        The Policy Planning and Coordination Unit (PPU) will be directly
responsible to the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC) in a staff
relationship. It will be headed by an Officer on Special Duty with the
rank of Additional Secretary. He will be assisted by one Economist, one
Agriculturist and a Systems Analyst. The Unit will have three cells:-
(a) Project Preparation;
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation; and
(c) Policy Planning.
2.        The PPU will be responsible not only for the Development Project
but for all future projects to be financed by the World Bank including the
Area Development and Ground Water Development Projects already appraised
and all other Projects that may be sponsored or implemented in future.
3.        The respective Secretaries and Heads of Departments will continue
to be responsible for project implementation under the general guidelines and
supervision of the APC, assisted by PPU. The PPU will not be responsible
for implementation but will serve as a contact point between implementing
Departments, GOO, GOI and IDA.
4.        The PPU's responsibilities for project preparation include, but
are not confined to:
(a) assisting the APC in the identification of suitable
priority agricultural projects;
(b) maintaining a schedule of preparation activities to be
undertaken by responsible departments and monitoring
timely preparation;
(c) coordinating and finalizing preparation of Projects
on a continuous basis consistent with available data
and in accordance with priorities as determined by
Government;



ANNEX 30
Page 2
(d) critically reviewing draft Project Reports and data
therein. Arranging inter-departmental dialogue when
necessary;
(e) consulting with the Finance and Planning Departments
of GOO - ensuring integration of Project with the
Plan and annual budget;
(f) final drafting of Project Preparation Report;
(g) securing clearance of GOO and GOI (including Planning
Commission);
(h) sponsoring projects through GOI; and
(i) obtaining such assistance as would be available from
GO1 and IDA for project preparation.
5.        The Project Preparation Cell will have two Research Assistants,
of whom one would be an Economist, and one a Statistician; also one
Stenographer and a Typist.
6.        The PPU's responsibilities for project monitoring and evaluation
include but are not confined to:
(a) establishing project objectives and time tables for
implementation;
(b) overseeing project implementation according to agreed
schedules;
(c) establishing adequate reporting procedures to enable
performance data on Projects including data provided
independently by BSE, OUAT Farm Management Data Unit
and DAFP to be completed and analyzed in a systematic
manner;
(d) assessing project performance against established objectives
and need for adjustments of findings and targets;
(e) submitting regular reports together with recommendations
for action to GOI and IDA;
(f) maintaining liaison with the Advisory Panel of Adaptive
Research and Extension;
(g) coordinating with other Sectoral activities; and



ANNEX 30
Page 3
(h) reviewing policies, identifying constraints and recommending
action; identifying constraints to project implementation and
making recommendations for appropriate action to APC.
7.        The Monitoring and Evaluation Cell will have one Research
Assistant, who will be an Economist, and a Stenographer.
8.        The PPU's responsibilities for policy Planning will include:
(a) analysing resources and potentialities;
(b) retrieving data from BSE/OUAT/DAFP;
(c) based on such data and such analysis and research findings
and on information supplied by respective Departments, advising
the APC on:
(i) long term policy, such as - cropping, land and
water use, grain prices, procurement, storage
and marketing, input pricing a distribution;
(d) assisting the APC in setting intersectoral priorities.
9.        The Cell will have two Research Assistants - of whom one Economist
and one Statistician, one Stenographer and a Typist.
10.       The Systems Analyst will be attached to Cells "B" & "C", the
Agriculturist to Cells "A" & "C" and the Economist to all three.
11.       Staff, if any, engaged in similar activity in the Department/
Directorate will be transferred to this Unit.



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield and Production                1/
Area, Yield Assumptions and Derived Production-
Present                       1980=/                       19842/
Kharif     Rabi    Total   Kharif      Rabi    Total   Kharif    Rabi       Total
--------------------------  (Thousand Hectares)   ----------------------------
Area assumptions
Rainfed                  4,620      980    5,600    4,330    1,100    5,430    4,120    1,240    5,360
Irrigated                  800      200    1,000    1,090       350    1,440    1,300        450    1,750
Total                 5,420    1,180    6,600    5,420    1,450    6,870    5,420    1,690    7,110
Yield assumptions -/       ------------------------   (Tons per Hectare)   -----------------------------
Rainfed                   0.84     0.50      0.78     0.90     0.50      0.82      1.09     0.60      0.98
Irrigated                 1.10     1.40     1.16      1.20     1.51      1.28     1.40      1.71      1.48
Total                  0.88     0.65     0.84      0.96     0.74      0.92     1.17      0.89      1.11
Derived production         ---------------------------  (Thousand Tons)  -------------------------------
Rainfed                  3,880      490    4,370    3,900        550    4,450    4,530       740    5,270
Irrigated                  880      280    1,160    1,310       530    1,840    1,820        770    2,590
Total                 4,760      770    5,530    5,210    1,080    6,290    6,350    1,510    7,860
1/  Foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds, actual 1974/75, projected 1979/80 and 1983/84; breakdown between
seasons and areas is Bank estimate.
2/  Estimates derived from projections of cropped area and expected uptake of package of practices (Annex 2).
3/ Based on yield of processed grain, ie, rice.
September 7, 1976                                                                                                    H x



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield and Production
Yield Assumptions for Package of Practices
Average of
Present            A                B            C(M)          C(ii)          C(iii)
Rainfed                     -----------                       (Tons per Hectare)   ----------------------------
Kharif         I/
Paddy (Rice)-            1.2 (0.8)      1.45 (1.0)      1.9 (1.3)       2.3 (1.5)      3.0 (2.0)        -
Maize                    0.7            1.0             1.3             1.7            2.1            2.5
Ragi                     0.9            1.3             1.8             2.0              -              -
Rabi
Pulses                   0.4            0.5             0.7          
Irrigated
With water control
Kharif
Paddy (Rice)             1.5 (1.0)      2.0 (1.3)       2.5 (1.7)       3.0 (2.0)      3.5 (2.3)        -
Rabi
Paddy (Rice)             2.0 (1.3)      2.3 (1.5)       3.2 (2.1)      4.0 (2.6)       4.5 (3.0)      5.0 (3.3)
Wheat                    1.6            1.8             2.3             2.6            3.0              -
Groundnuts              1.2             1.4             1.8             2.1              -
Pulses                   0.5            0.6             0.8               -              -
Without water control
Kharif
Paddy (Rice)            1.5 (1.0)       2.0 (1.3)       2.2 (1.5)      2.5 (1.7)       3.0 (2.0)        -
Rabi
Paddy (Rice)             2.0 (1.3)      2.3 (1.5)         -            2.5 (1.7)       3.0 (2.0)      3.5 (2.3)
Wheat                    1.6            1.8               -             2.2            2.5              -
1/  Yields for rice shown as paddy with rice equivalent (66% milling) in parenthesis.
(D >C
September 7, 1976



ANNEX 32
Page I
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.        To illustrate the possible effect of the project on typical farms,
five farm models have been selected:
(a) Rainfed farm with 0.75 ha cultivable land, growing upland,
medium and lowland rice in the kharif season and rainfed pulses -
the rabi season. 0.5 ha upland rice replaced 50% in year 1 and
100% in year 2 with ragi (finger millet). Medium and lowland
rice on 0.5 ha and 0.3 ha cropped with rabi pulses.
(b)  Rainfed farm with 2 ha cultivable land with similar cropping
pattern to (a).  1 ha upland rice replaced with ragi over 2
2 years.  Medium and lowland rice on 1 ha and 0.5 ha cropped
with rabi pulses.
(c)  Rainfed farm with 5 ha cultivable land with similar
cropping pattern to (a).  2 ha in upland rice replaced
with ragi over two years. 3 ha in medium and lowland rice
and 1.3 ha of rabi rainfed pulses grown.
(d) Partially irrigated farm with 0.75 ha cultivable land,
75% of land irrigable in kharif season and, of this, 50%
irrigated in rabi. Kharif cropping comprises 0.55 ha of
irrigated local rice, partly replaced with HYV rice at
full development and 0.2 ha rainfed rice. Rabi cropping
comprising 0.2 ha rainfed pulses and 0.3 ha HYV irrigated
rice; 0.1 ha of latter replaced with wheat at full develop-
ment.
(e) Partially irrigated farm with 2 ha cultivable land with
similar cropping pattern to (d). Kharif cropping comprises
1.5 ha of irrigated local rice, partly replaced with HYV rice
at full development, and 0.5 ha rainfed rice. Rabi cropping
comprising 0.5 ha rainfed pulses and 0.75 ha HYV irrigated
rice; 0.25 ha of latter replaced with wheat at full development.
2.        The rainfed farms are assumed to take up the package of practices
(Annex 2) adopting improved cultural practices (A) in Year 1, improved
cultural practices plus 20 kg N/ha fertilizer (B) in Year 3, and moving into
HYV seeds and higher fertilizer dressings (C) on 70% of the land in Year 5
and 6. A similar assumption is made for the irrigated farm, except for the
rabi rice crop, where it is assumed that HYV seeds are already being used.



ANNEX 32
Page 2
3.        Tables 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 summarize the total financial implications
for each farm. Other assumptions common to the five models are:
(i) working capital loan equivalent to 30% of value of inputs
(seeds, fertilizers and chemicals) at present with
incremental requirements supplied in addition until Year 6,
after which farmer assumed to supply larger share and full
requirement at Year 7. Interest on working capital, six
months at 12%;
(ii) loan for implements repaid over three years, one year grace
period; interest at 12%;
(iii) family consumption equivalent to Rs 1,400, deducted from
Balance after Debt Service to derive Cash Balance, is based
on 150 kg rice per each family member per year; or 900 kg
rice, 1.4 tons paddy per family of six members;
(iv) prices for products are paddy Rs 1,000/ton, finger millet
Rs 1,100/ton, pulses Rs 1,600/ton, wheat Rs 1,300/tons;
(v) operating costs include farm inputs (seeds, fertilizers and
chemicals), and irrigation charges, plus hired labor, bullock
costs, and implement repairs.
Attachments:
Table 1  0.75 ha Rainfed Farm
2 2 ha Rainfed Farm
3 5 ha Rainfed Farm
4 0.75 ha Irrigated Farm
5 2 ha Irrigated Farm
October 25, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Budget for Introduction of Farm Implements and
Improved Practices on 0.75 ha Rainfed Farm
Before                   Y          E        A        R         S
Item                 project        1       2        3         4        5         6        7-10
............................. .Rupees.
CASH INFLOW
Gross revenue                     800        960    1,190    1,600    1,640    1,780    1,950    1,950
Medium-term loan                    -         70         -        -        -         -        -
Working capital                    80         80        80      240      240       400      240         -
Total Cash Inflow                 880      1,150    1,270    1,840    1,880    2,180    2,190    1,950
CASH QUTFLOW
Investment in implements            -         70        -         -        -         -        -         -
Operating costs                   280        270      240       440      460       625      665       665
Total Cash Outflow                280        340       240      440      460       625      665       665
Balance before debt service
and family consumption            600        810    1,030    1,400    1,420    1,555    1,525    1,285
DEBT SERVICE
Repayment working capital          80         80       80       240      240       400      240         -
Interest on working capital         5          5        5        15       15        25       15
Medium-term loan interest
and repayment                    _          _         _         _        -         _       _
Total Debt Service                 85         85       85       255      255       425      255         -
Balance after debt service          515        725      945    1,145    1,165    1,130    1,270    1,285
CASH BALANCE - Annual              (885)      (675)    (455)    (255)    (235)    (270)    (130)    (115)



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Budget for Introduction of Farm Implements and
Improved Practioes on 2 ha Rainfed Farm
Before                   I      e     a            7-1
projeOt     1        2       3       4        5        6        7-10
'-SOUPS ................ ..... ,Rupees ..... S  -
CASH I1fFLOI
Gross rvenue                 2,23D     2,660    3,290   4t440   4,550    4,930    5,400      5,400
Kodiun-term loan                 -       -210       -       -       -        -        -         -
Working capital                2O0       3)0     2D0      600    600      1. __Q. ----k
Total Cash inflow            2,42D)   3,070    39490   5,040   5,150    5,930   6,000        5t400
CASH OWTPLOW
Investment in implnents          -       210        -      -       -        -        -
Operating costs                7                       j0 1,o@ 1i140 j1.0 31j   1 .660
Total Cash Oatflow             700       880      600   1,100   1,140    1,560   i,660       1,660
Balance before debt service
and family conoumption       1,720    2,190   2,890  3,940   4,010    4,370    4,340         3t740
DEBT SERVICE
Repaymet working capital      2a0        200      2)o     600     600    1,000      600
Interest on workiLi fi,apital   10        10       10      40      40       60       40          -
Mediun-term loan interest
and repayment                           25      135    115       _         _ 
Total Debt Service             210       235      PA5     755     640    1,060      640          -
Balance after debt service     1,510     1,955    2,545   3,185   3,370    3,310    3,700      3,740
CASH BALANC1S                    110       555    1,145   1,785   1,970    1,910    2,300      2,340
n >C



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finanoial adit for Introduotion of Fer. Implements and
Imroved Praotices >a 5 ha RaMfed Far
Before                   T       *    a      r    U
project     1        2       3      4         5        6        7-10
*.. .......b..... .-..e...e...a Ruas  *....o.........Oe
CASH INFL
,ros revene                  6,025   6,845   8,250   11,t15  11,340   12,360   13,760    13,760
Nedium-term loan             -          560   -         -       --                -         -
Working capital                330      330      330      92  -950    1,650         iO     -
Total Cash Inflow            6,355   7,735   8,580   12,065  12,290   14,010   14,710    13,760
CASH OUTFLOW
Inestamt in implmeuts                   560    -        -       -          285    -         -
Operating costs               "38     2 42D    20 30     4is    A 0   5,12D    5660           6-0
TPotal Cash Outflow           3,390   3,480    2,560   3,960  4,150   5,405    5,66         5,660
Baloce before debt service
and family consumption        2,965  4t255   6,020   8,105  8,140   8,605   -9,050          8,100
INST SMVICZ
Repaymnt working capital        330    330    *330        950   1 950    1,4)p      950
Interest o workirg capital       O) O)                     60      60      19              -_
Redius-term loam interest        -                                       -          -       -
and repayment
Total Debt Service              350     415      675   o1,305   1,010    1,750    1,010
Balance after debt service      11#5   3,840   5,345    6,800   7,130    6,855    8,040       8,100
CASH BU^UICI:                   i       2,440   3,945    5,410   5,730    5,455    6,640      6,700
I.J



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Budget for Introduction of Farm Implements and
Improved Practices on 0.75 ha Irrigated Farm
Item                Before                      Y        E         A        R         S
project      1        2         3         4         5        6         7-10
................................ Rupees.
CASH INFLOW
Gross revenue                     2,210    2,430    2,800    3,300    3,400    3,690    3,970    4,170
Medium-term loan                      -       150       250        -         -         -         -
Working capital                     150       150       200      230       250       330       380         -
Total Cash Inflow                 2,360    2,730    3,250    3,530    3,650    4,020    4,350    4,170
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment in implements                      150      250         -         -         -         -        -
Operating costs                     800       800      885    1,200    1,250    1,560    1,770    1,770
Total Cash Outflow                  800       950    1,135    1,200    1,250    1,560    1,770    1,770
Balance before debt service
and family consumption            1,560    1,780    2,115    2,330    2,400    2,460    2,580    2,400
DEBT SERVICE
Repayment working capital           150       150       200      230       250       330       380         -
Interest on working capital          10        10        10       15        15        20        25
Medium-term loan interest
and repayment                       -        20      120       230       130         -         -
Total Debt Service                  160       180       330      475       395       350       405         -
Balance after debt service          1,400    1,600    1,785    1,855    2,005    2,110    2,175    2,400
CASH BALANCE                            _       210       395      465       615       720       785    1,010



IN DIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Budgot for Introduction of Farm ImDlements and
Improved Practices on 2 ha Irrigated Farm
Before                     Y      e      a      r     e
Item                 projeot      1         2       3       4         5         6        7-10
CASH INFLOW
Gross revenue                  4,720    5,220    6,ooo    7,090   7,290    7,920    8,520        8,950
Xedium-term loan                    -      210       350        -       -         -        -
Working capital                   330      330      440       490     530       700      820
Total Cash Inflow              5,050    5,760    6,790    7,580   7,820    8f620    9,340        8,950
CSH OUWFL*OW
Investment in implements           -       210      253         -       -         -        -
Operating costs                1,775    1,775    11,00    2,575   2,690.   3,340    3,790         3,790
Total Cash Outflow             1,775    1,985    2,250    2,575   2,690    3,340    3,790         3,790
Balance before debt service
and family consumption         3,275    3,775    4,540    5,005   5,130    5,280    5,550        5,160
DEBT SSRVICE
Repayment working capital         330      330       -20      490     530       700      820
Interest an workinr capital        20       20       25        30      35        40       50
Medium-term loan interest
and repayment                     -               15        320     185                  -
Total Debt Servioe                350      375       &)       840     750       740      370
Balance after debt service        2,925    3,400    ., *1    4,165   4,380    4,540    4,680        5,160
CASH BALANCE                      1,525    2,000    2,31)    2,765   2,930    3,140    3,280        3,,60
En
mx



ANNEX 33
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
A. Present Situation
Marketable Surplus
1.        Most of Orissa's total production of about 4 M tons of rice is now
consumed by the farm families that produce it. Nevertheless a not insignifi-
cant amount, some 12%, or about 480,000 tons, comes on to the wholesale
market. Including trade at primary village markets, the total traded may be
as much as 25 to 30% or about 1 M tons. Even a cultivator who raises only,
say, four months' consumption from his land, may retain only three months'
consumption and sell the rest at harvest to meet immediate expenditure. Later
in the year he buys foodgrains, either from the public distribution system or
from bigger cultivators in the village.
2.        In the case of other foodgrains and pulses, the proportion of mar-
keted crop is higher, up to 50%; but total production is comparatively low,
so that approximately 150-200,000 tons each of other foodgrains and pulses
enter the market.
Market System
3.        There are about 1,400 primary or village markets in the State, so
that producers, except in the less populated parts, normally have direct
access to a weekly outlet. There are also approximately 170 assembling mar-
kets, linked with a small number of terminal markets at district centers,
such as Cuttack and Berhampur, where grain is collected in bulk for storage
and distribution in major towns or movement to another State. At village
markets, producers often sell direct to consumers. They also sell to traders
usually local, who stock for resale to wholesalers at secondary markets.
4.        Producers are generally able to deliver their small quantities to
the local market by headloads in baskets, or in bullock carts. There are
plans to improve market access of villages in isolated areas by road building
under a GOO "minimum needs program". Overall communication in Orissa, however,
is poor compared to all-India standards and large scale movement of grains
from such markets to secondary and terminal centers is often difficult.



ANNEX 33
Page 2
Rice Procurement
5.        In order to stabilize prices and to help ensure minimum food needs
are met, especially during shortages, it is Government of India policy each
year to procure a substantial proportion of marketed grain for stocking and
resale. In Orissa State, the annual procurement program applies only to paddy
and rice and now consists of three main elements:
(a) The State Government (GOO) official monopoly for the
wholesale trade in rice. Licensed millers are required
to buy paddy at officially fixed prices and deliver rice
under GOO directions. When open market prices are higher
than the official procurement prices, it is inevitably
difficult for GOO to enforce control effectively. During
the 1974/75 season, GOO used a compromise scheme whereby
millers were required to deliver 75% of their output at
official prices and were allowed to sell the remaining
25% on the free market at more attractive prices. For
1975/76, when supplies were more plentiful and open market
prices lower, GOO reverted to the system of monopoly whole-
sale trade.
(b) Because it is difficult to procure adequate tonnages
through the millers, GOO introduced, for the 1975/76
kharif season only, a levy on the larger paddy producers,
whereby every grower with more than 4 irrigated or 8
unirrigated acres of paddy was required to deliver a
portion of his output to official purchase centers.
The amount of the levy was related to his acreage
according to a sliding scale and he was paid for it
at the official procurement price plus approved
transport costs.
(c) The authorities also purchase local handpounded and huller
processed rice when the local situation required, as well
as offering to buy paddy and rice from voluntary suppliers.
In addition, stocks may be requisitioned from bigger pro-
ducers at official prices where this is considered neces-
sary to discourage hoarding.
6.        To help make these measures effective, the unlicensed movement of
paddy and rice either out of the State, or out of surplus producing areas
within the State, has to be prohibited. There are, nevertheless, great
practical difficulties in enforcement especially when producers or millers
are required to sell substantially below free market levels.
7.        In implementing its procurement and distribution program, GOO
uses a variety of agencies, including the District Collectors' administration,



ANNEX 33
Page 3
the Revenue Department, the Food Corporation of India (FCI), private millers,
cooperatives and individual wholesalers and retail merchanLs. During 1975/76,
GOO was not able to arrange for FCI procurement, and relied on its own adminis-
tration, operating primarily through private millers but also through coopera-
tives. The cooperatives which, by end of October 1976 had procured about
34,000 tons rice (15% of total procurement to that time) are not at present
equipped, either at primary or regional or Apex levels, to play a major role
in procurement, though GOO proposes to build up their responsibilities in
this field.
8.        Orissa, like other surplus producing State, is encouraged by GOI
to procure more rice than is needed for its local needs and so contribute
surpluses to the national buffer stock. Total quantity procured for all
purposes has varied from over 300,000 tons in 1969/70 to less than 75,000
tons in 1974/75 while dealings with the central pool have varied from a
235,000 tons contribution in 1968-69 to a demand for rice from the pool in
1974/75. Nevertheless procurement has never exceeded 8% of total rice pro-
duction and typically is 5-6%. In 1975/76, a very good year, procurement from
the 1975 kharif and part of the 1975/76 rabi had reached the target of 175,000
tons rice by 31st May and was expected to reach 234,000 tons by the end of
October 1/. Some 75,000 tons were expected to be offered to the central pool.
Storage
9.        In the private sector, storage available to traders and rice millers
is generally adequate for their needs, especially as the small scale buyers
turn over their purchases rather rapidly. However, in the public sector,
warehousing owned by FCI in Orissa is at present being used only for holding
foreign imported wheat. The Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) and the
State Warehousing Corporation (SWC) also provide specialized storage for
central grain stocks, and the latter has recently been commissioned by GOO to
store 40,000 tons of rice. There is some pressure on good warehousing in the
State and further construction has been planned.
10.       The cooperatives have about 24,000 tons of storage available for
paddy/rice at the regional level and present capacity for the public sector,
including storage hired in 1975/76, is estimated at 251,000 tons comprising:
1/ Procurement year is 1st November - 31st October.



ANNEX 33
Page 4
Average %
Existing        Foodgrain      Utilization
Capacity         Storage      for Foodgrains
-----Thousand Tons------
FCI                    109 /a           178              90
89 7   198
SWC/CWC                  7 /a           49               60
7 4/b   81
Cooperatives (RCMS)              74     22               30
353    249
/a Owned
/b Hired
A further 76,000 tons are under construction so that, with a 70% utilization
of this new construction for foodgrains, total availability for foodgrains by
1977 would be sufficient for about 300,000 tons. In 1975/76 there was consid-
erable pressure on storage and some paddy had to be stored under canvas on
wooden platforms.
Processing
11.       There are 2,985 rice mills officially recorded in the State, of
which the great majority are small hulling units. The larger mills can only
operate legally as official GOO agents and 177 are so licensed, 42 of which
are owned by cooperatives. Total milling capacity of the large mills is
estimated at about 1.1 M tons paddy, of which 90% is in the private sector, 7%
in the cooperative sector and 3% under FCI:
Annual Milling Capacity
FCI    Cooeratives       Private Millers       Total
---------------Thousand Tons Paddy---------------
18         77                 1,025            1,120
There are also large numbers of unregistered small hullers, estimated at
3,000-5,000, which handle a significant share of the paddy traded locally or
milled directly for producers.
12.       Though there is some scope for modernization, the capacity of the
rice milling industry in Orissa is ample for present and prospective needs,
and it is estimated that on average, the larger mills are operating at only
one-third of their full capacity.



ANNEX 33
Page 5
Prices
13.       Rice.  While the procurement system has some dampening effect on
average producer prices, the effect is offset somewhat because, when supplies
are seasonally plentiful, Government procurement reduces availability on the
open market and the procurement price acts as a support. Government pro-
curement price and average annual wholesale market prices for paddy compare
as follows:
1971     1972      1973    1974      1975      1976
------------    Rupees per ton paddy------------
Wholesale /a
market price       608       729       748    1032      1375 /b   N.A.
Procurement Ic
price              570       570      590      720       780      780
/a Annual average of prices collected from main wholesale markets;
source Food and Civil Supplies Department.
/b January to June.
/c Price for fine grade; course or superfine + Rs 40 per ton.
14.       In coastal districts there is effective competitive among traders
for available produce and producers get a fair price, but in nany areas where
communication is poor, especially in the hilly tracts, compe_ition is less
and local traders tend to pay much lower prices. This tends .o be so, not
unnaturally, in other areas also when there is a bumper crop. Small producers
are often in a weak position and local traders, acting as agents of principals
in the secondary markets, appropriate to themselves a larger share of the
consumer rupee.
15.       The good 1975 kharif crop provided an unusually large surplus of
rice an the open market price fell temporarily below the procurement price
in early 1976, subsequently recovering to around the procurement level.
B. Marketing of Project Output
Marketing Organization and Storage
16.       The pressures on the marketing system in 1975/76 emphasize the need
to look ahead and make provision for expected incremental production under
the project. With total output expected to produce an exportable surplus of
0.4 tons by 1980 and over 1 M tons by 1984, compared with a mean of 0.2 M



ANNEX 33
Page 6
tons in 1970/71 - 1973/74, the GOO procurement organization and storage
facilities will require strengthening. An all-India study of storage needs
for foodgrain over the next decade is currently being undertaken by the
Hyderabad Staff College, under an IDA credit. The results of this report
are being studied and would provide the basis for a sound contruction program.
GOI is discussing with the World Bank the possibility of finance for a grain
storage project and it is in this context that the accommodation of Orissa
surpluses should be considered, since procurement and resultant storage is
an all-India problem.
17.       With a large increase in the export surplus, the official procure-
ment price is likely frequently to be the effective support price. However,
since GOI is ready to acquire large tonnages to build up a national buffer
stock over several years, output in Orissa which is surplus to local market
needs should be readily absorbed, at least until India as a whole achieves a
reliable self sufficiency in foodgrain production. The current paddy procure-
ment prices can thus be reasonably taken as the basic prices for producers
under the project.
October 28, 1976



ANNEX 34
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
1.        Economic viability of extension and research, related training, and
farm implement demonstration, the main production oriented components of the
project, can be demonstrated by determining the yield increase necessary to
achieve an economic rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital
in India (thought to be about 12%). Full incremental investment and operating
costs, have therefore been discounted at 12% and the discounted incremental
net farm benefit stream (and hence crop quantity and yield) required to meet
that rate derived.
2.        In deriving the cost stream, extension, research and training costs
have been aggregated. No residual values have been placed on buildings or
equipment, since the objective is to indicate how small an incremental bene-
fit is necessary to achieve the illustrative 20% rate of return. Financial
prices have been used for all cost items. The foreign exchange component is
slight, so that shadow pricing of foreign exchange costs would have a negli-
gible effect on the result and is not attempted.
3.        The benefit stream and conversion to a yield figure to achieve the
given rate of return have been derived on the following assumptions:
(a) Benefits required have been measured against the total area
under paddy which is estimated at 4.5 million hectares. 1/
(b) An economic price for paddy of Rs 1,490 per ton is based on
Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, May 17, 1976 for milled rice
1985 at 1976 constant prices. Prices for Thailand 5% brokens
have been adjusted to allow for lower quality, that is 25-30%
brokens (Table 2).
1/   Whilst cropped area will increase, some switch to other cereals on
poor rice soils is expected so that rice area will remain fairly
constant.



ANNEX 34
Page 2
(c) The economic value (Rs 1,195 per ton) is derived by
deducting the incremental operating cost of producing
an incremental ton of paddy under the project (Rs 295)
from the economic price of paddy (Rs 1,490). Thirty
percent of all incremental labor required, 10 man days,
is considered to be hired at Rs 7/man-day.
(d) Benefits generated by the project would be 10% of
total benefit required to achieve the notional rate
of return by the end of Year 2, gradually increasing
to 30%, 60%, 80%, 90% in successive years to reach
100% by the end of Year 6; that is full benefits
required achieved in Year 7 (Table 1).
4.        Table 1 shows that, in order to realize a rate of return equal to
the opportunity cost of capital annual incremental production value from year
8 onwards, at 1976 prices, would need to reach about Rs 42 million (US$4.6
million). This is equivalent to an average yield increase over and above the
without-project situation of about 35,000 tons of paddy per year from year 8
onwards. Even if only 20% of farmers benefit at all, they would need to in-
crease their yields by an average of 40 kg/ha paddy (25 kg/ha rice). If only
contact farmers plus an additional 5% were to benefit, they would each need to
increase paddy yields by an average of only 60 kg/ha (40 kg/ha rice). Expe-
rience with reorganized extension in other States of India suggests these yields
would be exceeded by a very wide margin. The high expected rate of return is a
result of the substantial benefits of extension and research derived at rela-
tively small cost, from radical improvement in the effeciency of an existing
large extension service (with consequent sunk costs) and because improvement
in on-farm production is likewise expected to be achieved at little extra cost
to the farmer who would carry out existing operations more effeciently.
5.        Project risks are difficult to forecast being dependent on the
human response and the vagaries of the weather. However, returns on the
relatively small investment should remain satisfactory under nearly all
conceivable conditions.
Attached: Table 1 Economic Analysis
2 Economic Price of Paddy
October 28, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
----------   Benefits   --------------------
% of
---------   Cost Stream   -------------------                        @12%       Ultimate                Present
Extension               Extension       Farm                                    Benefit    Discount   Value of
Year    Service    Research   Training    Implements          Total       Discounted   Achieved    Factor    Receipts
1       18.88        12.73       1.92          2.21          35.74          31.88         -          .892         -
2       34.46        16.90       4.12          1.48          56.96          45.40         10         .797       0.079
3       24.65        10.52       2.76         1.31           39.24          27.90         30         .711       0.213
4       10.54         4.09        .89          1.05          16.57          10.52         60         .635       0.381
5        9.77         4.07        .91          1.05          15.8            8.96         80         .567       0.454
6        9.77         4.07        .91          1.05          15.8            7.99         90         .506       0.455
7        9.77         4.07        .91          1.05          15.8            7.14        100         .452       0.452
8-20     9.77         4.07        .91          1.05          15.8           33.82        100        2.141       2.141
Total         173.61                               4.175_t
Y3/ x 4.175 - 173.61
Y = Rs 41.63M incremental benefit stream required from Yr 8 onwards.
Incremental production required = 41.63M4
1,195 -
= 34,840 tons paddy/year
Incremental paddy yield  = 34,840T           7.7 kgfha
4.5M ha      77kgh
1/ Total project cost with 12% discount applied over 20 years.
2/ Benefit factor with 12% discount applied over 20 years.
3/ Value of incremental production required from year 8 onwards.
4/ Economic value of paddy: Rs 1490 - Rs 295 incremental operating costs (per incremental ton:
10 man days (30 man days total of which 10 are hired) x Rs 7; 50 kg fertilizer N x Rs 4.5).                                 H
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 34
Ta-BTe 
INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Economic Price for Paddy
1.  Milled Rice - Calcutta
Price milled rice 25-35% brokens                    1/
fob Bangkok                                    234-
Add cif to Calcutta and handling
to wholesale outlet                             35
26 ton in Calcutta
wholesale market
2. Costs of Milling and Handling Rice from Orissa (Farmgate) to Calcutta
Paddy - farm to mill, transport, in-store handling and storage charge
RB/tOn
Transport                             17.50 2/
Milling and handling                   30.00 3/
47.50/ton paddy
71.97/ton milled rice
Milled Rice - transport, storage and handling to wholesale market
Rs/ton
Transport, mill to railhead 4/        20.70
Rail to Calcutta                      25.00
Handling to wholesale market 5/       40.80
ff.50/ton milled rice
3. Economic Price Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Calcutta wholesale market
(tTS$269/ton) less milling and handling
charges Orissa to Calcutta, converted from rupees to dollars ORs9=US$l;
Rs 71.97 + 86.50 = US$17.6/ton milled rice)
9
US$(269-18) x 0.66 /
US$166 or Rs 1,490/ton paddy
1/  From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, May 17, 1976.  1985 forecast for
milled rice 5% brokens at US$359.4/ton x 0.65 for price of 25-35% brokens.
2/  Transport farm to millhead Rs 1.50/qtl or Rs 1.75 qtl to railhead.
3/  Miller paid Rs 20/ton for milling + Rs 10/ton commission and other
charges for 66% outturn.
4/  Say 50 km haul at Rs 0.67/qtl for 15 km plus Rs 0.04/qtl/km over.
'/ Handling charges and commission.
M/ Hilling percentage.
August 19, 1976



INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
XCHIE MINITE
Chi,f Secreta- y                                               A dditonal Chief Secretary
Pin nrng and Cuoerdicaio                                                  Reenet and Eecrse
t A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
eureao ~   ~      ~        L et Steitic &                 < EcooisBar  tae
'   l                                    r        p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agiusore Saitcs P annn    DareFeen
ltilgatioX                         |         and Coordinatiull  X                                          |      AgriculturaE Co-oPAericrltura Productio
r-r>L;:r>oa   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rIsoI iannino
Shaiiom  DroundmaicrUiirueh  Froreor        onirorico                 PoirnyPiannino             Agriusitos and                   OCR CtAgficuinureuDaan RRsearc
Impisment                      Dean Coiieoe          LucoSEac 
---Er~ ~~~~T-9J
A.'DiC-n                 iJDA                      ,i
Data U,ri
Matr Depuny Diior | 4 V LA                t    t 
16 Farm Manaesment           4 Zonai Stationa
AdtneF Eparts
F Ar
R.aDAO
AED






INDIA
ORISSA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Or,anzation
CHIEF MINISTER
MINSTEeSX
En                                                                                                                     B.  T
L  r  { . 1 S  <  S                                      1 1  ? j X i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cnma,ae inPcn C ratnLs                    L nna 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               1                          &
AI C                                                                                                                                              -ld   9-k-1 6980~~I  l 
St       t         a
Snttt       rSe-.n-latatn rRt 1 
Fanhere natn  rrtbolon urd Hl          Asotcoltotn 11 taoelopmenl
An,,nal      Rot,..       Dnotlopmntet  Cn-nnatot,on  & SoOale
belween~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Win                                     Co-apatoln atnndo,n       PtnOnt,a      SoIat






IBRD 12339
~ <   Lu   C H I N A             83;                            ) I 84^      '                ro Rcrrr, \ 852     * yf OoJSsmoo.bor     8 Mp.J tr Ts omstEprr   >                  T 8T-  SEPTEMSER T976
PAKTISTAN e    2                                                                                                                           I    H    A      R      R
I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                 E )  W    N' R   (    W S    BEGAL
; S r 1   ; 9CA AA . L . r.,  2Z-                        Cl S<8  UNDARGARH,;       //  \               TS *_J4                       P      S-                     -jt     _
SAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
to                                                                                                                                          22'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
S tosn\t (/wNT--*                                                                                                                                               hOBaAVr  C: ><r.2 {l    I i SARIPADA
ThoT , 2 ro f  ta  S   1- ./W- 2/                  rtM                                                                  -.  2~':                                                                               STgr  \-  /ENH      OII 
'Fr2CIX&I ZJII 2   "         SI22 X ... rep ...... Degor,  /    i r  i / f   AO                           N\J 1-1  I '                                                     BALASORE      -
v~~~~~~~~~~~5    BAL ANGRgs                                                                                                           xNr*oe A   L            nUR(  sr>o<    2    -s
BoreIron~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
i/~~~~~~~~~ \~              -P                            Ojrs rai HgihngphonsTpr  ._3  p_/
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ATe                                                           K X,,-  N <iS0:   hv
A?  X  \  /4   <  g)   4'     (PH    LG AN L  A             TN                                       p-Ar
CN    i. \~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  O  09
_PHULBANInpur>   /    gRoof< k t /     BehgwliAGRICULTURA   INTENSIFICATION  PROJECUT                            T
K  S>eS                 C  R  A  P F</ U ; T ) 8 t  ( H JU L B A 
-1s/-  W >   > <              -d       S    t     X      ?;  S:3  4<       X      M?>;<;                                      E             r   AIDP!CS2CCWICP;XhS;F$OWI;    $A ES_W6
K (A/  \ // 1 tdoge   _/        <            ii    t      <         0     0     ;                      D A  \    5 \       83  eripSss bNd9UOntthf df rnonsAotv  g fhoornnT
X < A g ! t t < i curTo Qg w,. seodquPrtt,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ooorrio rrrrr oorr
Jb  J   v   A N  D H R A  P RA  D  E S H    Y  I          2-   u,                       khd0                                                       20j 40                bI        dOA
:   h2-  To shokhzpolns>/   !TF . i;   . F  81t  0                        815-                               d,rfq                       ol rgs
'~~~~' Il-k                                  .                                                               0     TO    AT    60    ST   ITT   lOT   ITT   ITT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ddtW f"& 1 ~.
KJ-
7                                                    0          20         4~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 op  12R  ITO 
oVororro~~~~~~~~~~~~~orror  rr~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~'~~~~'                                       KLMETES
ANDHRA     P                                                                                                               0         20                               80 '  6'  05  So



