CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 682 IN
ORISSA PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Orissa Agricultural Development Project)
between
THE STATE OF ORISSA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 1, 1977


﻿ORISSA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 1977, between the STATE OF ORISSA,
acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Orissa) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "OLIC" means Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation Limited,
a corporation registered under the Companies Act, 1956 of the
Borrower, and includes any successor thereof; and
(b) "DAFP" means the Directorate of Agriculture and Food
Production of Orissa.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and en-
gineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) For the purpose of better coordination be-
tween the agencies implementing the Project, Orissa shall establish
a Policy Planning and Coordination Unit in such detail and with
such terms of reference as shall be acceptable to the Association.
(b) For the purpose of efficient implementation of the build-
ings component under the Project and to expedite disbursements re-
lated thereto, Orissa shall, (i) establish a Buildings Implementa-
tion Unit (BIU) within the Public Works Department of Orissa or
such other Department of Orissa as the Association may agree, and
(ii) appoint a Director of BIU with suitable qualifications and
experience.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) Orissa undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by Orissa to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Orissa
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Orissa shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Orissa: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿-5-
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so made available to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. In order to ensure the mobility of staff engaged
in extension work under the Project, Orissa undertakes to make avail-
able to all such staff who are in need of credit for the purchase of
suitable means of transport, such credit, on terms and conditions
which shall be sufficient to create incentive for the purchase of
such means of transport.
Section 2.07. Orissa shall cause OLIC to:
(i) establish promptly and maintain a separate unit
to conduct ground water surveys and monitoring
with such terms of reference and composition as
may be mutually agreed upon between Orissa and
the Association; and
(ii) implement a three-year program of research, design,
installation and field testing of inexpensive shal-
low tubewells, together with low-cost alternative
systems of irrigation water extraction and distribu-
tion, and to appoint adequate staff to conduct said
program.
Section 2.08. Orissa shall strengthen its Bureau of Statis-
tics and Economics with such additional staff as shall be adequate
to undertake a statistical data collection and processing System
in order to cover annually about 10,400 villages, and shall make


﻿-6-
arrangements for adequate training of field staff in statistical
methodology and practical field work.
Section 2.09. (a) Orissa undertakes to provide adequate
housing facilities to enable its village level workers engaged
in extension services to live in the area assigned for their
operations.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, in re-
spect of houses for village level workers to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit, Orissa shall, (i) within two months from
the date of this Agreement, furnish to the Association for its
review the standard design and cost estimates for such houses,
and (ii) within six months from the date of this Agreement, com-
plete a survey to determine the number and locations of such
houses.
Section 2.10. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the
Project, Orissa shall, in consultation with the Association, make
arrangements with OUAT for the strengthening of applied and
adaptive agricultural research and support for farm management
data collection and evaluation at OUAT. Such arrangements shall
include inter alia the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.11. For the purpose of effective implementation and
monitoring of expenditures under Part E of the Project, Orissa
shall appoint a Farm Implements Committee consisting of representa-
tives of DAFP, OUAT and the Orissa Agro-Industries Corporation, and
chaired by the Joint Director Agriculture (Engineering) in DAFP.


﻿-7-
Section 2.12. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Orissa of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Orissa shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to maintain separate records adequate to re-
flect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices their operations and financial condition
related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Proj-
ect or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the As-
sociation; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning the accounts and fi-
nancial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
Orissa and the Association thereunder shall terminate on the ear-
lier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Orissa
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Orissa:
Agricultural Production Commissioner
Government of Orissa
Bhubaneswar, Orissa
India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bhubaneswar


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by a Sec-
retary to the Government of Orissa or such other person or persons
as Orissa shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Orissa shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Orrisa,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by Orissa pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE STATE OF ORISSA
By /s/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s! Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.I. Contracts for equipment, materials and civil works may be let
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts with respect to scientific equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than t50,000 equivalent may be let through
normal trade channels.
3.   Whenever possible, contracts for vehicles and equipment shall
be bulked together.
B.1. With respect to all contracts for equipment and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Orissa shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 114-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Orissa
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Orissa shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its exe-
cution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, reommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform Orissa and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Arrangements to be made with
OUAT Pursuant to Section 2.10
1.   Applied research stations of OUAT at Bhubaneswar, Chiplima,
Simliguda and Keonjhar shall be included under the Project.
2.   OUAT shall provide permanent professional staff on a full
time basis to do research on the DAFP adaptive research
farms at 13 agricultural ranges in Orissa.
3.   OUAT shall establish a Central Research Coordination Unit at
Bhubaneswar.
4.   The Farm Management Data Unit of OUAT shall be expanded
under a Director and a suitable number of farm management
staff shall be appointed at the headquarters and the four
zonal basic research stations of OUAT.
5.   OUAT shall comply with the provisions of this Agreement as
far as they shall relate to OUAT in carrying out Part B of
the Project.


