CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 360 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 360 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 22, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        March   22,   1973,   between REPUBLIC     OF
TURKEY      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedul 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to forty-four million dollars ($44,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "DSI" means Deviet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works), an agency of
the Borrower under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of the Borrower,
and includes any successor to such agency;
(c)   "Topraksu" means an agency of the Borrower under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Village Affairs, and includes any successor to such agency;
(d)   "Extension Service" means an agency of the Borrower under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, and includes any
successor to such agency;
(e)   "TCZB" means the Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic, or any
successor thereto;
(f)   "TEK" means the Turkish Electricity Authority, or any successor
thereto;
(g)   "Executing Agencies" means the agencies and legal entities defined
in sub-sections (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this Section;
(h)   "Project Area" means that area of about 108,000 gross hectares on
both banks of the Ceyhan River, within the Province of Adana and adjacent to
and east of the Seyhan Irrigation Project, which is to be developed as an irrigation
area; and
(i)   "Reservoir Area" means that portion of the Ceyhan River valley which
is to be flooded, up to an elevation of 160 meters above mean sea level, for use
as a reservoir.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services upplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1983, and ending November 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Executing
Agencies with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, agricultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist DSI in the preparation of bid documents,
specifications, revision of final designs and approval of working drawings prepared
by the contractors during construction, preparation of withdrawal applications, the
review of the evaluation of bids, preparation of contract documents, and supervision
of the construction of the dam and power plant specified in Parts A and B of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause DSI to employ a firm of engineering
consultants acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association.
(b)   In order to assist Topraksu and the Extension Service in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall cause Topraksu and the Extension Service to employ
engineering and agricultural consultants acceptable to the Bank and the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Association by April 1,
1974, in the case of Topraksu and by March 1, 1975, in the case of the Extension
Service or such other date or dates as shall be agreed with the Bank and the
Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist DSI in resolving any special problems which
arise in connection with the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause DSI to retain an independent group of four specialists
acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association by August 1, 1974, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank and the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause to be employed contractors
acceptable to the Bank and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agencies to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Executing Agencies to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause TEK to construct, at its own expense
and by June 30, 1980, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank and
the Association, a transmission line connecting the switchyard specified in Part
B of the Project with the main electricity grid.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of coordinating the works undertaken by the
Executing Agencies in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall establish within
six months of the date on which the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement become effective and maintain in existence until the date of the
completion of the Project, a Project Coordinating Committee mutually acceptable
to the Borrower, the Bank and the Association.
Section 3.08. For the purpose of assisting the Executing Agencies in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall by March 1, 1974. or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank and the Association and thereafter by the same date
in each following year until the date of the completion of the Project, cause each
of the Executing Agencies to prepare an annual training program of on-the-job
and overseas training for staff engaged in works related to the carrying out of
the Project, that is satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and the Association.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agencies to furnish
to the Bank and the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agencies: (i) to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project, (ii) to enable the


﻿8
Bank's and the Association's accredited representatives to visit the Project Area
and see the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank and the
Association all such information as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire by June 30, 1975, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank and the Association, all land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for the Reservoir Area and, as and when needed, all
such other land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank and the Association, promptly after any such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause DSI, Topraksu and the Extension
Service to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their operations and
financial condition in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause DSI, Topraksu and the Extension Service
to: (i) have such accounts and their financial statements, namely their balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies in
English of their provisional financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, in English of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank and the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank and the Association such other information concerning
their provisional accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank and the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (i) cause DSI, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, to inspect the Aslantas Dam and


﻿w                                 9
its appurtenant structures and the Ceyhan River flood protection dykes from time
to time, to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies
in the condition of such structures or in the quality and adequacy of their
maintenance or operation which may endanger their safety and furnish a report
in English every five years to the Bank and the Association, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall have reasonably requested,
the first such report to be furnished by not later than December 31, 1985, or
such other date as shall have been agreed with the Bank and the Association and
(ii) take any remedial action that is required to correct such deficiencies or potential
deficiencies.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that the flow of water in the Ceyhan River is not depleted,
as a result of other development works, below the minimum that is required for
the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Executing Agencies to have such
powers, ficilities and resources as are necessary for the diligent and efficient carrying
out and operation of the Project. Any import, exchange or other licenses required
by successful bidders for civil works and equipment contracts under international
*       competitive bidding, for the importation of goods or the supply of services for
the Project shall be issued by the Borrower without delay.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause a revision of the existing feasibility
study to be carried out and completed by December 31, 1977, or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Bank and the Association, on the best methods for
the introduction of irrigation in the Dortyol and Yumurtalik plains on the
Mediterranean coast adjoining the Project Area.
Section 4.06. For the purpose of providing the Project Area with an
integrated extension service, the Borrower shall establish within three months of
the date on which the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement
become effective, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank and the
Association, and maintain in existence for at least ten years after the date of the
completion of the Project, a project extension service for the Project Area under
the direction of a qualified and experienced full-time manager.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall at all times provide, or cause TCZB to
provide, appropriate short and medium-term credit facilities in adequate amounts
to farmers in the Project Area.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
and the Association, for the setting of charges levied on farmers in the Project


﻿10
Area at levels which will provide revenues at least sufficient to cover all on-farm
development as well as operating and maintenance costs and, in addition, provide
for the recovery, on reasonable terms and conditions, of the remaining moneys
invested in the Project together with reasonable interest thereon, taking into account
the relationship of the investment recovery rate to farmers' incentives and capacity
to pay. Such charges will be subject to periodic reviews at intervals not exceeding
five years.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included in
the Project to be operated and maintained, and to be renewed from time to time
as necessary, in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering, economic
and financial policies and practices and shall take such action as shall be reasonably
required to ensure the economic use of the water made available by such works
for agricultural development.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, of the Executing Agencies and of any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations resources and expenditures. in respect


﻿11
of the Project, of the Executing Agencies and of any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such princinal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative
and governmental action; and
(b)   DSI has appointed the consultants specified in Section 3.02(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The   date  June   22, 1973    is hereby  specified  for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.06
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
Hazine, Ankara
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Muammer Akinci
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿14                                             -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds
to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed
in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works:
Dam and Power                 20,900,000         35% of total
Plant                                            expenditures
II.   Civil Works:
Irrigation, Drainage          18,800,000         31% of total
and Flood Protection                             expenditures
Dikes
IIL1  On-Farm Development,          3,600,000          15% of total
Buildings and Other                              expenditures
Facilities
IV.   Imported Equipment           22,100"000          100% of foreign
and Livestock                                    expenditures or
in the case of
imported equip-
ment procured
from local
dealers' stock,
70% of total
expenditures
V.    Consultants and               2,100,000          100% of foreign
Training                                         expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                   6,500,000
TOTAL              74,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Bank and the
Association at the request of the Borrower or, after full withdrawal of all amounts
of the Credit, by the Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿16
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank and the Association
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Loan and of the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Bank and the Association or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)  if the Bank and the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank and the Association
under the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Bank's
and the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of
the proceeds of the Loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I,
II or III, shall increase and no proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Bank and the Association or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals tinder any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A     Aslantas Darn
The construction of an earthfill dam on the Ceyhan River, to be called
the Aslantas Dam, with a storage capacity of 1,190 million cubic meters
serving irrigation flood control and power generation.
Part B     Power Facilities
An above ground power plant with three 46 MW units, switchyard
and appurtenances.
Part C     Irrigation, Flood Protection and Drainage
The construction of irrigation conveyance canals on both banks of
the Ceyhan River with distribution systems served by gravity on about
99,000 hectares and with pumps on about 9,000 hectares, drainage
systems and about 60 kilometers of flood protection dikes giving a
river channel capacity of 1,600 cubic meters per second.
Part D      On-Farm Development
On-farm development would include land leveling and land planning
about 97,000 hectares, the construction of about 1,455 kilometers of
surface drains, tile drains on about 6,000 hectares, soil reclamation
on about 2,000 hectares and about 485 kilometers of feeder roads.
Part E     Buildings and Other Facilities
These include the construction of three Operation and Maintenance
centers for DSI with ancillary staff housing, office and storage
accommodations; one center with staff houses and other facilities for
Topraksu; three Extension Service centers with 20 sub-centers with
staff houses, offices, stores; and livestock demonstration sheds.


﻿18
Part F     Equipment, Machinery and Livestock
Procurement of equipment, machinery and vehicles for the irrigation
system, on-farm development and extension services, together with
miscellaneous demonstration and laboratory equipment and livestock.
Part G     Consultants and Training
A group of specialists would be retained and a consulting firm would
be employed for the Aslantas Dam and power plant. In addition other
consultants would be employed to assist Topraksu and the Extension
Service. Provision will be made for training project staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for the construction of the dam and the civil
works for the power plant specified in Parts A and B of the Project, bidders shall
be prequalified by a prequalification board to be constituted by DSI in accordance
with existing legislation using criteria satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and
the Association. Before qualification is invited DSi will inform the Bank and the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall take into
consideration any comments on the said procedure which the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably make. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications, a detailed report by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement on the evaluation of applicants and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any such applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by DSI to the Bank and the Association for their comments before the
applicants are notified and DSI shall make such additions to or deletions from
the said list as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    With respect to all contracts for the Project except for Part G thereof
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more in the case of contracts
for civil works and $25,000 or more in the case of contracts for equipment,
materials and supplies.
(a)   Contracts for the irrigation works, dikes and drainage systems specified
in Part C of the Project shall be grouped for each invitation to bid so as to have
a total estimated value of not less than $7,000,000. Bidders will be 'vited to
tender for the total or for any of the identified separable parts of such group.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause the Bank and the
Association to be given, for their comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause such
modifications in the said documents or procedures to be made as the Bank and
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's and the Association's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, cause the Bank and the Association to
be informed of the name of the bidder to whom it is intended to award the contract
and shall cause the Bank and the Association to be given in sufficient time for
0


﻿20
their review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Bank and the Association
shall, if they determine that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
and the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
and the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank or the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
3.    Notwithstanding the procedures set forth as referred to in Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, any contract for civil works for not more than the equivalent
of $100,000 and any contract for the procurement of imported equipment,
materials and supplies required for the Project which is not estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more, is hereby exempted from procurement on the basis
of international competition provided that the aggregate of all such contracts shall
not exceed the equivalent of $500,000. Two conformed copies of each such
contract shall be furnished to the Bank and the Association promptly after its
execution.
4.    With respect to all contracts for goods and services for the Project which
are not to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit and estimated
to cost the equivalent of at least $100,000 for civil works contracts and $25,000
per unit for equipment, materials and supplies: (i) the Borrower shall cause the
Bank and the Association to be given draft specifications in respect of such goods
and services, for their comments, prior to the issue of invitations to bid and any
such comments will be taken into consideration before bidding documents are issued
to prospective bidders and (ii) two conforned copies of each contract shall be
furnished to the Bank and the Association promptly after it execution.
5.    With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall cause the Bank and
the Association to be given, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank or the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request. The Bank and the Association shall, if they


﻿21
determine that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
6.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
7.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
the Bank and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Turkey of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-.preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offeri-g goods
manufactured in Turkey.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
8.    For equipment included in Category IV of the Allocation of Loan Proceeds
set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference
may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall
be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison
with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in
the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
9.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿22
Stage                Bids to be Compared                 Preference
I                All Preferred Domestic Bids           None
and Non-preferred Domestic
Bids.
II         (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under             Add Domestic
Stage I, if Preferred                  Preference
Domestic Bid, with all                 Margin to
Foreign Bids;                          Foreign Bids
0o
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under             None
Stage I, if Non-preferred
Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III              If lowest evaluated bid under          None
Stage II is not the lowest
evaluated bid under Stage 1.
all Foreign Bids.
10.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


