Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H137-KG 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Rural Education Project) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 3, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H137-KG 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 2005, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend a grant to the Recipient in support of the Project, upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 
1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a school eligible to receive and administer a Sub-
grant (hereinafter defined) for a Sub-project (hereinafter defined) selected in accordance 
with criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (hereinafter defined); 
 
(b) 
“BoTs” means the Board of Trustees of each school established by Order 
#
621-1 of the Ministry of Education of the Recipient dated December 1, 1999 which will 
be responsible for the supervision of Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, prepared and adopted by the Recipient, describing the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures under the Project; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Letter of Textbook Development Policy” means the Recipient’s letter 
dated November 5, 2004 describing the actions of the Government regarding textbook 
development policy and referred to in Part C.1 (f) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“MoE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(g) 
“MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual to be adopted by 
the Recipient, setting forth the operational and administrative procedures in respect of the 
preparation, selection, evaluation, approval, processing, financing and implementation 
and supervision of Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project, as well as procedures for 
implementation of the Project, including criteria, approval and implementation 
procedures of teacher incentives under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project, and which 
includes the EMP as its integral part, as such manual may be amended from time to time 
upon agreement with the Recipient and the Association; 
 
(i) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit operating within MoE 
which will be responsible for the management and implementation of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
November 8, 2004 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means an account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(l) 
“Sub-grant” means a sub-grant made or proposed to be made to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Grant for the carrying out of a Sub-project; 
 
(m) 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
PIU, on behalf of MoE, and an eligible Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“Sub-project” means a specific project under Part B.1 of the Project, 
which is proposed to be carried out by an eligible Beneficiary utilizing a Sub-grant;  
 
(o) 
“TAB” means the Textbook Approval Board to be established by the 
Recipient under Part C.1 (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 
3
of
Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(p) 
“TRF” means the Textbook Rental Fund to be established by the 
Recipient under Part C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 4 
of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,100,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of 
withdrawals made by a Beneficiary of a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the implementation of a Sub-project under Part B.1 of the 
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  5
-
4
-
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out  
the Project through its MoE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, economic, environmental and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b)   
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03.  Without limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (a) 
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
Page  6
-
5
-
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) not later than by the effectiveness of this 
Agreement open a separate project account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association; (ii) thereafter maintain the Project Account during the 
entire Project implementation period, and replenish said Account regularly with funds 
sufficient to ensure the Recipient’s Project co-financing obligations; and (iii) use the 
amount in the Project Account exclusively for financing the Recipient’s contribution to 
Project expenditures. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 6.09 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient, through its MoE, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient, through its MoE, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient, through its 
MoE, shall: 
 
(i)
 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part B.1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient, through 
its MoE, shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as the additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a)  
the PIU has been established by the Recipient and is fully operational, 
with structure, functions and staffing necessary to start implementation of the Project; 
and 
 
(b)  
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted by the Recipient. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Education of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Education of the Kyrgyz Republic 
257 Tynystanova Street 
Bishkek City, 720040 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
245-156NUR KH 
(996 312) 66-24-42 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI)  (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
By  /s/  Bolot Abildaev 
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By  /s/  J. Christopher Lovelace 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
40,000 
100% 
 
(2)  Goods, equipment 
3,540,000 
100%  
 and 
materials 
 
 
 
(3)  Sub-grants 
820,000 
100% of the  
 
under Part B.1 
 
amounts disbursed 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(4)  Consultants’ 
3,150,000 
100% of local 
 
services, including audit 
 
expenditures 
 
90%
of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
(5)  Training 
620,000 
100% 
 
(6)  Incremental operating costs 
   190,000 
100%    
 
(7)  Teacher incentives 
690,000 
100% 
 
(8)  Unallocated 
     1,050,000
TOTAL 10,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient for services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred on account of Project 
related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, 
including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; 
 
(d) 
the “teacher incentives” means the reasonable cost of performance 
incentives to teachers working in schools in Issyk-Kul and Talas oblasts, and incentives 
to new teachers working in rural schools referred to in Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project, 
respectively, to be paid based on criteria, principles and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and 
 
(e) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by TRF, MoE’s assessment unit, education budgeting and strategic planning unit 
and the PIU, on account of the Project implementation such as the costs of 
communication, printing and publications, translation, supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, bank charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses and such other 
reasonable expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association, all based on an 
annual budget to be prepared by the PIU which shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) works and goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and services under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (c) Sub-grants; (d) training;  
(e) incremental operating costs; and (f) teacher incentives, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving learning and 
learning conditions in primary and secondary schools, with priority attention to rural 
areas. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.  
 
Part A
:
Improved Teacher Incentives
1. 
Improving the existing school-based self-appraisal procedures for teachers and 
school principals by development of  model performance management arrangements.  
 
2.  
Development of national guidelines and criteria for performance evaluation, 
including new external verification procedures to support the existing school evaluation 
commissions in carrying out performance evaluation for teachers and school principals. 
 
3.  
Development of a performance incentive scheme for teachers and school 
principals, including a pilot implementation of the scheme through the provision of 
performance incentives to teachers working in schools of Issyk-Kul and Talas oblasts. 
 
4. 
Provision of incentives to new teachers willing to work in rural schools. 
5. 
Technical assistance and training of teachers, school principals, and education 
administrators in implementation of the new performance management system.   
 
Part B
:
School Sub-grants for Improved Learning
1. 
Provision of Sub-grants to schools in Issyk-Kul and Talas for the implementation 
of learning improvement plans (LIPs) through the following Sub-projects: (a) Sub-
projects promoting students’ learning improvement and providing support to 
disadvantaged students; (b) Sub-projects supporting the improvements of teachers’ 
performance; and (c) Sub-projects providing students and/or schools with instructional 
equipment and learning materials and small repairs to schools. 
 
2. 
Technical assistance and training to schools and communities in preparing and 
implementation of the Sub-projects. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Part C
:
Textbooks and Learning Materials
1. 
Improving textbooks provision to schools by: (a) developing of new textbooks 
and teacher manuals; (b) financing reprints of existing textbooks and teacher manuals; (c) 
provision of financing for textbooks and teacher manuals with new titles and new 
content; (d) setting up the TAB responsible for establishing technical specifications and 
evaluation criteria for textbook authorship and publishers, including evaluation criteria 
for bidding of new textbooks and teacher’s guides; (e) training of textbook authors and 
publishers, and TAB management and members to develop new, modern textbooks; and 
(f) providing support in the implementation of a program described in a Letter of 
Textbook Development Policy. 
 
2. 
Improving the textbook rental scheme, including establishment of the TRF as an 
autonomous body with its own managing board representing the MoF, MoE, and other 
relevant ministries and agencies of the Recipient, and the TRF manager, and staff 
responsible for setting the level of rental fees on an annual basis. 
 
3. 
Provision of learning materials such as teachers’ guides, supplementary reading 
materials, library books, maps, globes, mathematical and other scientific instruments, and 
laboratory equipment to all schools of the Recipient based on lists of materials each 
school requires. 
 
Part D
:
Student Assessment 
1. 
Improving school-based and classroom-based formative assessment by 
developing, field testing and disseminating of teacher support materials, sample tasks and 
tests to improve teachers’ own assessment, including workshops.  
 
 
2. 
Technical assistance to the MOE and the Kyrgyz Academy of Education 
specialists in: (a) preparing and field testing of assessment questions and answers to be 
used for students’ national examinations; and (b) reviewing annual student promotion 
exams to bring them into line with agreed achievement standards for each grade level.    
 
 
3. 
Support to the carrying out the periodic sample-based national surveys of student 
achievements, including improving of test items for these sample surveys. 
 
4. 
Provision of financing to support participation of the Recipient in the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Programme for International 
Student Assessment. 
 
5. 
Technical assistance and capacity building to the MOE to: (a) set up an 
assessment unit, including defining its tasks and responsibilities and its institutional 
relationship; (b) recruit and design training programs for local specialists; (c) advise on 
technical and material resource requirements (security, equipment, logistics); and  
Page  15
-
14
-
(d) support the participation of staff in international organizations and conferences, 
including regional activities.  
 
 
Part E
:
Education Budgeting and Strategic Planning
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment and software for 
establishing an education budgeting and strategic planning unit within the MoE. 
 
2. 
Preparing four annual cycles of commissioned strategy papers on priority topics 
on education budgeting and planning, including annual policy workshops to discuss the 
findings and recommendations of the strategy papers. 
 
3. 
Technical assistance, training, workshops, studies and surveys to monitor and 
evaluate the Project outputs and outcomes.     
 
 
Part F:
Project Management Support
Provision the PIU with office furniture, a vehicle, office equipment, software, 
technical assistance and training for its staff and financing of minor office refurbishing, 
operating costs, audit of Project activities, and public information services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Recipient employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines. The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Sub-grants 
under Part B.1 of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for 
such contracts, referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A
:
Project Management
1. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall maintain BoTs during Project execution 
which, in close cooperation with the PIU, shall be responsible for Sub-projects 
preparation, evaluation and implementation supervision, including accounting, 
procurement and reporting issues, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall maintain the PIU during execution of the 
Project, with staffing and resources adequate to enable the PIU to effectively implement 
the Project which shall be responsible for financial management, procurement, 
disbursement, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports in respect of or 
related to the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, by December 31, 2006, establish and thereafter maintain the 
TAB during the execution of the Project with terms and reference satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall, by December 31, 2006, establish and thereafter maintain a 
new textbook rental scheme, including the TRF during the execution of the Project with 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall take all necessary measures to implement the 
Project activities, including Sub-projects in accordance with the EMP. 
 
Part B
:
Reporting and Monitoring
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2007, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through PIU: (a) shall provide to the Association, by 
 
September 15 and March 15 of each year throughout the execution of the Project, a semi-
annual report on the progress of Project implementation, of such scope and such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, including a draft annual Project plan for the 
following year; and (b) shall carry out annual assessment to monitor the impact of the 
Project. 
 
Part C:
Learning Improvement Sub-grants 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or 
waive any provision of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Association. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Recipient, through 
MoE, shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
PIU, in close cooperation with the BoTs of eligible schools, shall select 
Sub-projects for financing from the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with criteria and 
selection procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
 PIU shall submit for the Association’s review proposals for Sub-projects 
which shall have been reviewed and decided upon by BoTs of eligible schools, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request; 
 
(c) 
PIU shall provide financing, on a grant basis, for approved Sub-projects 
pursuant to a standard agreement, in a format and substance acceptable to the Recipient 
and the Association (the Sub-grant Agreement), to be entered into between PIU and a 
Beneficiary, and such Sub-grant Agreement shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i)  
a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the 
cost thereof; 
 
(ii)  
the amount to be provided to a Beneficiary under a Sub-grant 
Agreement and a disbursement schedule;  
 
(iii)  
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project; 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
(iv)  
an amount of co-financing to be provided for the Sub-project by 
the Beneficiary and/or evaluation of in-kind contribution to the 
Sub-project; 
 
(v)  
the obligation of the Beneficiary to procure small works, goods 
and services to be financed under the Sub-grant Agreement in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual and  to comply with the EMP provisions;    
 
(vi)  
the obligation of the Beneficiary to report to PIU on the progress 
of Sub-project implementation and to enable representatives of 
PIU and of the Association, if the Association shall so request, to 
visit the facilities, construction sites or other activities to be 
financed under the Sub-grant Agreement; and 
 
(vii)  
the obligation of the Beneficiary to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Sub-project and 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant made available to the 
Beneficiary under the Sub-grant Agreement and to submit to PIU  
at regular intervals statements with respect to such records and 
accounts. 
 
(d) 
PIU shall submit for the Association’s approval the first two Sub-grant 
Agreements for each category of Sub-projects referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, prior to entering into such agreements with Beneficiaries. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) 
and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  23
-
22
-
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency 
specified in such agreement or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay 
under the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient.” 
 
7. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay 
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient on the 
goods or services to be financed under the Grant, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits 
and grants. To that end, if the Association shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by 
notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Development 
Page  27
-
26
-
Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of 
the Association.” 
 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
