                                                                                                             99809
Improving Rural Schools in the Kyrgyz Republic
Natalya Iosipenko, Public Information Services Assistant in
the World Bank Office in Bishkek, offers this story.
                                                                  Photo Gallery
Imagine living in a village where school buildings are
dilapidated, textbooks are rare, and teachers are underpaid
and demotivated. How would you help your community to
improve the effectiveness and quality of its schools? How
would you keep experienced teachers from quitting and
attract young teachers to remote outposts?

Rural schools across the Kyrgyz Republic face these
challenges. Together with the World Bank, education
authorities attempted to address these problems through a         Related Links
US$15 million project supporting rural education.
                                                                  The World Bank in the Kyrgyz Republic
A targeted, nationwide teacher fellowship program was             Rural Education Project
developed to attract young people to become teachers in
                                                                  Implementation Status Results Report
rural areas. Almost 300 new teachers have answered the
call.                                                             Education SWAp/Sector Support
                                                                  Program
                        “It’s a huge problem to bring young       Ministry of Finance
                        people back to the village,” says
                                                                  Ministry of Education and Science
                        Guljamal Janybaeva, Aral school
                        principal. “In this case, our former
                        students are coming back and working as teachers after getting a university
                        education. Young professionals in rural areas represent hope for the future.”

                        Hundreds of rural schools have given existing teachers on-the-job training to
Guljamal Janybaeva      upgrade what they know about their subject and how they teach it.

“Our teachers gained a lot of useful methodological knowledge,” says Janybaeva. “However, our biggest
achievement and pride is that our students have been among the top winners in national school tests
over the last three years.”  

Improved performance management systems for teachers and principals were developed and piloted in
two regions, along with a new salary scale. As a result, almost 3,000 teachers received financial
incentives based on performance.

“These methods allow us to evaluate teachers’ performance,” says Anara Begalieva, school principal in
Issyk-kul oblast. “They enable each teacher to conduct an effective self-appraisal to pinpoint where their
skills need development. This is a great stimulus for teachers.”

                        New standards for strategic planning were developed and applied in pilot
                        schools. They aim to improve student learning by involving staff, students,
                        parents and local authorities.

                        “The approaches of joint planning at pilot schools have facilitated communities’
                        involvement in school management,” notes Kanat Sadykov, Minister of
                        Education and Science. “Self-appraisals of school performance and joint school
                        improvement planning help improve learning conditions.”
Kanat Sadykov
                        The Education Ministry recently endorsed a nationwide scaling up of these
planning principles.

“Previously, teachers and school administrators had to solve lots of issues related to school
maintenance and manage the educational process at the same time,” says Mira Birimbaeva, Talas City
Education Department Specialist. “Parents and the local community now have a stronger interest in
school life and are more willing to provide support. They help us with some school maintenance so that
teachers can focus on raising their professionalism, applying modern teaching methods, and establishing
better interactions with students.”

                         Through hands-on training, school teams have learned to prioritize tasks,
                         develop budgets and fundraise. They have developed and implemented 576
                         micro-projects to improve school conditions. Modern environments motivate
                         students to learn.

                         Schools bought new materials and refurbished laboratories and classrooms:
                         271 computer classes, 46 resource and 29 multimedia rooms, 13 libraries, 78
                         methodological rooms, 46 workshops and music classrooms. Twenty dining
Mira Birimbaeva          halls and gyms were built.

In Kara Suu secondary school, a new crafts room draws students who want to pursue their artistic
aspirations. In Altymyshbaev school, new music classes are welcomed with excitement by young music
enthusiasts. And in Kaimov school, a newly equipped gym attracts dozens of young sports fans who can
now sign up for new fitness programs.

Girls in Kumushtak school learn to sew clothes, embroider traditional patterns, and do beadwork in their
new crafts room.

“There is no need anymore to send our kids to the city to learn the skills of embroidery and beadwork,”
says Fatima Mairykova from Kumushtak village. “My daughter wants to become a fashion designer, and I
hope her dream will come true.”

Student per capita financing was developed and piloted to better allocate budget resources and raise
the efficiency of the education system overall.

                         “We have drastically improved technical resources in our school,” says Tatyana
                         Shahvorostova , Curriculum Department Head in Zubkov village. “Savings
                         resulting from efficient allocation were spent on additional teacher incentives.
                         Over the last two years, school results have improved by 10 percent. Teachers
                         have realized the importance of training for their professional growth.”

                        School is taught in four languages in the Kyrgyz Republic: Kyrgyz, Tajik, Uzbek,
                        and Russian. And for the first time, textbooks in these languages are available
Tatyana Shahvorostova   to students. Since the beginning of the project, nearly 1.3 million copies of
                        textbooks were purchased and reprinted, which has greatly increased the
country’s textbook stock.
