Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3056 HU
            (Energy Development (Oil and Gas) Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 30, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3056 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  May  30,  1989,  between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and  the National Oil and Gas Trust
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, have requested the Bank  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan  and  to  undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the  estimated  expenditures  required  for  the carrying out
Parts A and B of  the  Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the  Bank,  promptly  to  provide  the  Borrower  or  cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
     Section 2.03. The Guarantor  shall  charge the Borrower a fee
at a rate equal to  ten  percent  (10%)  of the amount of interest
payments to be paid by  the  Borrower  to the Bank pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Execution of Part C of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor  shall  carry  out or cause to be
carried  out  Part  C  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in  Sections  9.06  and  9.07  of the General Conditions
(relating to plans and schedules  and records and reports, respec-
tively) in respect of Part C of the Project.
     Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  take all action required on  its part to ensure that the
studies under Part C (2) of  the Project shall be completed, under
terms of reference satisfactory  to  the  Bank, and copies thereof
furnished to the Bank  by  the respective dates hereinafter speci-
fied:
Page  3
          Studies under Part           Date of furnishing
          of the Project               copy to the Bank
          C (2) (a)                    October 31, 1990
          C (2) (b)                    September 30, 1989
          C (2) (c)                    October 31, 1990;
     (b)  review with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations
of each such study promptly upon its completion; and
     (c)  initiate  the  implementation,   within   a  period  not
exceeding six  months  of  such  review,  of  the  respective plan
developed by the  Guarantor  thereunder, taking into consideration
the Bank's comments thereon.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  maintain or cause to  be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of
the Project  of  the  agencies  and  institutes  of  the Guarantor
responsible for the carrying out thereof; and
     (b)  furnish to the Bank: (i) not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of said accounts for
such year; and (ii) such other information concerning said records
and accounts  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
request.
     Section 4.02. The Guarantor  shall:  (a) ensure the provision
of assistance to the  Borrower  in  the  carrying out of the study
under Part A (2) (f)  of  the  Project  as may be requested by the
Borrower; and (b) review with  the  Bank and the Borrower the con-
clusions and recommendations of said  study promptly upon its com-
pletion.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01.  The  First  Deputy  President  and the General
Manager of the National  Bank  of Hungary are severally designated
as representatives of the  Guarantor  for  the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                BANKO                         227267 SMAFU-H,
                Budapest                      225755 BANKO-H or
                                              227028 BANKO-H
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ G. Czipper
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
