Page  1
 August 13, 1993
Mr. J. Subai
President - Chief Executive Officer
Hungarian Oil and Gas Company Ltd. MOL Rt.
H-1117 Budapest
Oktober huszonharmadika u. 18.
Republic of Hungary
          Re:  Loan No. 3056 HU
               (Energy Development & Conservation Project)
               Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Subai:
     Referring to the Loan Agreement (Energy Development (Oil and
Gas) Project), dated May 30, 1989 between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the National Oil and
Gas Trust (the Borrower), to correspondence relating to the
restructuring of the National Oil and Gas Trust and the letter,
dated January 31, 1992 requesting an amendment of the referenced
loan agreement to reflect such, and to your letter, dated August 6,
1993 requesting the modification of the loan agreement to include
the modernization of liquid fuel distribution facilities in the
financing under the loan agreement, we are pleased to inform you
that the Bank accedes to your request and purposes to amend the
agreement as follows:
     All references in the agreement to the "National Oil and Gas
Trust" are substituted by the "Hungarian Oil and Gas Company Ltd.
MOL Rt.".
     Part B of Schedule 2 to the agreement is amended by deleting
the word "and" at the end of sub-point (b) and adding at the end of
the paragraph the words "; and (d) modernization of liquid fuel
distribution facilities, including product loading, control
instrumentation and invoicing systems at 9 locations."
     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing,
dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   /s/  Kemal Dervis
                                        Director
                                Central Europe Department
CONFIRMED: by HUNGARIAN OIL AND GAS COMPANY LTD. MOL RT.\1a
