CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1232 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Third Railway Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 30, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1976, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank, party of the first part, and Nacional Financiera, S.A.
and Ferrocarriles Nacionales de M4xico, parties of the second
part (hereinafter jointly called the Borrowers) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrowers a loan in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed to enter into
this Guarantee Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrowers, and each of them,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifi-
cally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to Nacionales will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
Nacionales' operations and Investment Plan, including the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
Nacionales or cause Nacionales to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any govern-
mental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creat-
ing or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any con-
stitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other govern-
mental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivisions, or
of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or instru-
mentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision of the
Guarantor and shall include any institution or organization which
is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Guarantor or
by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations of
which are conducted primarily in the interest of or for account of
the Guarantor or any political subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all such action, in-
cluding but not limited to authorizing Nacionales to increase its
rates, fares and other charges, as shall be necessary to permit
Nacionales promptly to fulfill its obligations under Sections 5.05
and 5.06 of the Loan Agreement and to carry out the Plan of Action
described in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, each year, compensate
Nacionales for the losses incurred by Nacionales by reason of
operating uneconomic passenger services and low-density branch
lines, during such year and identify the amount paid to
Nacionales on account of compensation in respect of such ser-
vices and lines.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, during the period covered
by Nacionales' Investment Plan and before undertaking any invest-
ment in new projects for the Railways estimated to cost more than
$10,000,000 equivalent in any one year, afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to review and comment upon the feasibility
studies for such investment.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent and qualified auditors for the purposes
of Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor
Section 4.01. Nacional Financiera, S.A.is designated as re-
presentative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor hereby agrees that all notices
and requests given or made by the Bank to NAFIN shall be deemed
to have been given or made also to the Guarantor.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ G. Romero Kolbeck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


