CZ 14
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
_ .
-lnfoShop
Ihc %V11fil 1Wl.
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/24/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFGHANISTAN                            Project ID: P078284
Project: Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project  Task Team Leader: Terje Wolden
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 4, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 11, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m): 108.00
Managing Unit: SASEI                             Sector: Roads and highways (80%); Aviation (20%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Regional integration (P); Trade facilitation
Status: Lending                                 and market access (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the proposed Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project is to facilitate
the country's economic and social recovery through improved physical access to goods, markets, and
administrative and social services.
The development objective will be achieved by: (i) removing key transport bottlenecks (collapsed
bridges, disintegrated pavements, damaged tunnels, unsafe air traffic operation) that seriously hamper
recovery; (ii) providing equipment and technical assistance related to planning, maintenance and
supervision of works, thereby building capacity in management, implementation and subsequent
maintenance; and (iii) assisting in the establishment of an institutional and policy framework for the
sector for sustainable service delivery in the transport sector.
The removal of key transport bottlenecks will immediately promote regional economic integration and
facilitate trade, delivery of humanitarian aid, and reconstruction efforts in all sectors. Normal traffic
operations on the key road arteries and in the air will be restored, also facilitating movements on the key
import/export links and main corridors. Additionally, the civil works and subsequent maintenance
financed through the Project will provide opportunities for employment through the engagement of the
local population in rehabilitation activities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
Part A: Highways (US$69.9 million)
This part includes two key road sections, the Kabul-Salang-Doshi Road and the Pol-e-Khomri-Kunduz
Road of the Kabul - Kunduz - Shir Khan corridor, which is the main artery between the capital and the
Northern Region, and international link to neighboring Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. In addition to linking



2
ISDS
the capital to the north, rehabilitation of the Pol-e-Khomri - Kunduz section will also ensure a dependable
link between Kunduz and the border town of Shir Khan, as well as the to Mazar-e-Sharif. The Project
roads are part of the Afghan Ring Road System, which draws together all the major regions.
The proposed Project would also finance equipment, training and winter road maintenance in the Salang
area for about two years until more permanent self-financing arrangements have been put in place to
recover costs from road users. USAID is financing an NGO to undertake a maintenance program of
immediate maintenance needs in the tunnel and galleries prior to full-fledged works, as well as the
rehabilitation of the MPW maintenance camps.
Part B: Civil Aviation ($19.30 million)!
This component will finance repairs to the Kabul airport runway including airfield logistics and power
distribution system, and provide communications and air traffic control equipment identified by ICAO as
necessary for the Kabul Airport to function to international standard. The Project will finance TA for
implementation support and training.
Part C: Rural Roads Component ($38.50 million)
This component will finance the rehabilitation of selected secondary and tertiary roads serving rural
populations near the roads being rehabilitated and linking them to the major network. The methodology
for the screening and selecting of the tertiary roads will be carried out through a participatory process,
and will serve as a pilot approach for screening and selecting rural road improvements in the future.
Implementation support will consist of technical assistance for design and supervision and training for
subproject screening, selection and project implementation.
Part D: Institutional. Policy And Other Studies ($0.50 million)
This component will lay the foundation for sustainable management of the transport sector. It will
include a Transport Sector Review (TSR) to develop Institutional and Policy Framework for the Sector,
and pre-feasibility studies for potential future investments. Procurement of consulting services for The
TSR will be financed by the Swedish International Development Agency (Sida), and the study is
underway.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Part A: Hi2hways
Land Resources and Land Use
The Kabul - Salang - Doshi Road passes through three main topgraphical zones: the flat plains to the
immediate north of Kabul; the high mountain areas of the Hindu Kush and Salang Pass; and the low lying
plains to the north of the Salang Pass. Along the first ten km exiting Kabul, there is strong evidence of
building and urban expansion. The flat plain is characterized by irrigated agricultural and some grazing
land. The predominant crop is grapes, with some grape plants being rehabilitated and undergoing
regeneration. Also in evidence are vegetables, melons and some wheat. The irrigation system appears
well organized and gravity fed from mountain streams. A number of culverts bring water from one side
of the road to the other. A major lined canal is located north of Chaharikar. The only industry noticed is
brick making.
The high mountain pass is extremely rocky, with sections largely uninhabited. However, there are a
number of settlements along the Salang River, and terraced agriculture, primarily rice. Villagers have



3
ISDS
access to the road and their fields with make-shift footbridges. There are also makeshift stalls and tea
stands very close to the right of way. There are several areas well off the road that are being used by
refugee families, as well as a UNHCR refugee camp at Malakhan. Also at Malakhan are a number of
makeshift stalls, which may have to be moved to allow for improved road drainage. In a number of areas,
trees are planted on the edge of the right of way to protect the adjacent fields. Noticed was one bee
keeping site.
Between Khenjan and Doshi the road passes along an extensive valley of rice paddies, surrounded by
barren hills. Irrigation canals are alongside the road, and sometimes overflowing onto the road.
The Pol-e-Khomri - Kunduz Road passes through a highly productive agricultural zone, surrounded by
barren, sandy hills. However, these hills appear to be the source of the irrigation water, which enables
the valleys to produce a mixture of rice, melons, vegetables, cotton, fodder crops and wheat. Farmers use
animal traction for plowing, but also share diesel powered mobile threshers, pulled by tractors. North of
Baghlan is what used to be a major cotto-growing perimeter, as noted on the Russian topographic map.
The proposed road would also traverse the municipality of Konduz, which is highly degraded and dusty.
The land use in this area can be considered urban and stable. The northern section beyond Kunduz is
similar to the section coming from the south.
Hydrology & Climate
In the flat plains area, the Project crosses a number of small rivers and streams. Effective longitudinal
drainage is generally not available because of the flat terrain. The flat plains are susceptible to high
winds and dust storms. In the foothills, the road parallels the Pangshar River, and is subject to erosion. In
the high mountain zone, winter brings snowfall and a major issue is danger from snow avalanche and
drainage from melting snow, along steep slopes.
Biological Resources
Aside from irrigated agriculture, the Project area is characterized by sparse vegetation consisting mainly
of grasses and brush. Trees are scarce and concentrated around the settlements, which are well back from
the right of way. There is little wildlife in evidence - small weavers, sparrow and an occasional roller
birds were sited. The Project road is not located in a designated sensitive or specially protected area.
Socio-Economic and Cultural
The road is located in the East Central Region and the Northern Region. It passes through the following
administrative areas. These are:
Region       Province    District        Estimated
Population*
Shakardara       74,400
Kabul
East Central
Mir Bacha Kot  51,100
Kalakan         30,300
Bagram         90,600
Parwan
Chaharikar      145,000
Jabalussaraj    94,400
_ _ _ _ _ Salang    20,600



4
ISDS
Baghlan     Khinjan        22,400
Northern
Doshi           50,100
Pol-e-Khomri    152,300
Konduz      Ali Abad       37,200
Konduz          233,100
Total                                   1,001,500
*Source: AIMS; CSO 1998 Census
The major towns/villages through which the Project roads pass are
Mir Bacha Kot
Kalakan
Chaharikar
Jabalussaraj
Hejan
Khenjan
Doshi
Pol-e-Khomri
Baghlan
Kunduz
About 20 kms on the road from Pol-e-Khomar to Mazar-e-Sharif is the Sukh Kotal (Red Pass), which is
an archeological site of a religious temple founded circa 1300 AD. At Baghlan, the Governor's house is
located on the site of an ancient Buddhist Monastary. At Kunduz, there is the ruined fortress of Murad
Beg.
Clearance of land mines and unexploded ordnance (UXO) operations are in evidence along the road
project, particularly along the Salang Pass.
Rural Roads
The subproject sites have not yet been identified, but will be in the vicinity of the northern corridor road.
Civil Aviation
The Project will repair the runway and supply equipment and water and sanitation facilities to the Kabul
International Airport. This will contribute to the Airport achieving ICAO safety and environmental
standards. An Environmental and Safety Audit was carried out at this site. The major issue raised
concerned the continued existence of mines and unexploded ordnance in certain areas within the airport
and on the perimeter. This could have an effect on the safe installation of runway improvements and
lighting. Other safety and environmental issues which are currently being addressed by the Airport
Authority were:
Unauthorized access to runway and taxiways
Storage of fuel.
Solid waste disposal
Water, sanitation and sewage.
Power supply.
Housing for fire fighting equipment.



5
ISDS
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
The environmental category is justified, since civil works will be limited to improvements of an existing
and well-established highways and roads, where there will be no resettlement or land acquisition as a
result of the Project. Consequently, no Resettlement Action Plan is required.
The important issue of mine and unexploded ordnance will be addressed through a specific strategy for
the procurement of mine clearing services, adapted to the type of work, level of anticipated risk and
capacity of contractors.
An environmental and social screening and assessment framework, developed specifically for the
proposed emergency operations, has been established-for sub-projects not defined at appraisal. Such a
safeguard framework has been agreed as part of the first three IDA grants recently negotiated. The
purpose of such a framework is to assist the project implementing agencies (AACA and the line
ministries) in screening all the sub-projects for their likely social and environmental impacts, identifying
documentation and preparation requirements and prioritizing the investments.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               C Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                D Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 U Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         C: Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 C Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Highways Improvements
Land Resources and Land Use
Unstable mountain slopes, snow avalanche andfalling rock protection. Mountain roads are susceptible
to erosion of upside exposed slope surfaces, and slides onto the road. Protection is needed against snow
avalanches and falling rock. This has been dealt with through covered road sections and retaining walls,
as well as through a permanent maintenance capability.



6
ISDS
Land degradation and erosion due to improper disposal of cut and borrow material. Cut material on
mountain roads can cause damage to agricultural and other lands if not disposed properly. Similarly,
borrow areas can be a source of erosion and stagnant water if not properly rehabilitated.
Temporary land takingfor construction camps. There are eight existing MPW camps along the road.
The contractor will be encouraged to utilize these areas. Temporary land taking for construction camps
will be limited and reversible.
Induced development and land use changes. Improvement to the Project road is expected to facilitate a
number of development activities already clearly underway - urban and housing development on the
outskirts of Kabul and a revival of agricultural activities throughout the fertile valleys through which it
passes. Already several new petrol stations are sprouting along the road. In the city of Kunduz, the right
of way is sufficiently large such that there will be no need for land taking. The road improvements may
attract some roadside stands and stalls, which should be controlled in conjunction with local authorities,
so as not to interfere with the shoulders and pose safety hazards.
Hydrology
Mountain hydrology and erosion. Roads built on mountain slopes accumulate rainwater runoffs, causing
potential erosion problems. Certain sections in the foothills and mountains are subject to severe erosion
from rapid running adjacent rivers and streams.
Plain hydrology and cross drainage. The road has been subject to flooding in low lying areas, which
would require appropriately designed drainage structures, such as pipe or box culverts.
Irrigation channel within the road's right of way. Particularly on the Khenjan - Doshi stretch, adjacent
irrigation canals occasionally overflow onto the road, which may damage the road pavement and poses an
inconvenience to motorized and non-motorized traffic and pedestrians. In these cases, drainage
structures need to be designed in conjunction with local communities.
Erosion along rivers. The road has been subject to severe erosion at certain zones passing along rivers.
Particularly at Malakhan, some river training or adjustment in the alignment may be necessary, which
could affect some small stalls along the road.
Water Quality
Groundwater and surface water pollution during construction of Salang Tunnel and snow galleries.
Increased risk of groundwater and/or surface water pollution due to leakage or spillage from diesel
storage tanks for generators necessary for continuous operations.
Groundwater and surface water pollution during construction and maintenance. Increased risk of
groundwater and/or surface water pollution due to: (i) leakage or spillage from paving materials and
construction machinery ; (ii) sanitation facilities at construction camps.
Spillage and leakagefrom motor vehicles. Routine spillage not considered a major risk to the
groundwater resources, although enforcement of vehicle quality standards will minimize this risk. Major
accidents involving hazardous materials could have negative effects, and may be minimized through
enforcement of safety regulations and signposting of hazardous areas.
Social and Cultural
Ineffective de-mining operations. There is a risk that de-mining operations to be done prior to
construction will not be fully effective, posing a safety risk to the contractor workers and residents.



7
ISDS
Health and safety hazards of wvorkers at the Salang Tunnel and snow galleries. Particular safety risks are
posed by potentially for poor ventilation in the tunnel and traffic diversions during the continuous work
periods.
Health and safety hazards of workers and population during construction period. Other safety risks of
workers and local residents need to be considered, in respect of, among others, the added risk of health
hazards in and around the construction camps due to poor sanitation and increased social interaction.
Local interference with traffic diversions. Past experience with emergency tunnel cleanup has been that
local commanders have hampered traffic diversions in the tunnel. There is therefore a need for prior
agreements on traffic diversions throughout the construction period.
Road safety and travelpatterns through populated areas. For those roads passing through populated
areas, the construction of an embankment for the road could disrupt regular patterns or introduce safety
concerns for activities such as water fetching by women and children. In these cases, local consultations
with women should identify such concerns and design measures, such as marked crossings and speed
reduction measures will be introduced.
Land ownership and land acquisition. Road improvements will occur on existing right-of-way only,
which is generally sufficiently wide. Through populated areas, the road may narrow slightly, so as to
avoid building destruction or taking of agricultural land. Minor land taking and movement of existing
sheds may be necessary at Malakhan to adjust to hydrological requirements. Currently the shops on the
river side are exposed to erosion from the river. At Jabal os Saraj, a number of moveable sheds (on
wheels) that have located on the abandoned approach to the bridge may have to relocate when the bridge
is repaired. The permanent shops will not have to be moved. No land taking is foreseen in the city of
Kunduz, since the existing road width is very wide.
Archeological and historical sites. Field reviews revealed no direct impact of the roads on archeological,
burial or historical sites. However, the Project will institute "chance find" procedures to ensure
protection of such sites if found when opening borrow pits and material sites.
Graveyards and Burials. Field reviews revealed a number of graveyards along the road. These are
referenced in the attached way points. In all these cases, the road appears to have no direct impact on
these sites, as they well outside the right of way. However, care needs to be taken to avoid harm that
could result from drainage or during construction. The contractor will institute chance find procedures to
manage situations when and if unrecorded graveyards and/or burial sites are found during the course of
road works.
Local Employment. Employment benefits are expected from the road improvement works. Mechanisms
to ensure that local populations are the beneficiaries will to be defined as much as possible and realistic,
within the social and ethnic context of each road section.
Air Quality
Additional dust and noise levels during construction. Air and noise pollution expected to be of limited
duration during construction period. During the operational period, paving of the road will provide
positive air quality benefits by significantly reducing the dust levels on and along on the road.
Poor ventilation in the Salang Tunnel. Unacceptably poor ventilation is now a feature of he Tunnel.
Accidents in the tunnel have resulted in the suffocation of people due to lack of ventilation.



8
ISDS
Improvements will therefore include rehabilitation of the ventilation system, while appropriate measures,
such as traffic restrictions and tunnel closures during construction, are needed to protect workers from
the risks of poor ventilation.
Rural road improvements
These improvements will be similarly carried out on current alignments, such that no major effects, land
acquisition or resettlement are expected. However, standard ESMP procedures and codes of practice will
be applied to all such investments, which will ensure response to unforeseen or special circumstances.
Procurement of airport equipment
Repairs of the runway and procurement of airport equipment is aimed at increasing safety. The key issue
will involve the clearance of mines and unexploded ordnance from the areas where equipment will be
installed.
Institutional and Sector Issues
A Transport Sector Review and feasibility studies will identify other environmental issues to be dealt
with on a project or sectoral basis in the future.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The Project is not expected to generate significant cumulative impacts.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The Project is not expected to engender long term negative impacts. On the positive side, the
introduction of institution-building activities should improve the prospects for mainstreaming
environmental mitigation and management.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
The Kabul-Salang-Doshi and Pol-e Khomri Roads is the only main highway connecting Kabul with the
Northem Region. In this corridor there are no alternative alignments due to difficult terrain, that could
provide equivalent access and facilitate thru-traffic. The no-action alternative would entail an accelerated
degradation of this highway to a gravel road and a complete loss of road assets, thus incurring
considerable road user costs.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The MPW will establish a Safeguards Focal Point, within the Planning and Implementation Group
(P&IG), who will be responsible for implementing the ESMP Monitoring Plan.. Through the Safeguard
Focal Point, the P&IG will monitor application of environmental measures for detailed design,
construction and bidding for rehabilitation contracts for the project road. The results of the monitoring
activities will be included as routine elements of reports prepared by the supervising engineer and the
P&IG.
Clearance of mines and unexploded ordnance will be addressed through specific procurement
mechanisms adapted to particular sub-component needs:
Solution I (Salang Tunnel and Adiacent Snow Galleries): Contractor is fully responsible and reimbursed
for the cost of mine and UXO clearance; cost determined on a non-competitive basis.
This solution works well where prior risk is fairly well known and considered to be low, such that the
provisional sum is expected to be close to the final negotiated amount. This is the situation at the Salang



9
ISDS
Tunnel and Snow Gallery areas.
Solution 2 (Highway Rehabilitation - Kabul-Doshi. Pol-e Khomri Roads and future major highway
rehabilitation): Contractor is fully responsible and reimbursed for the cost of mine and UXO clearance;
cost is entered by the contractors in their initial bids.
This solution is most applicable for large contracts, where there is a large and/or still unknown level of
risk with respect to mines and UXO in the Extended Site. Such is the case with the highway
improvements along the Kabul - Doshi and the Pol-e Khomri Roads, as well as other larger scale
highway improvements expected in the future.
Solution 3A (Rural Roads Component): Government, Project entity and/or community contracts for mine
and UXO clearance; contractor maintains insurance for liability and damages.
This solution would be applied in the case of relatively small works, which utilize local contractors. It is
anticipated that this will be the case with most of the rural road subprojects.
Solution 3B (Rural Roads Component: Contractor assumes responsibility for contracting mine and UXO
clearance services; price determined on a non-competitive basis.
This is a preferred solution where contractors have the capability to engage and manage the clearance
services, particularly if the road improvements are bid as a "package" or an extension of the major
highway improvement contracts.
Solution 4 (Airport Eguipment Installation): Government or Airport Authority contracts for mine and
UXO clearance; contractor maintains insurance for liability and damages. This would seem to be the only
solution to ensure that equipment is safely delivered and installed at the airport.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholders:
Residents and townspeople in the immediate vicinity of the Kabul-Salang-Doshi and Pol-e Khomri Road.
Transporters and other road users.
Ministry of Public Works, Planning and Implementation Group.
Local government officials and civic leaders
Contractors and laborers for rehabilitation and maintenance activities.
Consultation:
Public consultations were held at the towns of Khenjan (July 10, 2002), Kunduz (July 11, 2002) and
Jabal os Saraj (July 14, 2002). In Jabal os Saraj, a separate women's consultation was also conducted.
These consultations confirmed that the proposed initial investment is a high priority for men and women.
The communities are keen to begin the Project and stated their willingness to assist the MPW, design
team and contractor in project implementation. Also discussed and agreed were community-based
arrangements for compensation in the event of shifting of moveable stalls. A record of these
consultations is appended to the ESMP.
Consultations will be held as part of the ESMP process when screening and selecting additional rural
roads for improvements.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.



10
ISDS
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



11
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessmnent/Analysis/Management Plan:        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               7/31/2002      7/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           7/31/2002      7/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            8/20/2002      8/20/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Terje Wolden                               02/10/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Robert Fishbein                      02/10/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Aptroved by:                 Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                      02/10/2003
Sector Manager/Director:     Vincent Gouarne                            02/10/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEA~13CH _ _ _ ', FEEDBACK   SITE mm       SHOWCA5E



