Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3735 AF 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 17, 2003 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3735 AF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 2003, between TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC 
STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Borrower, dated March 30, 2002, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“ESMP” means the Borrower’s environmental and social management 
plan, furnished to the Association on June 28, 2002, which provides for certain 
environmental and social impact mitigation measures to be undertaken by the Borrower 
as part of the implementation of the Project, together with related monitoring activities; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“Framework” means the Borrower’s Environmental and Social 
Safeguards Framework, furnished to the Association, which sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key 
policy principles for social and environmental management; (ii) measures to guide the 
screening of activities for significant social and environmental impacts, and to assist in 
the mitigation of such impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles and 
measures are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity building and 
monitoring, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association; 
 
(e) 
“MCAT” means the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism of the 
Borrower; 
 
(f) 
“Mines” means landmines, and this term shall include explosive items 
such as bombs, booby traps, munitions and unexploded ordnance of any kind; 
 
(g) 
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
“Special Account A” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement in respect of Parts A.1, A.2, C, D and E.1 of the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Special Account B” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement in respect of Parts B.1, B.2 and E.2 of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, Special Account A and Special 
Account B; and 
 
(k) 
“Sub-Project” means a secondary or tertiary road rehabilitation project to 
be carried out  under Part C of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 80,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two (2) separate special deposit accounts in its central bank, Special Account A 
and Special Account B, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
 (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. 
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2013, and ending March 1, 2043. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2023, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.
 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Page  7
-
5
-
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, administrative, financial, management and transport practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and with the environmental social and other principles, 
measures, procedures and guidelines set out in the ESMP and the Framework. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Accounts, for each Fiscal Year, audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
Page  8
-
6
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual  
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the  
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors  
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during  
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal  
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to  
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section
 
4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish  to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  9
-
7
-
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five days after the end of the first calendar semester after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF 
AFGHANISTAN
 
By /s/ Ashraf Ghani 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu  
Regional Vice President 
South Asia Region  
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1. 
MPW 
 
(a) Works 
 
(i) under Parts A.1, A.2 
39,600,000 
 
100% 
 
and E.1 of the Project 
 
(ii) for Sub-projects under 
14,000,000 
 
100% 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
 
(b) 
Goods under Parts A.1, 
700,000 
 
100% 
 
A.2, C and E.1 of  
 the 
Project 
 
 
 
 
(c) 
Consultants’ services  
1,200,000 
 
100% 
 
and training under  
 
Parts A.1, A.2 and D  
 
of the Project 
 
(d) Engineering 
services 
2,800,000 
 
100% 
 
under Parts A.1, A.2  
 
 
and C of the Project 
 
2. 
MCAT
 
(a) 
Works under Parts B.1, 
7,000,000 
 
100% 
 
B.2 and E.2 of the Project 
 
 
Page  12
-
10
 - 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(b) 
Goods under Parts B.1, B.2 
 6,000,000 
 
100% 
 
and E.2 of the Project 
 
 
(c) 
Consultant’s services and  
200,000 
 
100% 
 
training under Parts B.1, B.2  
 
of the Project  
 
(d) 
Engineering services under 
500,000 
 
100% 
 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project 
 
(3) Unallocated 
8,000,000 
 
 
TOTAL
 80,000,000 
 
=========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 8,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a)(i), (1) (a)(ii), (1) (b), 
(1) (c), (1) (d), (2) (a), (2) (b), (2) (c) and (2) (d) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 2002. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (ii) (works procured under the 
provisions of paragraph C.5 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(iii) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for 
consulting firms; (iv) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
Page  13
-
11
 - 
equivalent for individual consultants; (v) engineering services; and (vi) training, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the recovery of the Borrower’s 
economy by improving access to goods, markets, and administrative and social services. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Road Rehabilitation
1. 
Rehabilitation of the Kabul-Doshi and the Pol-e-Khomri-Kunduz roads, 
as well as roads and bridges in the northern region of the country, including the provision 
of goods, training and consultants’ services required for the maintenance thereof.  
 
2. 
Rehabilitation of the Salang tunnel, including the tunnel’s approaches, 
and the provision of goods and training required for the maintenance thereof. 
 
Part B
:
Civil Aviation
1. 
Rehabilitation of the runway at Kabul’s international airport, and 
provision of consultants’ services and goods, including, without limitation, 
communication, radio, meteorological, ground-handling and de-icing equipment, and a 
power distribution system, to upgrade the capabilities of said airport. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of works and provision of goods required to construct a 
water and sanitation system in Kabul’s international airport. 
 
Part C
:
Secondary and Tertiary Roads
Carrying out a program to rehabilitate about two hundred fifty (250) kilometers 
of  secondary and tertiary roads adjacent to the roads referred to under Part A of the 
Project, including the provision of goods, training and consultants’ services related 
thereto. 
 
Part D
:
Transport Sector Review and Miscellaneous Studies
Carrying out pre-feasibility and other studies, as well as a review whose 
objective is to develop an institutional and policy framework for the transport sector.  
 
Page  15
-
13
 - 
Part E
:
Mine Clearing
Clearance of Mines, including the carrying out of requisite screenings, surveys 
and quality assurance tests in: 
 
1. 
Areas to be rehabilitated under Parts A.1, A.2 and C of the Project; and 
 
2. 
Areas to be rehabilitated under Part B.1 of the Project, together with 
areas where the construction of the system referred to under Part B.2 of the Project shall 
take place. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
Page  16
-
14
 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Se
ction I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
(c) Notification 
and 
Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  17
-
15
 - 
(d)
 Prequalification
Bidders for contracts for works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be prequalified 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(e) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International  Bidding
Works under Part A.2 of the Project and goods under Part B.1 of the Project shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part C of the Project estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods, including spare parts and equipment, under Parts A.2 and B.1 of the 
Project which must be purchased from the original supplier may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. Force 
Account
Maintenance works under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $700,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate,
 may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account 
in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
16
 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and each contract for works 
estimated to cost more than $300,000 equivalent; and (ii) the first three (3) contracts for 
goo
ds and the first three (3) contracts for works, irrespective of the contract’s value, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
when said contracts shall have been procured under the provisions of paragraphs C.1 or 
C.2 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
In the event that any of the contracts for goods referred to under sub-
paragraph (a) (ii) above shall have been procured under the provisions of paragraphs C.3 
or C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping or 
direct contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  19
-
17
 - 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Training services under Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost $400,000 
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Quality-Based 
Selection
Engineering services under Part C of the Project and services to carry out pre-
feasibility studies under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
18
 - 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
19
 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2, 
C, D and E.1 of the Project in MPW, and Parts B.1, B.2 and E.2 of the Project in MCAT.  
The Borrower shall cause AACA to: (i) carry out the procurement process under 
Parts A.1, A.2, C, D and E.1 of the Project; (ii) assist in consolidating progress reports 
prepared by MPW and MCAT on the implementation of their respective Parts of the 
Project; and (iii) submit the consolidated progress reports to the Association in 
satisfaction of the Borrower’s obligations under paragraphs B (ii) (a) and B (ii) (b) of this 
Schedule. Furthermore, the Borrower shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association pursuant to which the procurement of goods and services under Part B.1 of 
the Project shall be carried out by the International Civil Aviation Organization. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, within each of MPW and MCAT, a team, with 
professional staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association, to assist each of MPW and MCAT in 
carrying out winter maintenance activities under their respective Parts of the Project; 
(b) not later than September 30, 2003, develop and furnish to the Association, for its 
review and comments, adequate plans to maintain the roads to be rehabilitated under 
Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project and shall, following receipt of the Association’s 
comments, finalize said plans and put them into effect taking into account the 
Association’s comments thereon; (c) not later than December 31, 2003, develop and 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a suitable methodology for 
screening and selecting Sub-projects under Part C of the Project and shall, following 
receipt of the Association’s comments, adopt such methodology and put it into effect 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon; and (d) not later than December 
31, 2003, take all actions required on its part, including regulatory action, to upgrade the 
safety standards of air traffic to those levels mandated by the International Civil Aviation 
Organization. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (a) on a quarterly basis, commencing not later than forty-five 
Page  22
-
20
 - 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, a report on the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and (b) on or about March 31, 2004, a report, to constitute the basis 
upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (i) of this Section and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (ii) (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (ii) (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
C. 
Part C of the Project
1. 
In order to achieve the objectives of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall select Sub-projects to be carried out under Part C of the Project. When presenting a 
Sub-project to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with an appraisal of the 
proposed Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, no expenditures 
for works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated from time to time to Part C of the Project unless the Borrower shall 
have furnished to the Association: (i) an environmental and social management plan 
relating to the proposed Sub-project, prepared pursuant to the principles, policies and 
guidelines set out in ESMP and the Framework, together with evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, that the Sub-project shall not involve any involuntary resettlement of 
local population; (ii) a feasibility study concerning the proposed Sub-project, including 
an economic justification, satisfactory in substance to the Association, demonstrating that 
the internal rate of return of the proposed Sub-project equals or exceeds twelve percent 
(12%). 
 
D. 
Part E of the Project
The Borrower shall undertake not to lay new Mines in any part of the Borrower’s 
country so as to adversely affect, or in any way undermine, the implementation of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Page  23
-
21
 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a)(i), (1) (a)(ii), 
(1) (b), (1) (c) and (1) (d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in respect of Parts A.1, A.2, C, D and E.1 of the Project; and 
Categories (2) (a), (2) (b), (2) (c) and (2) (d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts B.1, B.2, C and E.2 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$7,800,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 in 
respect of Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the  
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
Page  24
-
22
 - 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project pertaining to said Special 
Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  25
-
23
 - 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  26
-
24
 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following said 
indicators being subject to modification by agreement of the Borrower and the 
Association: 
 
1. 
The average travel time between the cities of Kabul and Kunduz is reduced by 
fifty percent (50%). 
 
2. 
The ability of goods and services’ providers to supply products in the northern 
provinces of the country, during daytime and at night, is restored by March 31, 2004. 
 
3. 
The ability of international airlines to land in Kabul’s international airport is 
restored by December 31, 2003. 
 
4. 
At least ten (10) rural communities have had their access to markets, social and 
administrative services improved by June 30, 2005.
 
