Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street 
(202) 277-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Washington, DC  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
USA 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
April 7, 2003 
 
His Excellency Dr. Ashraf Ghani 
Minister of Finance 
Kabul
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
Excellency,  
 
Re: Emergency 
Transport Rehabilitation Project
 
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 3735
-
AF)
 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement relating to the Emergency Transport 
Rehabilitation Project (the Project) between Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan (the 
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the "Association"), dated March 17, 
2003 (the "Development C
redit Agreement").  We also refer to your Excellency’s request to 
modify the dates of payment by the Borrower of commitment and service charges, and the dates 
of repayment of the principal amount of the Credit.  Furthermore, we wish to use this opportunity 
to incorporate, into Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, details of the procedures 
for competitive bidding advertised locally which have been agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Association.  Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as 
follows: 
 
1. 
In Section 2.06, the dates “March 1” and “September 1” shall read “February 1” and 
“August 1”, respectively. 
 
2. 
In Section 2.07, the dates “March 1” and “September 1” shall read “February 1” and 
“August 1”, respectively, and the dates “September 1, 2013”, “March 1, 2043” and March 1, 
2023” shall read “August 1, 2013”, “February 1, 2043” and February 1, 2023”, respectively. 
 
3. 
The following language shall be added at the end of paragraph C.2 of Section I of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement: “and the provisions of the Annex to this 
Schedule 3”. 
 
4. 
An Annex, in the form attached to this letter, shall be attached to Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and form an integral part thereof. 
 
5. 
All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement that have not been 
amended hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. 
 
Page  2
H.E. Ashraf Ghani 
April 7, 2003 
 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing, dating and returning to us 
the form of confirmation in the enclosed copy of this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Alastair J. McKechnie
Alastair J. McKechnie  
Country Director 
Afghanistan 
South Asia Region 
 
CONFIRMED: 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By: /s/ 
Ashraf Ghani
His Excellency Dr. Ashraf Ghani
 
Date: April 11, 2003
Page  3
H.E. Ashraf Ghani 
April 7, 2003 
 
 
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for Competitive Bidding Advertised Locally 
 
A. Advertising
1. 
The invitation for bids shall be advertised in a newspaper of local circulation in the areas 
where the civil works are to be provided, and the goods are to be supplied.  In those areas where 
this is not possible, the invitation for bids shall be posted at such place or places as shall be 
appropriate. 
 
2. 
The invitation for bids shall be in local language and in such other language as may be 
deemed appropriate by the Recipient’s department or agency concerned, and shall include the 
information referred to in the model invitation for bids set forth in the Association’s sample 
bidding documents for procurement of small works (in the case of civil works contracts) and for 
procurement of goods (in the case of goods), published by the Association on January 1995 and 
January 2001, respectively. 
 
3. 
With due regard of the nature of the civil works to be provided and the goods to be 
supplied, the time period for bid submission from the date of invitation shall be sufficient to allow 
potential bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit their bids.  It shall be no less than thirty 
(30) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed with the Association. 
B. Eligibility
1. 
The eligibility of bidders and the origin of goods supplied shall be as defined under the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, if they wish to do so. 
 
3. 
Joint ventures between foreign and local firms shall not be a condition for eligibility. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid alone.  Nevertheless, foreign bidders may be required to 
have a local agent/intermediary in the Recipient’s territory. 
 
C. Bidding
1. 
In addition to the invitation for bids, the bidding documents shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
instructions to bidders, including the criteria to be used for bid evaluations; 
 
(b) 
conditions of contract; 
 
(c) technical 
specifications; 
 
(d) 
bid form and price schedules; and 
 
(e) 
performance security (optional for bids below a dollar equivalent sum to be 
agreed with the Association). 
Page  4
H.E. Ashraf Ghani 
April 7, 2003 
 
 
In case of civil works, the bidding documents shall also include a bill of quantities or a 
breakdown of the lump sum price, as the case may be. 
 
2. 
Bids may be expressed in local currency or in such other foreign currency as may be set 
forth in the invitation for bids .  If the currency of payment set forth in the invitation for bids is 
the local currency, the invitations may indicate that there is no obligation on the part of the 
Recipient’s department or agency requesting the bids to convert into foreign currency the 
amounts to be paid. 
 
3. 
Bidding documents shall be prepared in the local language or in such other language as 
may be deemed appropriate by the Recipient’s department or agency concerned. 
 
4. 
Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand at the place set forth for such purposes in the 
invitation for bids. 
 
5. 
Bids shall be opened publicly to allow representatives of the bidders to attend if they so 
desire.  Bids shall not be modified after the opening of bids except to correct arithmetical errors.  
All bids shall be opened at the same time. 
 
6. 
Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose of obtaining lower bids.  The Recipient 
shall consult with the Association prior to rejecting all bids or soliciting new bids.  All bids may 
not be rejected and new bids invited on the same specifications solely for the purposes of 
obtaining lower prices, except in cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates 
by a substantial amount.  In such cases, the Recipient may, as an alternative to rebidding and with 
the prior concurrence of the Association, negotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder to try to 
obtain a satisfactory contract, and, failing a satisfactory response, with the next lowest evaluated 
bidder.  Rejection of all bids may be permissible when bids are not substantially responsive or in 
case of a lack of effective competition. 
 
7. 
In the comparison of bids between local and foreign bidders, no domestic or regional 
preference to local bidders shall apply. Bids shall be compared on the basis of delivered price, 
inclusive of any prevailing duties. 
 
8. 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.  Price negotiation 
with bidders shall not be undertaken before the contract is awarded except as provided in 
paragraph 6 above. 
 
9. 
The award of contract shall be made within the period specified in the bidding 
documents. This period shall be determined in each case (goods or works) depending on the 
complexity of the contract and the approval. 
 
10. 
A bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the Recipient’s department or agency 
requesting the bids setting out a record of all bids submitted, the reasons for disqualification of 
any bids, the criteria, weighing and evaluation of all responsive bids, the recommended award, 
and, if recommended award is to other than the lowest price bidder, the reasons therefore.  The 
concerned Recipient’s department or agency shall furnish to the Association a translation in the 
English language of such bid evaluation report in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 or 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
 
