Report No. PID7897
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Rehabilitation and Completion(+@)
of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage
Project ID                       AZPE8284
Borrower(s)                      GOVT. OF AZERBAIJAN
Implementing Agency              State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2000
Projected Board Date             July 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Agricultural Reform: Agriculture is one of the major contributors to
Azerbaijan's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). During the past few years, the
sector contributed between 20 and 25 percent of GDP and around 35 percent of
employment. Before Independence in 1991, Azerbaijan was a main producer of
cotton, wheat, grapes and vegetables for the Former Soviet Union (FSU)
markets. Real output declined rapidly between 1991 and 1994, when the
production of grains fell by 19 percent; of cotton by 48 percent; of grapes
by 66 percent; and of vegetables by 43 percent. The decline in agricultural
production seems to have leveled out during the past few years.
From 1996 to date, fundamental changes have been introduced, including the
abolition of the state order system for agricultural products, the removal of
most controls on external trade in agricultural products, and the
discontinuation of official pricing of inputs and outputs, as well as the
replacement of state input supply and farm output marketing organizations
with privately owned and managed companies. The ongoing liquidation of the
state and collective farms and the physical distribution of a significant
proportion (to date more than 85 percent) of farm land to individual farm
members is creating a private farm structure, with large numbers of small
family holdings and private group farms.
Despite the progress made with the reform of the agricultural sector, major
issues remain that slow the transition to an efficient agricultural sector.
Issues include: (i) the need to improve the legal and institutional framework
to support a land market, promote the development of rural credit systems,
the use of land as collateral, etc.; (ii) the need for agro-industry
restructuring, caused by over-capacity and lack of working capital; (iii) the
lack of market information; (iv) the lack of agricultural diversification,
with major emphasis on the cultivation of low valued grains; (v) the lack of
access to credit for private farm and agro-industry enterprises; and (vi) the
lack of advisory services and new productivity enhancing technologies.
Government is committed to complete the transition to a privatized market-



based agricultural sector and it is expected that, with the help of donors
and external financiers, most of the above mentioned issues would be
addressed during the next years. An Agricultural Sector Update was prepared
late 1997, which raises many of the issues that affect agricultural reform
and development and provides an outline for a strategy for continuing
agricultural development that should result in continued growth and
realization of the full potential of Azerbaijan's agriculture sector and its
comparative advantage. The IDA financed Farm Privatization Project (FPP;
FY98) and the Agricultural Development and Credit Project (ADCP; FY99) have
activities in the areas of farm information and advisory services, land
registration, and rural credit. The coverage of these two projects includes
the two RIDIP sub-project areas.
Irrigation Sub-sector
Irrigation Sustainability: The country has favorable growing conditions for
a wide variety of crops, the cultivation of which is largely dependent on
irrigation. Almost all agricultural land is under arid or semi-arid
conditions, with average annual rainfall of 200 to 350 mm, more than half of
which falls outside the main growing season. For example, in Khachmaz in the
center of the SAC project area the mean effective rainfall during the
cropping season from April to September is 124 mm (40 percent of the mean
annual total), while the mean reference crop evapotranspiration for the same
period is 708 mm. Consequently irrigation is a key input for reliable crop
production.
The total area equipped for irrigation is about 1.45 million ha, which
represents more than 80 percent of all arable land in the country. Many of
the irrigation systems were developed during the FSU period with little or no
attention to economic costs and viability. Operation and maintenance (O&M)
budgets have been far below required levels, with the current budget
estimated at 20 - 30 percent of what is needed. The main and distribution
irrigation systems and drainage channnels have not been maintained and
consequently the infrastructure facilities have deteriorated. This has
resulted in irregular and inadequate availability of irrigation water at farm
level, which in turn results in yields that are much below the irrigated
yield potentials. Similarly, lack of adequate drainage is suppressing yields
and arable area is shrinking year by year due to growing salinity and water
logging conditions.
Major sub-sector issues affecting sustainability are: (i) deterioration of
irrigation infrastructure, resulting in inefficient water distribution and
application due to deteriorated main, inter-farm and on-farm irrigation
facilities; (ii) high reliance on pumped irrigation (over 500,000 ha), which
in many instances may prove uneconomic if key expenses, such as energy and
pump maintenance, are valued at their economic costs; many pumps are not
maintained properly and more and more become unoperational; (iii) lack of
adequate beneficiary participation, in particular negligible contributions to
the SAIC for water supply services, as well as for the O&M of the irrigation
distribution infrastructure; (iv) distribution systems are not well suited to
the new, smaller farm structures that are emerging from privatization; (v)
farmers lack experience in the management of irrigation systems and remain
largely unorganized; and (vi) increasing areas affected by soil salinity and
water logging, caused by inadequate or poorly performing drainage systems and
inefficient use of water.
-2-



The SAIC has calculated blend irrigation service fees (ISF) for each of the
rayons, varying from Manat 1,600 (US$ 0.40) per 1,000 m3 to Manat 216,000
(US$ 56) per 1,000 m3. The country-wide blend ISF would be Manat 23,800 (US$
5.95) per 1,000 m3, and considering the 7.3 billion m3 of water that is
supplied to the farms annually, the water users would contribute Manat 174
billion (US$ 45.1 million) to the Committee's budget. Realizing the water
users' low ability to pay at the moment, the SAIC has set the current payment
level for ISF at rates varying from 5 to 15 percent of the needed tariff,
which would provide Manat 20.9 billion (US$ 5.4 million). During the first
years of collection, less than 25 percent of this reduced amount was actually
collected.
Long-term Vision for the Sub-sector: The Government has made a start in
developing a long-term vision for the irrigation sub-sector. In particular,
a program for rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure for the period up to 2005 was prepared. It has been shared
with prospective donors and financiers and so far the Islamic Development
Bank (IDB) and the IDA have started working with government on financing part
of the program. Different pieces of legislation to support the sub-sector
have been prepared, including the water code (adopted on December 26, 1997),
law on amelioration and irrigation (adopted on June 5, 1996) and resolution
on establishment of water users associations (WUA) and introduction of ISF
(decree # 150, dated October 26, 1996). There is, however, no overall vision
yet for reform of the sub-sector to establish its technical, financial,
economic, institutional and environmental sustainability.
Institutional Framework: The SAIC is not only responsible for the
development of policies and planning of the irrigation sub-sector, but also
for the management of all irrigation infrastructure, including dams, up to
the boundaries of the former state and collective farms. The Committee
comprises some 160 organizations at all levels, yet it is still very much a
centrally managed organization. The Committee still keeps a work force in
place of reportedly 22,000 people, the majority of whom is engaged in the O&M
of irrigation infrastructure, which is, as indicated above, currently
severely constrained by lack of budget.
The SAIC has gone through initial restructuring under a concept for the
development of amelioration and water facilities for 1996-2010. SAIC has so
far reduced staff by around 5,000 through divestiture and consolidation of
several institutions and departments.
Water users remain largely unorganized and contribute little to O&M. WUAs
have been developed only on a pilot basis under the IDA funded Farm
Privatization Project. No infrastructure outside the former farm boundaries
has been turned over to the users. Institutional arrangements have to be
developed further at both Government agency and farm level to manage the
distribution of water and maintain the irrigation networks both outside and
within the former state and collective farms.
Environmental Degradation: One of the preliminary conclusions of the
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) that was recently prepared, is the
lack of environmental monitoring. This includes monitoring of land and
water.
Major identified environmental issues that relate to the sub-sector are: (i)
-3 -



ineffective water resource management; (ii) increasing areas affected by
water logging and salinization; (iii) pollution of major rivers; and (iv)
soil erosion due to poorly designed on-farm irrigation systems.
The Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Utilization of Nature
requires that an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is prepared for each
investment project. Any EIA would be subject to State Ecological Expertise
review.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed Rehabilitation and Completion of
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project (RIDIP) is to sustain and
posibly increase current agricultural production in the project areas through
improvements in water supply and drainage in the service areas.
This would be achieved: (i) for the Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC) System,
through improvement in irrigation supplies and services in the 85,000 ha
command area; and (ii) for the Mill-Mugan Collector Drain (MMCD) area,
through the reduction in water logging and salinity over 36,500 ha.
The project would carry out least-cost rehabilitation of priority irrigation
components of the Samur-Apsheron Canal System and completion of the final
link in the Mill-Mugan Collector Drain. It would also take the first steps
towards institutional reform of the State Amelioration and Irrigation
Committee (SAIC) and the District Irrigation Exploitation Units (IEU) within
the command area of the SAC.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The principal contributions of IDA support would be in the introduction of
international best practices in design and implementation of irrigation
projects, as well as appropriate institutional arrangements for project
implementation and future management, operation and maintenance. In
particular, the IDA would: (i) introduce reforms in the SAC system management
structure leading to more efficient and equitable distribution of irrigation
water and better accounting procedures; (ii) support development of a
strategy for the sub-sector to permit development to focus on schemes with a
long-term economic future; (iii) incorporate into the project planning and
design appropriate economic, financial, social and environmental criteria;
(iv) introduce stakeholder participation; (v) introduce high technical
standards and procedures in design and construction; (vi) introduce
appropriate procurement procedures, aiming at competitive bids; and (vii)
strengthen SAIC's implementation capacity.
4. Description
The Project would constitute three components: (i) Rehabilitation and
Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure; (ii) Institutional
Strengthening; and (iii) Project Implementation Support.
Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage
Infrastructure
The project would support rehabilitation of the critical main infrastructure
- 4 -



of the Samur-Apsheron Canal System, which is seriously deteriorated and whose
vulnerability to failure threatens the continuity of both the irrigation
supplies to 85,000 ha and the water supply to the population of the Baku-
Apsheron Peninsula. The project would: (a) rehabilitate the Samur headworks,
where past flood damage and lack of regular maintenance jeopardize the
integrity of the barrage, and replace all seriously deteriorated gates and
lifting gear; (b) repair the concrete lining of the first 50 km of the main
canal, with the associated structures, where deterioration arising from
neglected maintenance has led to an unacceptable loss of water; (c)
rehabilitation of sedimentation works, based on a comprehensive study and
elaboration of a long-term environmentally acceptable solution; (d)
rehabilitate the inter-farm canals leading from the first 50 km of the main
canal and servicing 65,000 ha; and (e) support design and construction
supervision services.
The Project would support the completion of the last, critical link in the
Mill-Mugan Collector Drain System as follows: (a) complete the remaining 32
km of the main collector drain; (b) provide necessary bridges and aqueducts
across it; (c) complete the siphon underpass for this drain beneath the Araz
river; (d) re-align and rehabilitate inter-farm drains in 36,500 ha; and (e)
design and supervision services.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening
The project would support institutional development to improve the quality
and sustainability of irrigation management. There would be four sub-
components: (a) institutional support for SAC management, through the
provision of technical assistance (10.5 person month (pm) international and
25 pm national staff) to assist in developing programs to improve the canal
management through coordination between the SAC exploitation unit, the
district irrigation exploitation units and water users, and in establishing
solid accounting and pricing principles to establish transparency and
accountability; (b) technical assistance (7.5 pm international and 10 pm
national staff) for development of a Sub-sector Review, leading to an
irrigation sub-sector strategy; (c) training and study tours, covering a wide
range of topics such as project administration, communication and basic
business skills for Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff, and modern
designs and institutions for irrigation and drainage systems for PIU and
selected SAIC staff; and (d) preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study
to review the technical, environmental, social and economic viability of the
expansion in capacity of the Samur-Apsheron Canal, a major issue bearing on
long-term water resource development and expenditure in Azerbaijan.
Component 3: Project Implementation Support
This component would comprise the following four sub-components: (a) support
for the Project Implementation Unit, covering the incremental staff salaries
and expenses of the PIU, equipment and vehicles; (b) a technical assistance
(TA) team of international specialists to advise and train the PIU during the
first two years of project implementation (60.5 pm) and comprising a
Technical Advisor and short-term specialists in Construction Supervision,
Engineering Design, Procurement and Financial Management; (c) the expenses of
annual monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and environmental monitoring surveys;
and (d) the annual audit of the project accounts.
- 5 -



A. Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
A.1. Samur Apsheron Canal
A.2. Mill-Mugan Collector Drain
B. Institutional Strengthening
B.1. SAC Management
B.2. Irrigation Sub-sector Review
B.3. Training and Study Tours
B.4. SAC Expansion Feasibility
Study
C. Project Implementation Support
C.1. PIU
C.2. Technical Assistance
C.3. M&E and Environmental
Monitoring
C.4. Audit Services
D. Refinancing PPF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                                4.1
IBRD
IDA                                                       42
Total Project Cost                                        46.1
6. Implementation
Project duration and location
Project implementation is anticipated to take five years, from November 2000
to October 2005, with the Credit Closing Date being April 30th, 2006. The
project's physical works are confined to the service areas of the Samur-
Apsheron Canal System and the Mill-Mugan Drainage Area. The institutional
reforms introduced would be of benefit to the whole sub-sector when
replicated in other schemes.
Executing Agency and Implementation Arrangements
The State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee would have overall
responsibility for implementation of the project. Responsibility for day-to-
day management would be delegated to a Project Implementation Unit,
established within the SAIC and reporting to the SAIC Chairman.     The PIU
would have direct responsibility for all implementation tasks, including
preparation of programs, monitoring and evaluation reporting, procurement,
accountancy, disbursement and management of the Special Accounts. PIU staff
would include, in addition to the Project Director, engineers for supervision
and design, procurement and financial control staff and an M&E specialist.
The PIU would be supported by a technical assistance team providing
specialist assistance on those aspects of project implementation and
management in which the PIU staff are not experienced. As such a major
responsibility of the TA team would be to develop institutional capacity to
implement investment projects. The TA team would include a long-term
Technical Advisor and a mix of short-term consultants, including Construction
Supervisor, Design Engineer, Procurement Specialist, Financial Management
Specialist, and M&E Specialist.
-6-



Project oversight
An inter-ministerial steering committee would be established to review
progress with and provide guidance to project implementation, resolve
problems of inter-agency coordination, and review and approve the annual
workplan. The Committee would be composed of the Deputy Prime Minister in
charge of the water sector (chairman), the Chairman of the SAIC, Deputy
Minister of the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Chairman of the State
Committee on Ecology, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Chairman of the Apsheron Water Supply Company, District Administration Heads
and the PIU Director (Secretary). The Steering Committee would meet twice
annually, or more frequently when required.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Arrangements for Audit
General: The PIU will be allocated full responsibility for financial
management of the project. The financial management arrangements that have
been developed during the implementation of the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) and the Japanese PHRD Grant do not meet the minimum requirements for
the proposed project. The financial management arrangements of the PIU have
to be strengthened prior to Credit Effectiveness and it is a condition of
effectiveness that the financial management arrangements of the project are
satisfactory to the Association. A time-bound borrower-agreed action plan to
strengthen the project's financial management arrangements is included within
Annex 6.
Staffing and duties: The PIU has already appointed one Accountant, which
should be sufficient as the project and its financing arrangements are
simple. Under the Project Director the staff would be responsible for
orderly, timely and efficient financial accounting in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS). In particular, staff would: (i)
ensure accountability of project funds; (ii) maintain records of the sources
of funds, and the relevant accounts; (iii) maintain internal controls to
ensure the financial records are reliable, complete and provided on time;
(iv) record assets; (v) report on the use of funds; (vi) facilitate
verification by independent auditors; and (vii) provide information as
required to Government and to IDA.
Project Management Reports and Disbursement: The format of the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) for the project would be devised before
negotiations and will be enclosed as an annex to the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). The PIU would produce a complete set of PMRs for every calendar
quarter throughout the life of the project. The project would initially
disburse under the Association's traditional disbursement procedures,
including the Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of
moving to the PMR-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the
Borrower and the Association. The Borrower and Association would initially
consider such a move on December 31, 2001, once the PIU has gained sufficient
experience in producing the PMRs and these have been judged to be reliable,
particularly in respect of their forecasting information.
Audit Arrangements: The PIU will contract a qualified independent auditor to
conduct an annual audit of the project accounts in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, following terms of reference acceptable
to IDA. The independent audit report should be presented to the Association
-7 -



within six months of the end of the Azerbaijan fiscal year, that is by June
30th.
Annual Budget: Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that the PIU
would prepare an annual budget for project implementation by September 30
each year for submission to the Ministry of Finance and the Association.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PIU would appoint one staff member responsible for M&E, and for
management of the environmental monitoring. The PIU would, using expertise
of the technical assistance team, prepare a program of annual monitoring
acceptable to IDA within six months of Credit Effectiveness. This program
would be designed to determine the impact of the project, and would monitor
at least the indices set out in the logframe analysis in Annex 1. The PIU's
M&E staff member would also monitor project inputs and outputs to be
presented in the project Quarterly Reports.
Reporting
Quarterly Reports: The PIU would be responsible for preparation, and
submission to IDA, of Quarterly Reports. The format for the Quarterly
Reports will be discussed during the Appraisal Mission, and will be attached
as an Annex to the Project Implementation Plan. The reports would include
progress information on: procurement, construction, technical assistance,
institutional development (completion of studies, training and study tours),
disbursement, cost estimates and difficulties encountered.
Annual Workplan: The PIU would be responsible for the preparation of an
Annual Workplan by September 30 each year for submission to the Government
and IDA.
Annual Report: The PIU would also be responsible for preparation of an
Annual Report including the final agreed Workplan and agreed Budget for the
following year, for submission to IDA and the Government within 30 days of
the end of the Azerbaijan fiscal year.
Other reports: The Government would prepare, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, on or about March 31, 2003, a Mid-term Report of the
Project, setting out progress to date, the results of the M&E surveys and
proposals for project completion and achievement of its objectives. The
report would be reviewed with the IDA during a mid-term review mission by
June 30, 2003. Also the Government would prepare an Implementation
Completion Report for submittal to IDA within six months of project
completion.
7. Sustainability
Adequate and regular maintenance, as well as effective operation of the
rehabilitated or completed irrigation and drainage infrastructure would be
critical for the sustainability of project benefits. This in turn is
dependent on a range of linked factors: the commitment, skill and training of
O&M staff; adequacy of their budget and equipment; cost recovery mechanisms;
institutional arrangements; and ultimately the farmers' payment capacity
linked to the demand for agricultural products. The proposed project, with
- 8 -



the follow-on second irrigation project, would address all issues except the
last. In the past the budgetary support for O&M has been insufficient, and
the recently introduced irrigation service charge remains negligible. The
institutional reforms necessary before full cost recovery are achieved will
take time. Therefore in the interim Government will have to provide funds
for O&M.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from ongoing project implementation in Azerbaijan and other FSU
countries suggests that: (i) project scope and design should be simple in
view of the country's limited implementation and coordination capacity; (ii)
a project should have few components and be focused on one or few major
activities; (iii) rigorous economic and environmental criteria should be
applied in project planning and design; (iv) competent and efficient local
management staff is necessary and to be recruited before project
effectiveness for ensuring the viability and sustainability of the project;
(v) there should be appropriate technical assistance, which if not recruited
in time, or not at all because of Government's reluctance to borrow for
foreign consulting services, can jeopardize effective implementation; (vi)
there should be major emphasis on procurement and construction quality
control; and (vii) projects to be undertaken in rapidly changing
circumstances and with limited reliable information should be designed to be
suitably flexible at implementation.
OED's 1994 review of World Bank Experience in irrigation and other Bank
reports on the irrigation portfolio emphasize: (i) irrigation projects with
large command areas should be given preference; (ii) the need for adequate
provision of O&M; (iii) success with O&M is more likely when irrigation
agencies are autonomous; (iv) whether public or private entities provide O&M,
budget contributions from the irrigators should remain within the area of
collection; and (v) effective demand based services are an incentive to
payment of water charges.
Experience during project preparation indicates that whilst Azeri engineers
demonstrate good basic design skills, they lack in their training and
experience any objective assessment of alternatives and economic
considerations, so that designs follow long established "norms" without
development of modern approaches and technologies. The project components
should therefore include support for some input by international design and
planning engineers.
The ongoing construction of the MMCD, supported by the Islamic Development
Bank, demonstrates that the construction industry has retained its ability to
undertake large contracts, and has to some degree restructured itself, and is
able to participate in competitive tenders, although a weakness remains in
the distinction between the responsibilities and roles of contractor and
supervisor. The project components should therefore include support for the
PIU, particularly in construction supervision.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The recently completed National Environmental Action
Plan identified the following as environmental issues related to the
-9-



irrigation sub-sector: (i) ineffective water resources management; (ii)
increasing areas affected by waterlogging and soil salinization, caused by
inefficient irrigation water management and uncompleted drainage systems; and
(iii) pollution of major rivers. The project would have a positive impact on
these problems. Improvements in the irrigation and drainage infrastructure
would allow a more efficient use of water and better control of the
groundwater table and drainage water. The completion of the collector drain
would divert saline drainage water away from the Kura river. Improvements in
the institutional capacity to provide adequate and timely operation and
maintenance would improve the water management within the command areas.
Soil erosion due to poorly designed farm irrigation systems has also been
identified in the NEAP as a major environmental issue. The project would not
directly address this issue, which would instead be done by the follow-on
Irrigation II project. The current use of fertilizers and agro-chemicals is
very low, and it is likely that the use will increase in future, when the
agricultural sector returns to profitable levels. This is likely to result in
increase in water pollution and contamination, but not to past levels due to
the fact that these inputs will not in future be subsidized as in the past.
Also, introduction of advisory services under the proposed Agricultural
Development and Credit Project should lead to the adoption of improved and
environmentally sound technologies, including integrated pest management
techniques.
The environmental issues specifically related to the two sub-projects are as
follows:
The SAC sub-project, comprising rehabilitation of the existing irrigation
system and improvements in irrigation management, would address the first of
the above issues. Whilst there are three sensitive areas near or in the SAC
service area, the proposed works would have no significant impact. Only the
Qusar State Protected Area of 15,000 ha is intersected by the SAC canal, and
here rehabilitation works would have no significant impact on an area already
affected by both the existing canal and the presence of the main highway to
Dagistan and Russia which runs adjacent to the canal. The other sensitive
sites, the Yalama Liana Oak Forest of 20,000 ha and the Deveci Lagoon, a
3,500 ha shallow lake in a 7,500 ha reserve close to the coast, are far from
the SAC canal, and would be unaffected by the proposed works.
No mitigation is necessary, but the project would monitor the hydrological
regime of Deveci Lagoon as this would be within the area of the proposed
Irrigation II project.
The MMCD Sub-Project, comprising completion of a missing link in a major
drainage system, would improve drainage conditions and address the second and
third NEAP issues mentioned above. There is one sensitive and protected area
affected by the sub-project, Sarisu Lake, which is a very shallow water body
and reed swamp of around 6,500 ha located in the immediate project area,
between the MMCD and the Kura river. Although only a restricted area, the
Sarisu Lake is nevertheless important for migratory and resident birds.
Sarisu Lake would be affected by the proposed project, with three impacts:
(a) the MMCD would cut across and reduce the natural catchment area of the
Lake; (b) the drainage water from an irrigated area of about 10,000 ha, which
is currently pumped into the Lake, would in future discharge by gravity into
the new main collector; and (c) the new collector would marginally lower
- 10 -



groundwater levels along its route and increase seepage losses from the Lake.
The consequence for Sarisu Lake would be a reduction of in-flowing water, and
a consequent risk of damage. A second sensitive site, the Ag-Gol Lake, a
9,173 ha protected area containing a shallow lake and reed swamp, was
designated a RAMSAR site in 1976 for the protection of resident and migratory
birds. Although it is hydraulically linked to Sarisu Lake, which receives
overflow from Ag-Gol, it is located about 20 km upstream of the MMCD
alignment, and is unaffected by the project works.
An additional impact of the MMCD would be the switching of about 25 m3/s
drainage water from the left bank outfall into the Caspian Sea to the more
southern right bank outfall, about 50 km to the south. This is not
considered to be a significant factor, as the southern outfall already exists
and has been discharging for a considerable time.
Monitoring is proposed of the hydrological regime, water quality, plant and
wildlife in both Sarisu and Ag-Gol Lakes (Ag-Gol is included because of the
hydraulic connection). Also the outfall into the Caspian Sea would be
monitored. The monitoring would precede completion of the MMCD by three
years. If the results, and calculation of the water balance, indicate that
the MMCD will affect Sarisu Lake, the project would provide an alternative
water source in mitigation; possibly this will be a fresh water connection
through Ag-Gol Lake, improving the condition of both. In addition the
project would rehabilitate the Ag-Gol outfall regulator.
Possible environmental damage caused by contractors during construction would
be avoided through proper clauses in the tender documents and monitoring
during implementation. This relates, inter alia, to the contractors camps,
workshops and their surroundings, sanitation, and disposal of excavated earth
and other materials, which would be supervised by the district level offices
of the Azerbaijan State Committee on Ecology (ASCE).
International Waterways. Government has notified Russia and agreement has
been reached among the parties regarding the rehabilitation of the SAC
headworks. Government was of the opinion that the SAC canal rehabilitation
and completion of the MMCD are exempt from the notification requirements of
OP 7.50. This was accepted by the Association.
Dam Safety. Mingechevir and Shemkir are two major dams located on the Kura
River, located approximately 200 kilometers upstream of the MMCD project
area. Due to higher level and distance from these dams there is no
extraordinary risk to the project facilities and the project area in case of
failure of any of these dams, and the project would remain functional.
During preparation of the IDA funded Urgent Environment Improvement Project
in 1998, a dam safety assessment was carried out by the Association, which
concluded that the two dams are in reasonably good condition. The following
requirements were at that time considered sufficient for compliance with the
Dam Safety Policy: (a) resume independent safety inspections; (b) include
operational tests of all gates in the inspection programs; and (c) provide
copies of such inspections to IDA. A safety inspection of Shemkir dam was
made in November 1999 by a team of Azeri experts, and the dam was found to be
in satisfactory condition. A similar inspection for Mingechevir is planned
for 2000.
11. Contact Points:
- 11-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Joop Stoutjesdijk
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3754
Fax:        (202) 614-0583
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 4, 2000.
- 12 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 13 -



