                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000617




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-33900; IDA-33901)




                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.2 MILLION
                        (US$47 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                    FOR A

   REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION OF IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
                          INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                               December 27, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective September 5, 2007)

                     Currency Unit = New Azerbaijan Manat (AZN)
                                AZN 1.00      =    US$1.1733
                                 US$1.00      =    AZN 0.8523

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 to December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIOJSC Amelioration and Irrigation Open Joint Stock Company
Azersu Water Supply Company
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
FSU    Former Soviet Union
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GIS    Geographical Information System
GOA    Government of Azerbaijan
ha     hectare
IDA    International Development Association
I&D    Irrigation and Drainage
IsDB   Islamic Development Bank
IDSMIP Irrigation Distribution System and Management Improvement Project
ISF    Irrigation Service Fee
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MCM    million cubic meter
MMMC Main Mill-Mugan Collector
MMKC   Main Mil-Karabakh Collector
NPV    Net Present Value
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
PDO    Project Development Objective
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
ppm    part per million
raion  district
RIDIP  Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
SAC    Samur-Apsheron Canal
SAIC   State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee
TA     Technical Assistance
WUA    Water Users Association


               Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director: Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
              Sector Manager: Juergen Voegele
        Project Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk




                                              ii

                                           AZERBAIJAN
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Environmental Monitoring............................................................................ 38
 Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 44
 Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 54
 Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 56
 Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
 Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 59
 Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 69
 Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 70
 MAP




                                                      iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Rehabilitation &
                                                                    Completion of
Country:                Azerbaijan            Project Name:
                                                                    Irrigation & Drainage
                                                                    Infrastructure Project
Project ID:             P008284               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-33900,IDA-33901
ICR Date:               12/27/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    AZERBAIJAN
Original Total
                        XDR 31.7M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 33.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
State Amelioration and Irrigation Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/17/1999    Effectiveness:       01/11/2001         01/11/2001
Appraisal:             02/28/2000    Restructuring(s):                       02/28/2006
Approval:              06/22/2000    Mid-term Review:                        07/31/2003
                                     Closing:             05/31/2006         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               12                12
Irrigation and drainage                                         88                88


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other urban development                                        Primary         Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary         Primary
Water resource management                                      Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         D-M Dowsett-Coirolo               Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Juergen Voegele                   Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:      Joop Stoutjesdijk                 Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Team Leader:          Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Morelli
                          Ian McAllister Anderson



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives are to:

  (a) prevent the decline in supplying water to Baku City;
  (b) eliminate further deterioration of the supply of irrigation water to approximately
86,000 hectares (ha) along the Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC); and



                                              ii

  (c) improve drainage and reduce water logging and salinity directly on approximately
36,500 ha along Main Mill-Mugan Collector (MMMC).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project received additional financing (approved February 28, 2006) to finance a cost
overrun due to higher costs for the rehabilitation and completion of the irrigation and
drainage infrastructure works under the original project.           The cost overrun mainly
occurred due to: (i) rapid increase during project implementation in the price of
construction materials, in particular steel and cement, and fuel; and (ii) greater than
anticipated volume of rehabilitation work for one component of the project.                   The
additional financing was required to fund all the originally planned activities in full,
specifically the rehabilitation and enlargement of the Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC) main
supply system from km 27 to 50.The Additional Financing was mainly for works, but
there was a small allocation for consulting services. The original project development
objectives and outcomes remained unchanged.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                                documents)        Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Maintain annual amount of water supplied to Baku Water Supply Company in
                line with average demand.
                                                                             Supply of an
                                                                             average 257 million
                                            Annual amount of                 m3 per year
                                            water supplied to                maintained between

Value                                       Baku Water                       2001 and 2006,

quantitative or About 290 million m3 per Supply Company                      with a range from

Qualitative)    year supplied.              in line with                     243 to 314 million
                                            average demand of                m3. The canal
                                            290 million m3 per               system therefore is
                                            year.                            able to deliver
                                                                             required volumes of
                                                                             water.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2007                       06/01/2007
Comments        The canal system was able to deliver to AZERSU all required volumes of water
(incl. %        as requested, which is less than originally envisaged due to decrease in losses
achievement)    within the city's distribution system.
                Adequate supply of irrigation water to farms within the project area of the
Indicator 2 :   Samur-Apsheron Canal system, in line with the crop water requirements,
                resulting in yield increases.
                Very few farmers receive Reliability of                      Water supply
Value           adequate water supply       water supply from                delivered for
quantitative or and yields are depressed. SAC in 86,000 ha                   irrigation in 2006 -
Qualitative)    Water supply delivered in will improve. At                   336 million m3
                Khachmaz Raion is 254       least                            (+33%). 50% of



                                                 iii

               million m3 and irrigation 47,600 ha irrigated                   farmers receiving
               area is 30,300 ha. Yields: in Khachmaz                          more than 75% of
               fodder 3.8 t/ha; apple 3.5 Raion in 2010.                       required water. A
               t/ha; vegetables 12 t/ha. Crop production                       total of 50,200 ha
                                           and yields will                     irrigated in
                                           increase by 25%.                    Khachmaz Raion in
                                                                               2006 (+ 65%).
                                                                               Yields 29 to 66%
                                                                               higher.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2007                         06/01/2007

Comments        Reliability of flow to areas receiving irrigation water increased. IDSMIP

(incl. %        addresses on-farm works to improve water use efficiency. Average yields of

achievement)    crops increased: fodder 4.9 t/ha (29%); apples 6.3 t/ha (66%), vegetables 16.3
                t/ha (36%).

Indicator 3 :   Groundwater table at sufficient depth to allow good crop cultivation in Mill-
                Mugan project area (36,500 ha).
                                            Groundwater table                  Groundwater table
                                            below two meter                    is generally below 2

                Groundwater table within    in most of the                     meters within 5 km

                one meter of the surface    project area. Area                 from the drainage
                area in most of the project irrigated                          system, which

Value           area during part of the     maintained at                      permits unrestricted

quantitative or cropping season. Yields     36,500 ha.                         growth in most of

Qualitative)    suppressed at 2.1 t/ha for  Expected yields                    the irrigation and

                cereals, 1.5 t/ha for       four years after                   grazing areas.

                cotton, and 4.2 t/ha for    completion of                      Yields increased #

                fodder.                     works 3 t/ha for                   cereals 2.3 t/ha
                                            cereal, 2.5 t/ha for               (+10%), cotton 1.7
                                            cotton, and 15 t/ha                t/ha (+13%), fodder
                                            for vegetables.                    5.3 t/ha (+26%).
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2007                         06/01/2007
Comments        The new drainage system was completed in 2006; water table is expected to
(incl. %        continue to lower. Area benefited is around 40,000 ha (+10%). Yield levels are
achievement)    expected to increase during the next years.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised        Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values      Target Years
                Farmers changing cropping pattern to higher value commercial crops in areas
Indicator 1 :   that have benefited from irrigation rehabilitation and/or improved structures
                (SAC area) and from new drainage facilities (MMMC).
                Cereals and fruits were     Farmers would                      Area under cereals
Value           major crops growing on      switch to higher-                  (SAC) reduced to
(quantitative   80% and 7% of irrigated value crops as                         49%; irrigated
or Qualitative) land in the Samur-          water becomes                      fodder/apple crops
                Apsheron area.              more reliable.                     increased coverage



                                                 iv

                                                                             to 19% and 17% of
                                                                             irrigated area
                                                                             (2006 survey final).
                                                                             Area under fodder,
                                                                             cotton, and
                                                                             vegetables in
                                                                             MMMC increased
                                                                             to 67%; fallow area
                                                                             reduced from 26%
                                                                             to 7%.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  06/30/2007                         06/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %       There is a clear increase in area under higher-value crops in both project areas.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                 DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     10/02/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     01/30/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.27
  4     04/26/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.44
  5     08/21/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.96
  6     01/17/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       5.54
  7     05/30/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       7.51
  8     10/31/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       8.68
  9     01/21/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.08
  10    06/27/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      11.14
  11    09/15/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      11.40
  12    02/03/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      13.42
  13    08/18/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      17.64
  14    11/09/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      19.25
  15    04/15/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      23.38
  16    09/18/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      27.13
  17    11/22/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      29.72
  18    03/27/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      33.52
  19    10/03/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      38.49
  20    01/09/2007           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 40.82
  21    06/27/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      45.77



H. Restructuring (if any)




                                                v

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)    Approved                Restructuring
             PDO Change                               Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
  02/28/2006              S      S         32.41




I. Disbursement Profile




                                     vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Agriculture has consistently been one of the major contributors to Azerbaijan's Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) with a 20 to 25 percent contribution during the past decade, while the
sector provides around 35 percent of employment. Before Independence in 1991, Azerbaijan
was a main producer of cotton, wheat, grapes, and vegetables for the Former Soviet Union (FSU)
markets. Real output declined rapidly between 1991 and 1995. From 1996, fundamental
changes were introduced, including the abolition of the state order system for agricultural
products, the removal of most control on external trade in agricultural products, the
discontinuation of official pricing of inputs and outputs, and the replacement of state input
supply and farm output marketing agencies with privately owned and managed companies. The
liquidation of state and collective farms and the distribution of farm land to individuals created a
private farm structure with a large number of small family holdings and private group farms.

1.1.2 There were many problems that made the transition to an efficient agricultural sector
difficult, including: (i) the need to improve the legal and institutional framework to support a
land market, promote the development of rural credit systems, and to use land as collateral;
(ii) the need for agro-industry restructuring; (iii) lack of market information; (iv) lack of
diversification, with extensive cultivation of low-valued grains; (v) lack of access to credit for
private farms and agro-industries; (vi) lack of advisory services and new productivity enhancing
technologies; and (vii) deteriorating irrigation infrastructure. The Government of Azerbaijan
(GOA) was committed to address these problems and complete the transition to a privatized,
market-based sector with the help of donors and external financiers. IDA has been a major
partner to assist the government, starting with the Farm Privatization Project (FY97) and the
Agricultural Development and Credit Project (FY99) that had activities in the areas of farm
information and advisory services, land registration, and rural credit. Government also requested
IDA assistance to improve the situation in the irrigation sector.

1.1.3 The country has favorable growing conditions for a wide variety of crops, largely
dependent on irrigation considering the average annual rainfall of 200 to 350 mm, most of which
falls outside the main growing season from April to September. The only agriculture possible
without irrigation is low intensity livestock production on natural pasture, which would not meet
the country's food needs, much less the employment and income requirement of its rural
population. Consequently irrigation is a key input for reliable crop production.

1.1.4 At Independence, the total area equipped for irrigation was 1.45 million ha, about 80
percent of all arable land in the country. Irrigation systems were developed during the FSU
period with little or no attention to economic costs and viability. The State Amelioration and
Irrigation Committee (SAIC)1 was responsible for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the

1 SAIC had several name changes and reorganizations during the period of project implementation. Since early
  2006, SAIC was renamed Amelioration and Irrigation Open Joint Stock Company (AIOJSC), which did, however,
  not impact the agency's mandate and activities.

irrigation and drainage (I&D) infrastructure outside the boundaries of the former state and
collective farms. During the first years after Independence, SAIC's budget was only about 30
percent of what was needed. The main and distribution irrigation systems and drainage channels
could not be maintained well and infrastructure facilities were deteriorating. This resulted in
irregular and inadequate availability of irrigation water at farm level, which in turn resulted in
yields that were much below the irrigated yield potential. Similarly, lack of adequate drainage
was suppressing yields and arable area was shrinking year by year due to growing salinity and
water logging conditions.

1.1.5 The principal contribution of IDA assistance would be in the introduction of international
best practices in design and implementation of irrigation projects, as well as appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation and future management and O&M of
rehabilitated and completed infrastructure. IDA's experience with: (i) the development of
irrigation strategies; (ii) incorporation into project planning and design of appropriate economic,
financial, social and environmental criteria; (iii) stakeholder participation; (iv) introduction of
high technical standards and procedures in design and construction; and (v) introduction of
appropriate procurement and financial management procedures would also be beneficial for the
implementing agency.

1.1.6 The Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
(RIDIP) envisaged support to the GOA to re-establish the sustainability of the I&D sub-sector.
In particular, it would contribute to the rehabilitation of the Samur-Apsheron Canal system
(SAC) and completion of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector (MMMC), both of which had been
identified as the highest priority works in the government's irrigation development plan that was
prepared in 1995. RIDIP would also assist SAIC in carrying out the following activities:
(i) preparing a sub-sector review; (ii) improving operational efficiencies in SAC; and
(iii) conducting a feasibility study for the long-term development plan for the SAC. The
outcome of these activities would help the GOA in developing its long-term vision for the sub-
sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The PDOs were to: (a) prevent the decline in supplying water to Baku City; (b) eliminate
further deterioration of the supply of irrigation water to approximately 86,000 ha along the SAC;
and (c) improve drainage and reduce water logging and salinity on approximately 36,500 ha
along the MMMC. Key performance indicators included: (i) maintain the annual amount of
water supplied to Baku Water Supply Company in line with demand; (ii) adequate supply of
irrigation water to farms within the SAC sub-project area; and (iii) ground water table at
sufficient depth to allow good crop cultivation in the MMMC sub-project area.

1.3 Revised PDO

1.3.1 There was no change to the original PDO throughout project implementation.




                                                    2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 RIDIP was expected to directly benefit around 40,000 farm families in the 86,000 ha that
were supplied by the SAC system and around 15,000 farm families in the 36,500 ha of the
MMMC system. Also, an estimated 70,000 farm families would benefit indirectly within the
command area of the MMMC system, as the improvements obtained would affect agriculture
over much of the right bank area of the lower Kura River. The benefits would be in terms of
increased crop production due to improved water supply to the farms in the SAC sub-project area
and improved drainage conditions in the MMMC sub-project area.

1.4.2 RIDIP would carry out the rehabilitation of the most important part (first 50 km) of the
SAC system. The water supply in the SAC system would become more reliable in terms of
quantity and timeliness, resulting in increased water availability at the farm level. Improvements
would reduce the water losses and facilitate water management. Benefits would also extend to
the 2.5 million people in Baku City and the Apsheron Peninsula whose water supply reliability
would be guaranteed and thus the risk of interruption reduced.

1.4.3 The completion of the last, critical link in the MMMC would relieve acute drainage
congestion in 36,500 ha and a less severe congestion in up to 200,000 ha on both sides of the
Kura River. It would also reduce contamination of the Kura River with saline water and have a
beneficial effect on irrigation schemes in the river's lower stretches, as well as on the quality of
Baku water supplies drawn from this source.

1.4.4 Institutional improvements would increase capacity within SAIC to prepare and
implement projects financed by international donors and financiers, as well as more efficient use
of funds and resources for O&M within the project's command areas.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The project had three components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure. This
component included rehabilitation and modernization of key main infrastructure of the SAC and
completion of the last link of the MMMC. The SAC works were expected to include:
(i) rehabilitation of the 50-year old Samur Headworks; (ii) repair of the concrete lining of the
first 50 km of the main canal; (iii) rehabilitation of sedimentation extraction works at the head of
and along the SAC; (iv) rehabilitation of inter-farm canals leading from the first 50 km of the
main canal; and (v) design and construction supervision services. These activities would prevent
the decline of water supply to Baku City and stop further deterioration of irrigation supply. The
MMMC works were planned to comprise: (i) completion of the remaining 31 km of the MMMC;
(ii) provision of necessary road and rail bridges and aqueducts across the MMMC, and an
adjacent service road; (iii) completion of the siphon underpass for the MMMC beneath the Araz
River; (iv) reconstruction and rehabilitation of inter-farm collectors in 36,500 ha; and (v) design
and construction supervision services. As a result of these, drainage conditions in the MMMC
sub-project area would be significantly improved.




                                                   3

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening. To improve the quality and sustainability of
irrigation management, this component included: (i) institutional support for SAC management
in order to start the development towards an organization that is cost effective, efficient, and
delivers quality water services; (ii) an irrigation sub-sector review; (iii) training and study tours;
and (iv) a comprehensive feasibility study to review the technical, environmental, social, and
economic viability of the expansion in capacity of the SAC. With these interventions, a start
would be made with the improvement of SAIC's capacity to properly develop, operate, and
maintain irrigation and drainage infrastructure.

Component 3: Project Implementation Support. This component included: (i) support to the
project implementation unit (PIU); (ii) technical assistance to the PIU; (iii) environmental and
project monitoring; and (iv) annual audits of the project accounts.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 There were no revised components.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 There were three significant changes during project implementation as follows:

Sedimentation Extraction Work. During the implementation of the rehabilitation of the
headworks and appurtenant structures on the Samur River, it was concluded that the most
effective means of excluding sediment from the system would be to provide a new sediment
basin near the headworks and exclude the rehabilitation of the two old sediment basins along the
main canal. The new sediment basin was designed for hydraulic cleaning, which is far advanced
over the mechanical cleaning adopted for the old basins which were not functioning properly any
longer due to high maintenance costs and problems with depositing accumulated sediment.

Extension of the Closing Date. At the request of the GOA, IDA agreed on November 14, 2005
with a 13-month extension of the credit closing date from May 31, 2006 to June 30, 2007. It was
especially needed to complete works on the rehabilitation and enlargement of the SAC that could
only start after the completion of the parallel Khanarkh Canal being constructed with funds from
the GOA and the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB).

Additional Financing. RIDIP received an additional credit in early 2006 to finance a cost
overrun due to higher costs for the rehabilitation and completion of the I&D infrastructure works
under the original project. The cost overrun was attributable to: (i) price increase of construction
materials during 2004 and 2005, in particular steel, cement, and fuel; and (ii) a greater than
anticipated volume of rehabilitation work for the SAC sub-component. The additional credit was
needed to fund all the originally planned activities, specifically the rehabilitation and
enlargement of the SAC main system from km 27 to 50. It was mainly used to carry out the last
civil works contracts, with a small amount allocated for the financing of the supervision
consultants. The original PDO, key indicators, and expected impact remained the same. The
additional credit in the amount of SDR 3.5 million (US$5 million equivalent) was agreed in
February 2006 and became effective on June 27, 2006.



                                                   4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 At the time of project appraisal, an agricultural sector update identified several major
issues slowing the transition to an efficient agricultural sector (see Section 1.1). RIDIP was
aimed at reversing the deterioration of irrigation infrastructure and increasing the reliability of
irrigation water flow to the farmers. As such it complimented several other IDA-funded projects
that provided support to development of the agricultural sector.

2.1.2 RIDIP was the first large irrigation project of its kind in Azerbaijan after Independence.
Project design was kept relatively simple with the main thrust of providing more secure water
supply in the SAC command area on the one hand and greatly improved drainage in the MMMC
command area on the other. It was correctly recognized that the acceptance of the concept of
rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation systems would be difficult for many of the
engineers and authorities who had been used to the traditional Soviet design approach for many
years. In addition to this, there were few national contractors who had the required experience to
undertake relatively large-scale construction under conditions of contracts specified by the
World Bank and similar international agencies. Also, there was limited experience within the
country of designing such improvements and supervising contractors who had previously been
allowed to supervise themselves. RIDIP had only three components, the largest of which was
related to the I&D infrastructure and the other two smaller components providing essential
institutional support and training. This appears to have been the correct approach and has laid
the foundation for not only the follow-up IDA-funded Irrigation Distribution System and
Management Improvement Project (IDSMIP; FY03), but also for projects undertaken by other
financers. Such projects focus on complimentary investment in the main and on-farm
distribution networks as well as the development of water users associations (WUA), needed
activities that were identified clearly at RIDIP preparation stage.

2.1.3 The two sub-projects of the SAC and the MMMC came out as the highest priority in the
country as a result of the project identification study carried out by the GOA. RIDIP was
designed to address the problems of the main off-farm systems with a follow-on project
(IDSMIP) paying attention to the on-farm systems and the strengthening of the WUAs. Without
RIDIP, the security of water supply that was demanded by the farmers would not have been
achieved and this would have impacted negatively on IDSMIP. In addition to this, the
rehabilitation of the off-farm physical infrastructure has enabled SAIC and its successor AIOJSC
to undertake a plan of proper O&M.

2.1.4 The studies undertaken in the preparation of RIDIP2 were useful during implementation.
However, the process of privatization and reallocation of land as part of the land distribution
process resulted in a much more complicated rehabilitation process of the secondary off-farm
canals in the SAC area than expected at the preparation stage. The additional surveys required in
the preparation of the design and tender documents for these canals showed that the earlier
assumptions on the alignment and requirements of the canals needed considerable modification.
This could not have been adequately foreseen and RIDIP showed considerable flexibility in

2 Financed by a PPF for US$870,000 and a PHRD Japanese Grant for US$306,600.



                                                   5

addressing the complex issues involved. The site supervision staff succeeded well in obtaining
agreement from the numerous new private farmers.

2.1.5 Environmental factors were not underestimated and the potential problems that could
arise were identified and followed up during project implementation. The environmental
safeguards that were identified were correct and bank procedures and policies were accurately
followed.

2.1.6 Two substantial risks3 were identified at preparation, but as explained later in this report
these did not prove a hindrance to project development. Cost overruns during project
implementation was regarded as a modest risk because of the detailed preparation work, but this
in fact underestimated the problems that were facing Azerbaijan at a time when construction
projects were at an infant stage. During project implementation, many new projects were also
taking place and the economy of Azerbaijan was expanding. This led to a sharp increase in the
cost of some of the key input materials leading to a cost increase that required additional
financing. Other risks did not prove a constraint on the project achievement of its objectives.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Government's commitment to RIDIP was significant and the continuous dialogue
between the IDA supervision mission members and the Government staff enabled the timely
resolution of potential significant problems. Some delays were experienced during project
implementation but these were resolved through stakeholder discussions and the commitment of
the Government staff. Counterpart funds were provided in a timely and adequate manner.

2.2.2 The assistance that was provided to the PIU by consultants in the development of
simplified and appropriate standard contract documents as well as contract management
procedures greatly facilitated the letting of multiple contracts and the supervision of the same.
Although in the beginning the distinction between the roles and responsibilities of the contractor
and supervisor was still not fully appreciated by all parties, through discussion with the parties
involved and with the assistance of the IDA supervision team, clear roles and responsibilities
were defined and these ensured a good quality of completed works. At the start of the first
contracts, it was clear that the national contractors did not fully appreciate the details of the
specifications or the requirements of the contracts. However, by the end of RIDIP, it was clear
that both the national supervisors and the contractors had gained sufficient experience and
confidence to enable them to undertake more diverse and complicated works such as the
rehabilitation of the Bahramtepe Headworks, financed under IDSMIP.

2.2.3 Much of the rehabilitation work of the SAC main canal necessitated the diversion of
flows into the Khanarkh Canal to ensure that supplies were maintained to the Jeiranbatan
Reservoir near Baku to meet the water supply demands of the city. The rehabilitation works of
the Khanarkh Canal were funded under another project and unanticipated delays in its
completion caused delays for the SAC works. It was possible in the period before

3 Substantial risks included: (i) insufficient budget for O&M; and (ii) lack of farmers' commitment to pay higher
  irrigation service fees.




                                                           6

implementation of the works to stop flows for long enough to identify the rehabilitation
requirements in detail. These were more than anticipated in the preparation documents and this
necessitated a longer period for SAC closure in order to implement the works. During the period
of canal closure from December 2006 until April 2007, water supplies to the Jeiranbatan
Reservoir were maintained and, together with the additional flows that had been provided prior
to this period of closure, all demands for Baku water supply were met.

2.2.4 The existing sediment trap on the SAC had not been used for many years and this
resulted in sedimentation of lower-order canals and in a decrease in the available storage within
the Jeiranbatan Reservoir. Learning from the past failures, it was decided that an efficient
sediment basin that was easy to clean and operate was essential to the successful O&M of the
SAC system. Although the possibility of rehabilitating the defunct mechanical sediment basin at
the head of the system was examined, it was concluded that the optimum solution would be to
build a new sediment basin that could be hydraulically flushed. To achieve a solution required
physical and mathematical modeling of the basin and this delayed implementation until
December 2004. It was completed some two years later and already has proven successful in
both trapping approximately 30 percent of the material entering the SAC, as intended, and the
easy removal of those deposited sediments by hydraulic flushing back to the Samur River. The
remainder of the material that stays in suspension is the finer fractions and it is anticipated that
much of this will find its way onto the field rather than being deposited in the SAC system.

2.2.5 The installation of modern flow measuring structures is a stage in the overall program of
the GOA to improve the efficiency of water use and to introduce irrigation service fees (ISF) to
WUAs. In the past the raion (district) irrigation offices made assumptions on how much water
was delivered to the farms based on norms for each crop. In the future, together with the work
on WUA formation and the rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation infrastructure being carried out
under IDSMIP, it will be possible to measure water actually delivered to each WUA. As the
charges for delivery of this water are gradually passed on to the farmers, this should encourage
them to both improve their efficiency of water use and also to select those crops with relatively
high returns, in line with the GOA policy.

2.2.6 In the SAC system, 42 off-farm secondary canals were rehabilitated and upgraded.
Considerable discussions and additional survey works were required to clearly define the scope
of works that had changed considerably since preparation as a result of land distribution. The
PIU and engineers were able to identify exactly the scope of works for each canal and to ensure
that as soon as the design was finished, implementation could begin. The agreement of many
farmers within the command area for each off-farm canal was needed and this took more time
than was anticipated. Benefiting from the ongoing work on strengthening the WUA
organizations, RIDIP formed consultative groups with farmers and agreed on the details of the
works to be completed as well as the period during which water supplies would be available.

2.2.7 The work undertaken for the completion of the MMMC and the rehabilitation of inter-
farm collectors required both the completion of works undertaken under an earlier IsDB-funded
project and the construction of a new section of the main collector. High ground water tables
that occurred close to the Araz River created many problems for the contractors during the early
stages of the contracts. Through close supervision of the activities and the adjustment of some of



                                                  7

the works, the contractors were able to successfully complete all the works with only minor
delays.

2.2.8 During the preparation of RIDIP it had been assumed that the initial alignment that was
selected for the new section of the MMMC would be located only on state land that had been
identified for the drain alignment before the land distribution program started and thus did not
require any land acquisition and compensation. However, closer analysis by the design
consultants showed that considerable savings could be achieved by realigning the canal and
reducing the length by 3 km. Although this required land acquisition and compensation, only a
small area of private land was involved. Even with this, considerable delays were experienced in
obtaining this land and agreeing satisfactory compensation for those affected, including some
State organizations. Work could not start on the final contract until the end of 2004 and the
collector became fully operational by mid-2006. O&M of these completed facilities was,
however, delayed by the lengthy procedures and formalities required by the GOA to hand over
all of the completed new works together to the already established O&M organization. This was
finally completed in mid-2007 and there is a commitment from AIOJSC to provide adequate
O&M budgets.

2.2.9 The institutional development component was intended to make a start with the
improvement of the quality and sustainability of irrigation management. This included
assistance with the improved management of the SAC system so that it could start developing
into a self-sustained organization; a detailed evaluation and assessment of future water use in the
SAC command area to answer a number of outstanding issues relating to the extension and
expansion of the SAC system; and a sector study to develop an irrigation and drainage sub-sector
strategy. Although some of the outputs were not intended for immediate utilization, they
achieved the objective of focusing the GOA on the direction it should be heading and the issues
on which it should concentrate. The achievement of the objectives for the SAC management was
somewhat adversely affected by indecision within the government as to where the
responsibilities for irrigation, drainage, and water management should lie and the several
reorganizations of SAIC. The senior management of the AIOJSC understands the objectives and
the need for change and recently a draft strategy for irrigation developments during the next ten
years was prepared that will be the guiding document for government's efforts to improve the
performance of the irrigation and drainage sector.

2.2.10 Training and study tours covering a wide range of topics took place, including project
administration, modern design and O&M practices of irrigation and drainage systems, contract
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). These proved to be very
successful and have facilitated the introduction of WUAs and improved water measurement and
irrigation design. The timeliness of the study tours removed some doubts that may have existed
in the minds of senior designers and managers and has benefited not only RIDIP, but also
IDSMIP.

2.2.11 Project implementation by Azeri specialists benefited from the support of a technical
assistance (TA) team of international specialists. This was initially intended to last for two years,
but following delays in various parts of RIDIP, it was considered prudent to extend the support
for a further year. By the time the input of the international TA to RIDIP was completed, the



                                                  8

basis had been laid for proper project management, standard designs and specifications and
tender documents were prepared, and construction supervision procedures were established.
These are now being adopted not only under IDA-financed projects, but also by other projects.
Despite its comparatively small cost, this TA support component was invaluable in laying the
basis for future projects.

2.2.12 In many of the FSU countries, there was been an initial resistance to the use of
international consultants. The designs and approaches adopted under the Soviet Union were
suitable in that environment. Nowadays under the prevailing free market economies, more cost
effective designs are needed, focused on individual rather than state management. After many
years of using standard designs and approaches, some of the more experienced engineers found
the proposed modifications difficult to accept during the early project phase. It is a credit to their
knowledge and adaptation that they are now producing such designs. The success of technology
transfer relied on suitable and experienced international consultants. Initially these were lacking,
not in the team supporting the PIU, but in the team assisting with project design and supervision.
These were overcome through close corporation between the government, IDA supervision
teams, and the consultants.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a) M&E Design

2.3.1 The designed system comprised regular data collection related to key performance
indicators (irrigated areas, irrigated crop yields, amount of water used for irrigated crops, etc.),
M&E of financial, procurement and construction activities, and socio-agro-economical
assessment via field surveys. The implementing agency carried out a baseline survey in 2002
and two follow-up impact studies in 2004 and 2006. In general, both the baseline survey and the
subsequent impact studies addressed the project's needs and provided information relevant to
key project impact indicators. As explained below, RIDIP has started yielding benefits in the
areas that benefited from the rehabilitation and construction works that were completed during
early project years. Nevertheless, it will take several more years before some of the indicators
(such as system conveyance and distribution efficiencies, optimum water deliveries, and yields)
will achieve the expected levels. Monitoring of key indicators will continue under IDSMIP.

2.3.2 The progress with the implementation of civil works contracts has been monitored on the
basis of spreadsheet programs that allowed tracking of cash flows and physical quantities. A
special Excel program was written by the PIU M&E specialist to monitor the construction works.
The program was regarded as very useful both for PIU construction supervision staff as well as
for consultants and contractors as it gave the possibility to automatically estimate the progress
and the remaining works per each item of Bill of Quantities on a monthly basis.




                                                   9

(b) M&E Implementation

2.3.3 The baseline survey was conducted in those areas expected to benefit from project
interventions, as well as some selected non-project control areas 4. The study included two
phases, with the first one focused on collection of general data on population, farming types,
cropping patterns, agricultural services availability, WUAs, agricultural machinery availability,
and input supply units. The second phase of the survey focused on collection of more detailed
information at farm level on land ownership, livestock and crop production, cropping pattern,
crop production cost, and irrigation practices. While the survey identified a set of quantitative
indicators in detail, qualitative ones were further developed later to allow social impact
monitoring of the project interventions, project outcomes, increased access to irrigation water
and reliability in delivery in the SAC area and improved drainage in the MMMC area.

2.3.4 For the two additional follow-up surveys information was collected from the same
households involved in the baseline survey. The first one in 2004 upon completion of the first
secondary canal package in the SAC area enabled comparison with earlier baseline survey and
monitored changes resulting from project interventions. Besides reviewing again the impact
indicators, additional information on social and environmental aspects, including household
expenditure, water resource availability, condition of irrigation schemes, soil salinity and
drainage condition, ground water mineralization and ground water table levels, was collected.
The second follow-up survey conducted in 2006 aimed to collect the information on the same
impact indicators measured during both the baseline survey and first impact study.

(c) M&E Utilization

2.3.5 The implementation progress of the project's activities was monitored monthly and
results shown in quarterly project status reports and project management reports as financial and
physical quantities tables, diagrams of actual, original and revised planned works, monitoring
tables on the financial inputs of the implementation program, and procurement plan. After
completion of training of PIU staff in MS-Project it became possible to track the project's
activities using this software.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(a) Safeguard Compliance

2.4.1 Four safeguard issues were identified at appraisal and their statuses of compliance were
as follows:

     OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment. Lake Sarisu is located relatively close to the
         proposed alignment of the MMMC. As the lake is a protected area that could be

4 Surveys have been based on experimental (randomized trials) and longitudinal (in follow-up surveys the same
  households have been studied) design. The sampling was done in two steps: first the settlements (villages) were
  randomly selected from the project/control area and then households in them by the same simple random
  procedure. In total 94 settlements were covered during the baseline survey and 432 project and 53 non-project
  households. The survey reports also provided a detailed description of the existing sociological and economic
  situation in the project areas.


                                                        10

  potentially affected by the proposed works, an environmental management plan
  incorporating a comprehensive monitoring plan was prepared at project preparation. The
  possibility of reduced inflows to the lake as well as rapid lowering of ground water tables
  was considered a possible risk for damage to this area. In addition, a second sensitive site
  located upstream from Lake Sarisu - Lake Ag-Gol - had been designated a RAMSAR
  site in 1997 for the protection of resident and migrant birds. However, as this lake
  receives drainage water from a nearby irrigation system and is located 30 km away from
  the MMMC alignment, it was considered at preparation that this lake would not be
  affected by the project works, but in order to confirm this, Lake Ag-Gol was included in
  the monitoring program. The main focus was on Lake Sarisu to measure changes in
  ground water levels in the vicinity of the lake and the main collector, as well as inflows
  and outflows and the utilization of the lake area by migratory birds. The program showed
  that local ground water tables were lowered and were facilitating agriculture, but that this
  lowering had no impact on Lake Sarisu and its ecology, with inflows and lake levels
  being maintained with no perceived changes in flora and fauna (the details are in
  Annex 3).

  In the SAC command area, a possible area for environmental concern was identified at
  Divichi Lagoon. Although this lagoon is some distance down slope from the SAC, it was
  considered prudent to monitor water levels in the lagoon. This lagoon receives both
  excess drainage water from part of the SAC command area as well as saltwater intrusion
  from the Caspian Sea. The detailed monitoring program showed no impact on the lagoon
  as a result of RIDIP interventions.

 OP 4.37, Safety of Dams. During project preparation, the safety of two large dams
  located on the Kura River about 200 km upstream from the MMMC project area was
  assessed. This assessment indicated that the dams were in a satisfactory condition and it
  was considered sufficient for compliance with the dam safety policy.

 OP 7.50, Projects on International Waterways. The Samur River forms the boundary
  between Azerbaijan and Dagestan, which is an autonomous republic of the Russian
  Federation. During project preparation, the GOA notified the Russian government of its
  proposals for SAC system rehabilitation and agreement was obtained, provided that no
  changes in elevation and ability to divert more flows to Azerbaijan were made. The
  rehabilitation works carried out at the Samur Headworks ensured this and the 1967
  agreement on river flows for the Samur River was retained, which included that about 20
  percent of the annual flow volume in the river with 75 percent probability will be
  diverted to Dagestan, about 61 percent to Azerbaijan, with the remaining 19 percent of
  the annual flow volume being retained in the river to meet environmental and other needs.

 OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. Some land acquisition and relocation was required
  for the MMMC, but this involved only 19 ha of private land in an area with limited
  cultivation and population. This was not foreseen during project appraisal as the
  alignment adopted for the MMMC at that time was located entirely on state land. In the
  Development Credit Agreement (DCA) it was stated that should it be necessary to
  acquire land, then the owners of the land should be adequately compensated at market
  prices and no-objection obtained from IDA. The GOA followed all the procedures laid


                                           11

         down by IDA with all land owners, including some State Departments, receiving
         satisfactory compensation and their agreement on the sale. As a result of this, supported
         by detailed documentation from government, IDA provided its no objection to proceed
         with the excavation of the MMMC following the new alignment.

(b) Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.2 Works, services and equipment procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank
procedures and guidelines. PIU staff was adequately trained in the use of standard Bank
documents. All actions relating to contract, services or equipment procurement typically
complied with Bank Guidelines with the appropriate no-objections being obtained before award.
Regular post-reviews were carried out by IDA staff and major issues were never identified.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 RIDIP was conceived as an initial part of a longer-term program with this first investment
dealing with off-farm irrigation infrastructure and the second phase (IDSMIP) following on and
overlapping with RIDIP and dealing with on-farm, WUAs, and water management aspects.
Initially, it was thought that it would be possible to start under RIDIP the reorganization of the
SAC management into a separate company aiming at self-financing. With several
reorganizations of the Irrigation Committee this was not possible, although the study outlining
the recommended transition arrangements was completed and accepted by AIOJSC. O&M
arrangements for the SAC and its off-farm systems continue being taken care of by the SAC
management supported by the district offices, all belonging to AIOJSC. In addition, budgets for
SAC O&M have been increasing annually during the past few years.

2.5.2 O&M for the MMMC will be handled by the MMMC maintenance organization. This
unit already operates and maintains the lower part of the system and will now take over the
remaining parts of the completed upper system, including the Araz siphon. Some delays
occurred in this hand-over as it was not possible under current government arrangements to hand
over parts of a new system. Thus all three contracts for the MMMC component of RIDIP had to
be completed before any of it could be handed over to the MMMC maintenance organization. As
with the SAC management, the MMMC maintenance organization has experience in undertaking
the required O&M and appears to have sufficient resources to take on additional work.

2.5.3 The GOA commitment to O&M is evidenced by the annual increase in allocations since
2003, with a very large increase in 2007. AIOJSC's overall budget increased from US$31
million in 2000 to US$80 million in 2006 and US$134.5 million in 2007. The O&M budget for
the SAC system increased from US$0.5 million in 2000 to US$2.6 million in 2007 and for the
MMMC system the increase was from US$0.2 million to US$0.5 million over the same period.
The users' commitment to the improved irrigation infrastructure in the SAC system is reflected
in the ISF contributions that have grown significantly from less than 20 percent of the total
budget in 2000 (US$0.1 million) to over 40 percent in 2007 (US$1.1 million).

2.5.4 Achievement of the full benefits for both sub-components of RIDIP will only be attained
after a few more years. Although there have been some immediate benefits in the MMMC area,
it will take a further 3-4 years to achieve full benefits from drainage and leaching of the soils.


                                                  12

The monitoring of ground water levels and water quality in the vicinity of the MMMC will
continue under IDSMIP, including the associated monitoring of Lake Sarisu. Similarly, the full
impact of water supply from the improved SAC system will only be fully realized once the on-
farm works have been completed. In the SAC command area M&E surveys will be repeated in
2010 under IDSMIP, using the same criteria and the same farms.5

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The PDOs were highly relevant and still remain so as the successful operation of the key
main infrastructure included in RIDIP is essential to the functioning of good water supply to
Baku City, enabling improved agricultural production in approximately 86,000 ha in the SAC
area, and the reduction of water logging and salinity in about 40,000 ha in the MMMC area.
Agriculture remains an important contributor to Azerbaijan's GDP and is the main source of
income for the majority of people living outside Baku. Irrigation and drainage are key inputs for
profitable agricultural production. Thus, the change in cultivation from low-value grains to high-
value crops and the increase in cropping intensity within the existing command areas through
improvement of I&D still remains very relevant.

3.1.2 The GOA has not diverted from its overall development objectives. It sees the I&D sub-
sector as a key one for rural development and is increasingly making funds available under the
national budget for interventions in the I&D sub-sector. This situation is unlikely to change, as
cultivation of crops in Azerbaijan without irrigation is not possible in the main growing areas
due to high evapotranspiration and low effective rainfall during the growing season. With
increasing energy costs and a near doubling in the price of electricity and fuel over the last year,
the importance of gravity I&D systems is growing. The rehabilitation and enlargement of the
SAC up to 50 km has enabled the GOA to embark upon its own program of realignment of the
remaining sections of the SAC with a view to eliminating two large pump stations en route.

3.1.3 The program for the establishment and support of WUAs throughout the country has
proceeded well with the support of IDSMIP. Although ISF does not yet cover full O&M costs,
the process has been established for the step-by-step increase leading to full O&M cost recovery
a few years after the completion of on-farm rehabilitation works. IDSMIP has also initiated the
introduction of water measuring structures within the main systems at locations where water
enters WUA-managed systems.

3.1.4 The Bank Group's new Country Partnership Strategy reflects the objectives of the new
State Program for Poverty Reduction and Sustainable Development for 2006-2015, which
includes "Supporting sustainable and balanced growth of the non-oil economy". This will be
achieved inter alia through developing essential infrastructure and services with special attention
to the rural economy. In addition, there will be emphasis on improving environmental


5 Construction works are already undertaken in several WUAs in the SAC area, with more to follow. This involves
  improvement of on-farm distribution systems and hydraulic structures. Once completed, these WUAs will serve
  as pilot areas for monitoring actual water used, in preparation for the introduction of ISF based on volumetric
  measurements.


                                                          13

management and supporting more sustainable natural resource management. Within the non-oil
sector, agriculture and agro-processing, manufacturing, transit trade, and transport are expected
to be the main drivers of growth. Since RIDIP has developed critical I&D infrastructure that will
aid agriculture, its outcomes are still very relevant to the GOA's as well as Bank's strategies.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 It is considered that RIDIP satisfactorily achieved its objectives. The combination of
project interventions in the SAC command area has resulted in a cleaner, more reliable, timely
and sustainable supply of water for both drinking and irrigation. Within the MMMC area,
project interventions have allowed lowering of ground water tables and already enabled
improvements in productivity in existing irrigated areas (more details are presented in Annex 2.)

3.2.2 The design for the rehabilitation of the 50 km portion of the SAC was based on the
projected total water consumption and allocation considering a total irrigated area of 131,600 ha
(including both inside and outside project areas) along the SAC and domestic and industrial
requirements. The domestic and industrial water demand was adopted from the draft water
master plan for greater Baku (1998), with the annual average demand estimated at 290 million
cubic meter (MCM). The planned improvements to the SAC system and its capacity have
ensured the security of water supply to the Baku water supply company (Azersu), with all
demands for water being met, even during the final SAC closure period. The SAC supplied an
average of 257 MCM/year between 2001 and 2006 (ranging from 243 to 314 MCM). Although
this is less than the 290 MCM considered at appraisal, supplies were as requested by Azersu.
Such aspects as metering and reduction in distribution losses within the city have reduced the
demand for water.

3.2.3 The canal improvements and the related increase in efficiency are expected to be of
particular benefit to irrigation. The demands of drinking water supply are typically given the
highest priority and thus any improvements to the SAC main canal will not really be reflected so
much in the water supply to Baku, of which the SAC supplies half the needs, but more in the
security of supply to irrigated areas. Water supply delivered for irrigation in 2006 was such that
50 percent of farmers received more than 75 percent of required water. This is positively
manifested through changes in cropping pattern to high-value crops that need more secure or
regular water supplies. There has been a substantial change from cereals to fodder crops and
apples and to a lesser extent vegetables. Relatively to the base values in 2002, the area under
cereals in the SAC project area dropped from 80.5 percent to 49 percent in 2006. The area under
fodder crops, apples, and vegetables increased by about 19 percent, 9 percent, and 3 percent
respectively. The fallow area remained more or less constant in the SAC area. There must be
several reasons for the changes, but it is certain that the better access to irrigation water is giving
confidence to move away from the low-risk, low water requiring cereals. There are already
some increases in yield, especially for fodder crops and vegetables, but as expected they are
typically still below the yields that are expected four years after the completion of the project
works (see table below; a larger period is needed after completion of rehabilitation to see trends
as for instance apple yields in 2006 were reduced due to severe weather conditions).




                                                  14

                              Changes in Yields and Cropping Patterns

                                                  SAC                       MMMC
         Item                  Unit       2002     2004     2006    2002      2004    2006
         Cropping Pattern
         Cereals                  %       80.5      51.3    48.8    26.4       21.6   25.5
         Cotton                   %         -        -       -       4.5       4.6     5.5
         Vegetables               %        0.5      1.8     3.3      1.2       2.6     5.0
         Fodder crops             %        0.5     17.8     19.1    42.0       61.0   56.7
         Apple                    %        7.3     15.5     16.5       -        -       -
         Fallow                   %       11.2     13.7     12.6    25.9       9.69    7.3
         Crop Yields
         Cereals                ton/ha     2.2      1.7     2.3      2.1       2.1     2.3
         Cotton                 ton/ha      -        -        -      1.5       1.7     1.7
         Vegetables             ton/ha     12       14.7    16.3      10       11     11.2
         Fodder crops           ton/ha     3.8      4.8     4.9      4.2       3.9     5.3
         Apple                  ton/ha     3.5      9.2     6.3        -        -       -

3.2.4 With the completion of the MMMC improvement works, drainage water that previously
was released in the overstretched Kura left bank collector system now passes down the MMMC
and beneath the Araz river into the Caspian Sea. To complement the main collector works, the
other main and secondary drains within the total command area of about 40,000 ha (10 percent
over target) were rehabilitated and cleaned and this included seven collectors with a total length
of 71.8 km. The combination of MMMC and other drainage works has meant that the command
area lying in the flat low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyan plains can be more easily drained
to the desired level with the ground water table now being generally below 2 meters within 5 km
from the main drainage system. This permits unrestricted growth in most of the irrigation and
grazing areas.

3.2.5 The cropping area changes in the MMMC area were less pronounced. The area under
cereals remained basically constant. The fallow area reduced by about 19 percent as the area
under fodder and vegetables increased by 15 percent and 4 percent respectively. It seems that
the better conditions in the field gave the farmers the opportunity and confidence to cultivate
additional area. The study results show some increases in yield, especially for fodder crops and
vegetables, but as expected they are typically still below the yields that are expected four years
after the completion of the project works. Leaching of salts will still take some years to allow
for a further increase in yields. Although it has not been regularly measured, the construction of
MMMC has also reduced the drainage flow into Main Shirvan Collector on the left bank of the
Kura River. This system used to suffer from overload with some of the saline Main Mil-
Karabakh Collector (MMKC) drainage water being released in the Kura River during peak
drainage periods. This added to the reduced water quality in the downstream section of the Kura
River that is used both to supplement the Baku water supply as well as meeting irrigation needs
in the lower plains.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 At appraisal the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for RIDIP was estimated at 19.9 percent
(NPV = US$27.7 million) accruing from the following factors: (i) increase in yields;



                                                 15

(ii) cropping pattern conversion to higher value crops; and (iii) prevention of the future collapse
of the irrigation facilities and subsequent decline in irrigable areas. The SAC sub-project would
also contribute with substantial benefits from securing the current level of drinking water to
Baku City. The anticipated increase in yields and conversion to higher value crops was assumed
to take place in full only after 11 to 13 years from completion. Separate ERR estimates for the
SAC and MMMC sub-projects were 23.3 and 16.4 percent, respectively (NPV = US$16.3
million for the SAC and US$11.4 million for the MMMC).

3.3.2 Based on the actual results obtained by farmers in the project area according to the M&E
Surveys, new evaluation scenarios were built for the ICR Economic and Financial Analysis6.
Results show that the overall ERR for RIDIP would reach 23.7 percent (NPV = US$66.6
million). The higher than expected results stem mainly from the following factors: (i) increase in
yields; and (ii) cropping pattern conversion to higher value crops. ERR estimates for the SAC
and MMMC sub-project areas were 20.3 and 30.5 percent, respectively (NPV = US$33 million
for the SAC and US$33.6 million for the MMMC). SAC investments showed a lower than
expected result because: (i) the actual investment cost was more than 40 percent higher than the
PAD estimate; (ii) no future collapse of the irrigation facilities and subsequent decline in
irrigable areas was considered in the without-project scenario; and (iii) no value was attributed to
the benefits from securing the current level of drinking water to Baku City considering that this
demand would prevail over the demand for irrigation, as water for human consumption and the
related benefits would as much as possible have been secured even without RIDIP.

3.3.3 The norms established for unit costs in the PAD were initially higher than those included
in the signed contracts. This reflected the initial lack of activity in the construction sector in
Azerbaijan and the lack of competition. With the presence of more contractors in the market
place, unit prices were relatively stable until the end of 2005 when the price of basic input
materials such as fuel, electricity, cement, and steel increased substantially. This had an impact
on the remaining RIDIP contracts and was one of the reasons why additional funds were
requested to finance the resultant cost overruns.

3.3.4 Farm family benefits7 in the SAC irrigated command area are expected to increase by 57
percent from the annual equivalent of US$2,827 to US$4,446 once the new orchards and other
more intensive crops are in full production. Considering the average family size of 5.9 persons
in the SAC area, the daily per capita income from agriculture would be increased from US$1.31
to US$2.06 which is contributing to pull out of poverty the average rural family in the SAC area.
Farm family benefits in the MMMC irrigated command area are expected to be increased by 40.6
percent from the annual equivalent of US$4,559 to US$6,410 as the new drainage system allows
for soils to be leached from excessive salts. Being the average family size of 5.7 persons per
family in the MMMC area, the per capita daily income would be increased from US$2.19 to
$3.08.




6 The scenarios were built using FARMOD software. The 2002 survey data helped to define the before-project
  situation and the 2006 surveys data the with-project situation.
7 Typical farms were modeled for SAC and MMMC areas with the average size derived from the M&E surveys:
  2.65 ha for SAC command area and 3.7 ha for the MMMC command area.


                                                          16

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

3.4.1 The overall outcome rating is rated as satisfactory. RIDIP was conceived to address
those priority issues identified by the GOA which were very relevant to the country's needs and
priorities and the project constituted the first step in the overall plan to bring agricultural
production back to the levels and returns that used to exist in Azerbaijan prior to the break-up of
the FSU. As described above, the project has made an important first step towards the
achievement of this overarching government objective. However, minor shortcomings relate to:
(i) RIDIP's institutional-related activities were not fully implemented as a result of several
reorganizations of SAIC; and (ii) the delays in handing over MMMC O&M responsibility to the
MMMC maintenance organization, which resulted from the lengthy procedures and formalities
required by the GOA to hand over all of the completed new works together, did not allow proper
O&M to start during the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Since 2002, the number of people living in poverty in Azerbaijan has more than halved.
Most of this has been attributed to improvements in welfare in Baku City, with the poverty in
rural areas also declining, but not so rapidly. A lack of employment, assets and commercial
opportunities as well as unreliable infrastructure, have been key driving factors behind rural
migration. Agriculture and in particular irrigated agriculture is the main source of livelihood in
most rural areas. RIDIP has provided an input into poverty alleviation in the country by
increasing the return that farmers in the two project areas receive though provision of the
opportunity for them to grow high-value crops from greater security of irrigation supplies.
Typical farm models presented in Annex 4 based on actual facts (yield improvements, increased
irrigated areas and shifting cropping patterns to higher value crops) confirm that family benefits
are increasing for about 33,420 families in the project areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 Capacity building and institutional change were one of the supporting components of
RIDIP. The assistance provided was mainly directed at the designers and implementers of the
project. However, as almost all construction works have been completed by local contractors,
they also have been able to improve their skills and capacity to work in the changing and
demanding environment in the country.

3.5.3 Regarding the SAC management improvement study that was carried out in 2004 and
was accepted by PIU and AIOJSC, few recommendations have been implemented as the
irrigation agency went through several reorganizations during the past years. It was first brought
under the umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture, but then after a short period again taken out
from that Ministry and transformed into the government-owned AIOJSC. Each of these
reorganizations took time, especially to get new organizational charters approved, which resulted
in uncertainty among staff, minimizing the opportunity for major reform. However, most of the
recommendations are for the long-term, as is the case of the proposal that SAC management
becomes financially independent from AIOJSC. With the SAC system rehabilitated it is


                                                   17

expected that the next Bank-funded irrigation project planned for FY09 will pursue on the
subject of self-financing. Regarding the proposal for the District Irrigation Exploitation Units to
work closer with WUAs it is believed that it will be performed once the WUAs become stronger
organizations under IDSMIP.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.4 Before RIDIP started, there were few contractors who would be capable of undertaking
such complicated works as the rehabilitation of the Bahramtepe Headworks under IDSMIP.
Now, with several large projects implemented under RIDIP, a number of the larger local
contractors have both the resources and experience to undertake these more complex
construction contracts. This increase in contractors' capacity will have a positive impact on
subsequent projects both in the I&D sub-sector as well as in other sectors.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 In general, both the baseline survey and the impact studies addressed the project's needs
and provided information relevant to key project impact indicators. RIDIP target was to irrigate
annually 64,000 ha in the SAC project area and 36,500 ha in the MMMC project area. The
beneficiaries' surveys show an increase in the irrigated agricultural area due to improved water
supply (SAC) and through solving drainage problems (MMMC). The increase in irrigated area
in the SAC command area is resulting from better water abstraction and supply conditions which
allowed for expanding the areas under irrigation within the farms. The better access to irrigation
water is giving farmers confidence to move away from the low-risk, low water requiring cereals
to high value crops. The percentage of dissatisfied farmers dropped from 22.4 percent to 10.2
percent, while the percentage of fully satisfied farmers increased by over 29 percent (see
Section 3.2 and Annex 6).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1.1 The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate. At the time of project preparation,
risks from outputs to development outcomes were clearly discussed and defined. These have
been reviewed and assessed on project completion and although true at the time of project
preparation, the risks have been clearly reduced during implementation. The commitment of the
GOA to support both I&D development and investments in rehabilitated and upgraded
infrastructure has been clearly shown. O&M budgets have been significantly increased, as
indicated in paragraph 2.5.3. There is every indication that this commitment will continue and
that adequate funds will be committed in future to support the O&M of all RIDIP facilities in the
longer term. User contributions through the ISF and other fees have also grown in the SAC area
from less than 20 percent in 2002 to over 40 percent of annual O&M in 2007. As part of
IDSMIP that focuses on moving towards farmer-managed systems, the issue of increased service
fees and collection rates will be addressed further.

4.1.2 The attention paid during project implementation to quality control and modern
manageable designs (e.g. modern hydraulic control structures and a hydraulic sediment basin)
will almost certainly increase farmer satisfaction and reduce annual O&M costs. GOA's



                                                 18

investments in the rehabilitation and upgrading of on-farm I&D infrastructure is also an
important contributing factor.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

5.1.1 Bank performance is rated as satisfactory in ensuring quality at entry. The Bank spent
sufficient resources on project preparation, with most of the preparation done in 1999 and 2000.
The first identification mission took place much earlier, but it took much time to reach agreement
and move from a first identification mission to full preparation. During preparation, the Bank
team clearly identified the sectoral issues and ensured that the works proposed in the approach
adopted were closely aligned with GOA objectives, with one of the main points being the need to
improve main infrastructure works before benefits could be achieved on-farm. The preparation
also recognized the need for an immediate follow-up project to complement the off-farm
interventions through on-farm investments, training and institutional reform (IDSMIP). The
comparatively simple design of RIDIP enabled the implementing team to concentrate on a few
number of well identified objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision

5.1.2 Quality of Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. A total of 14 full supervision
missions were provided by the Bank during project implementation. These missions were timely
and did not shy away from addressing issues that arose during the realization of a project of the
type that was relatively new to the country at that time. The missions reacted proactively to
identify issues and problems that could have jeopardized the achievement of the PDOs or could
have resulted in both cost overruns and substandard end products. The aide memoires prepared
at the end of each mission were informative and clear, as well as identified the issues that needed
to be addressed before the next mission. The supervision missions were sympathetic to both the
problems faced by the PIU and the obstacles facing the international TA teams. Where
deficiencies or substandard performance occurred Bank staff was not afraid to deal with them in
a realistic and fair manner, resulting in the replacement of some international consultants as a
consequence.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

5.1.3 Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Bank performance was satisfactory at
all stages from project preparation through supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

5.2.1 Government performance is rated as satisfactory. The Deputy Prime Minister in charge
of the I&D sector and management of SAIC and its successor (AIOJSC) have been very



                                                  19

supportive of RIDIP. The Deputy Prime Minister was always accessible to Bank missions and
was involved in decision-making, as needed. Management and staff of AIOJSC have always
been available to discuss important issues during supervision missions and have provided
sufficient resources for these missions. They have also assisted the teams of international
consultants in their work in Azerbaijan and tried to remove any obstacles that prevented them
from carrying out their work successfully. The Ministry of Finance has provided counterpart
funds and support as and when required and in the amounts determined during project
preparation and annual budget requests. The works done in the SAC area have allowed
government to move to the next stage of development in the SAC command area. The feasibility
study on the long-term development plan in the area that was prepared under the project is
serving as the blueprint for the ongoing developments, which include the planning for a dam in
the SAC area and a new gravity canal to Jeiranbatan Reservoir.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

5.2.2 Implementing agency performance is rated as satisfactory. The AIOJSC and PIU staff
were committed to the project implementation and this is evident by the very strong teamwork
that now exists and is being carried forward into IDSMIP. Their commitment to the work and
the production of high standards, in spite of their initial inexperience with the implementation of
a project of this kind, contributed to the success of RIDIP. Initially there was considerable
reluctance to delegate powers to the consultants who were supervising the construction works
and also to adopt some aspects of an improved and modern design approach. These barriers
were removed through discussions, working with the international and national consulting teams,
to the extent that all involved appear proud of what they had been involved with and have
managed to keep the costs within reasonable limits.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

5.2.3 Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Both Government and
AIOJSC/PIU were fully committed to RIDIP and had a satisfactory contribution to it.

6. Lessons Learned

   Agricultural development plays a pivotal role in poverty reduction in Azerbaijan. Properly
      operating I&D infrastructure is essential for good agricultural production in the country.
      Adequate public investments for rehabilitation and modernization of I&D systems are
      needed to reverse the ongoing deterioration of systems and make them more efficient;

   Azerbaijan has limited water resources and competing demands for water resources are
      increasing. Future I&D investments also have to address as one of its main objectives the
      improvement and sustainable use of water through integrated water resources management
      from the river basin perspective;

   The rehabilitation of I&D infrastructure, institutional reforms in water management, the
      development of WUAs for ensuring their professional and financial independence, and the
      transfer to WUAs of the public I&D infrastructure are all necessary instruments for




                                                 20

      improving in a holistic manner the efficiency and sustainability of irrigated agriculture in
      Azerbaijan;

   Considering the current state of much of the I&D infrastructure in the country, for
      rehabilitation purposes a system approach has to be adopted, allowing an in-depth analysis
      of major shortcomings of an entire irrigation or drainage system in order to propose the
      necessary improvements in light of an overall objective of restoring capacity, increasing
      efficiency, and improving O&M;

   Investments in modernizing I&D infrastructure have to focus on reducing the future
      operation and maintenance costs of systems, as for example in the case of the sediment
      basin at the SAC Headworks; and

   The establishment of "participatory protocols" with the beneficiaries and WUAs greatly
      assists in the handing over of completed rehabilitated and upgraded irrigation infrastructure.
      Not only does this avoid misunderstandings later on but it precludes possible future claims
      by farmers against the irrigation agency for perceived deficiencies. Transfer protocols have
      a wider application in similar projects to encourage a more participatory approach to the
      planning of rehabilitation works, to ensure that the views of the respective WUAs have
      been clearly represented, and that on completion of works each WUA agrees that the work
      has been completed to an acceptable standard and that they will be prepared to maintain it
      thereafter;

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1     The Borrower's completion report does not raise any issues that need to be addressed in
this section.

(b) Cofinanciers

7.2     Not applicable. There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

7.3     Not applicable.




                                                 21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components              Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)           Appraisal

IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND                         33.83               47.24             140

COMPLETION
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                               1.74                2.31             133

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                     2.43                2.59             107


               Total Baseline Cost         38.00               52.14             137

Physical Contingencies                      3.50                0.00               0

Price Contingencies                         4.57                0.00               0
                Total Project Costs        46.07               52.14             113
Project Preparation Fund                    0.80                0.87             109
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00               0
        Total Financing Required           46.87               53.01             113




(b) Financing

                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds              Type of                                 Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing     Estimate      Estimate
                                                     (USD millions)(USD millions) Appraisal

International Development Association
(IDA)                                      N/A           42.00        48.00       114

Government of Azerbaijan                                  4.87         5.01       103
        Total                                            46.87        53.01       113




                                               22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

2.1     This annex contains more details to support Section 3.2, Achievement of Project
Development Objectives. It does not repeat the data contained in that section, but provides more
data to support the conclusions reached as well as some background data.

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of I&D Infrastructure

(a) Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC) System

2.2     Samur Headworks. The headworks on the Samur River were built in 1957 to improve
the water supply to the existing irrigation system, bring more lands under irrigation, and improve
the domestic and industrial water supply to Baku and the Apsheron Peninsula. The agreement
for the water sharing between Azerbaijan and Dagestan was signed in 1967 and is still valid
today. This is based on river flow for a probability of exceedance of 75 percent which is 1,472
MCM per annum. The flow is divided, with 889 MCM to Azerbaijan, 300 MCM to Dagestan,
and 283 MCM for fish farming and environmental flows. The intake for both Azerbaijan and
Dagestan is on the right bank of the Samur River and is managed by Azerbaijan. The works
carried out at the headworks were based on ensuring that the system can be operated more
efficiently and did not change the diversion volumes.

2.3     The actual works completed were the improvement of the headworks structure, including
the Samur  Derbend Canal Intake Siphon (supplying Dagestan), the replacement/refurbishment
of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment, the reconstruction of the downstream sill,
strengthening of the apron on the Samur River, and the reconstruction of left and right bank
downstream protection works. The construction of new head regulators for the SAC and
Khanarkh Canals was carried out as well. Improvements carried out have meant that the gate
operators have been able to control more easily the flash flood flows in the river and also to
exclude base sediment flows from entering at the main intake. It has allowed the needed
volumes of water to enter the offtakes and meet the water allocations of the SAC and the
Derbend Canal.

2.4     Sediment Basins. The original mechanical desilting plant was built at the headworks in
1957 and had a capacity of 28.8 m3/sec. It consisted of two settling compartments, divided each
into two basins 27.5 m wide by 275 m long and with a depth of 5 m. The settling basin was only
utilized for two years before it went out of operation. This appears to have resulted from an
incorrect determination of the settling time of the sediments, failure of the dredging pumps, lack
of funds to repair or replace the dredger, and selection of complicated and energy dependent
technology of cleaning the settling basins. Two other settling basins are located at km 8 and km
12 on the SAC. These have a capacity of three and six MCM, but silted up many years ago.
There is also a hydraulic settling basin at km 100 on the SAC at Siyazan. These settling basins
were not effective and silt has been entering the Jeiranbatan Reservoir for many years, causing a
reduction in storage. The current useful storage is about 100 MCM, which is sufficient to meet
the demand for the Baku water supply for four months (based on the average monthly
withdrawal of 24 MCM), assuming no inflows.



                                                 23

2.5     Discharges in the Samur River vary markedly throughout the year, reaching a maximum
in the period June/July and a minimum around February. There is also a corresponding large
variation in sediment concentration. Sediment concentrations in the flood season are high with
average concentrations in excess of 20,000 part per million (ppm) and peak values exceeding
50,000 ppm. The sediment sizes are predominantly fine with 75 percent of the sediment load
being finer than 0.05 mm. Annually approximately 4 MCM of sediment enter the SAC system
through the SAC Headworks. At present approximately one third of this is deposited in
Jeiranbatan Reservoir while the remaining sediment enters the irrigation system. Concerns were
raised about the high canal maintenance costs and any further loss of storage in the reservoir due
to sedimentation and the operational problems caused when pumping sediment laden water from
the SAC into the Jeiranbatan Reservoir. To counteract this, it was agreed that sediment
reduction measures needed reinstatement at the SAC Headworks.

2.6     As indicated, the sediment that enters the SAC system from the Samur River is
predominantly fine and so removing this sediment from the water is extremely difficult. A range
of sediment control options was identified and studied by the consulting engineering team, with
the selected option being construction of a new structure perpendicular to the river adjacent to
the site of the old basin to avoid demolition costs and possible foundation problems. This option
was cost effective and had the highest removal percentage at about 27 percent of the total
sediment entering the headworks. With the adopted design, monthly flows were simulated
together with amounts of material deposited. This showed that more than one MCM of sediment
would be trapped annually in the sediment basin (see Table A2.1).

2.7     The materials trapped are the coarser sediment fractions, while the sediment that remains
in suspension is carried through to agricultural land or into the Jeiranbatan Reservoir. With the
new arrangement (that includes also rehabilitated scouring gates in the actual headworks) it is
estimated that the amount of material deposited in the SAC system will be reduced by about 0.5
MCM, saving about AZN 1 million per annum in maintenance costs (as the sediment basin relies
on hydraulic flushing there are minimum costs associated with the removal of material deposited
in the basin). The amount of sediment entering the Jeiranbatan Reservoir will be reduced by
about the same amount, or 50 percent of what had previously entered in a year. This will slow
down the current decline in available storage that is already encroaching on the live storage.

2.8     Samur-Apsheron Canal. The current SAC configuration was completed in the late
1960s. It carries water in a south-easterly direction to Baku and also provides irrigation water to
areas of land between the canal and the Caspian Sea. Near Baku the water is pumped into the
Jeiranbatan Reservoir and is then used for water supply to Baku. In addition to the water
abstracted from the Samur River, water is also abstracted from two rivers that the main
conveyance canal crosses; the Qudyalchay and the Velvelichay Rivers.

2.9     Since the break-up of the former Soviet Union, only limited routine maintenance had
been carried out on the canal system. The works to be undertaken under the project included the
rehabilitation and improvement of the first 50 km of the 182 km long main supply canal, the
modernization of the outlets from both the SAC and the Khanarkh Canal, and the improvement
and upgrading of the associated secondary canals.




                                                 24

Table A2.1 - Estimate of Monthly Sediment Deposited in Sediment Basin




                                 25

2.10    For the redesign of the SAC system, the report on the long-term strategy and
feasibility study for the SAC system conducted during the project concluded that the
canal capacity should be enlarged in certain sections from km 27 to km 50 in order to
capture water from other rivers that cross the conveyance canal.

2.11    Works commenced with provision of temporary water supplies to 14 communities
that draw water from the SAC. The main works could not start until the SAC was closed
and drained which was delayed by cold winter conditions. The first closure window was
restricted to 3.7 months in 2005/06, instead of the intended six months.8 The main canal
was again closed 1.8 months late for the second window, on November 25, 2006 rather
than October 1, shortening the second closure period to 4.7 months, thereby limiting the
period to complete all works within the canal.9 The main reason for the delay was the
late completion of the Khanarkh Canal in December 2006, much later than expected.
This canal had to serve as a by-pass for sufficient water delivery to the Jeiranbatan
Reservoir for Baku during the SAC closure. Water supplies to the reservoir were
investigated during the March 2005 IDA review mission. It was found that closure for
six months was not possible without the Khanarkh Canal, hence the need to limit the
SAC closure period (2005/06 season) and delay the closure (autumn 2006). In spite of
these limited periods for construction, the contractors succeeded in completing all the
works by the time water was required again in the SAC. The contractors were able to
mobilize sufficient teams throughout the length of the SAC in order to meet the very tight
deadline.

2.12    Secondary Canals. The total length of secondary canals rehabilitated and
upgraded amounted to 185.7 km compared with 260 km in the PAD. This reduction
resulted from the change in original scope of works due to farm privatization in the
command area. Some canal alignments had to be changed or adjusted and canals
previously considered to be off-farm became on-farm. Detailed surveys of the resulting
systems undertaken revealed greater rehabilitation needs than had been expected. Almost
all canals required lining whereas previously it had been assumed that selective lining
would be sufficient. In addition, no suitable structures remained and thus new control,
measurement and regulating structures were needed on all secondary canals. The canals
command an area of 57,500 ha.

2.13    The works were undertaken in two separate contracts. The first one (Package 1)
included the rehabilitation of 24 secondary canals (97.2 km) and associated structures
served by the initial 25 km section of SAC and supplying a command area of 18,100 ha.
A total of 189 conventional gated structures were installed on the secondary canals (to
regulate flow into the tertiary network), as well as 262 flow measurement devices (hydro-
post), 107 pipe crossing and slab bridges, and 11 special structures. Flumes were
introduced for measurement as they are less prone to silt accumulation than the
sharp-crested weir proposed in the original consultants' design. The second contract
(Package 2) covered 19 secondary canals (88.5 km) supplied by both the remaining
length of the SAC up to km 50 and the Khanarkh Canal with a total command area of


8 The main canal was closed from December 21, 2005 until April 12, 2006.
9The main canal was reopened on April 15, 2007, at the start of the irrigation season.


                                                  26

39,400 ha. Structures included 142 small bridges (some with culverts), 147 long-crested
weirs, 190 offtakes with flow measurement, 17 Replogle flumes, and 33 cross-drainage
under-passes. Under this contract additional modern structures were introduced,
including long-crested weirs that permit almost constant abstraction flow into tertiary
canals with varying flows in secondary canals, and Replogle flumes to measure flows in
both main and secondary canals with relatively high sediment loads.

2.14   Considerable effort was required to ensure that full farmer's cooperation was
obtained about the time of irrigation canal closure and to ensure that they respected and
did not damage the completed works. This enabled maintenance of irrigation supplies in
most areas with secondary canals being brought back into use gradually before
completion of the total contract. To avoid misunderstandings later and to preclude
possible future claims by farmers against AIOJSC for perceived deficiencies, a `transfer
protocol' was agreed with respective WUAs after the completion of each secondary canal.
This protocol accepted the condition of the rehabilitated works and structures. The work
that was being done with WUAs under IDSMIP greatly facilitated this handing over and
acceptance process as by this stage the WUAs understood that they will be taking
responsibility in the future for all or most of the rehabilitated systems.

2.15   Details of the secondary canals that were rehabilitated in the two SAC contracts
are given in Table A2.2 below. The first package concentrated on the command area
located between the SAC and the Khanarkh Canal with the offtakes that derive their
water directly from the SAC. Some of these canals extended across the Khanarkh Canal
and therefore supplied both the SAC and Khanarkh Canal command areas. In the second
package most offtakes are related to those that derive their water from the Khanarkh
Canal. New lining was provided for all Package 1 canals and all but three of Package 2
canals. Where possible, new long-crested weirs were introduced as these require less
operator intervention for effective water management.

2.16   Inflows into Jeiranbatan Reservoir and Baku Water Supply. Complete flow
data for 2007 are available up until the end of August. This shows increased delivery for
the same months of 2006, even though the SAC was closed for the first 50 km for four
months. During this period, flows were limited to the capacity of the Khanarkh Canal.
Once the canal was open, full advantage could be taken of the flows in the rivers and in
June the average continuous flow for the month at the headworks was about 55 m3/sec.
In order to assess the overall impact of the flows for irrigation and Baku water supply, an
estimate was made for the remaining months of 2007, considering past flows into the
headworks and within the system. This would indicate that the volume of water entering
Jeiranbatan Reservoir for 2007 will be about 370 MCM (see Table A2.3 below), or nearly
30 percent above the target set in the PAD.




                                              27

       Table A2.2 - Details of Secondary Canals Completed in SAC Area

          Canal           Main Canal     No. of                   Remarks
No.  Ref. No.   Length   Water Source  Structures
Package 1
1    TAK-3        3,200      SAC               19
2    TAK-5        2,400      SAC                8
3    TAK-6        2,600      SAC               26
4    TAK-7          570      SAC                8
5    TAK-8        4,100      SAC               15 Supplies SAC Command area only
6    TAK-9        4,150      SAC               20
7    TAK-10       5,235      SAC                6
8    TAK-11       1,100      SAC               10
9    TAK-12       4,163      SAC               25
10   TAK-13      12,055      SAC               49 Also Supplies Khanarkh command area
11   TAK-14       2,600      SAC               21 Supplies SAC Command area only
12   TAK-15       6,244      SAC               31
13   TAK-15Kh     3,382      SAC               37 Also Supplies Khanarkh command area
14   TAK-16       4,267      SAC               26
15   TAK-17       4,200      SAC               20 Supplies SAC Command area only
16   TAK-18       2,330      SAC               17
17   TAK-19       6,430      SAC               51
18   TAK-19Kh     6,800      SAC               42 Also Supplies Khanarkh command area
19   TAK-20       2,000      SAC               14 Supplies SAC Command area only
20   TAK-21       6,750      SAC               36 Also Supplies Khanarkh command area
21   TAK-22       5,060      SAC               38
22   TAK-23       2,900      SAC               21 Supplies SAC Command area only
23   TAK-24       4,630      SAC               29
                 97,166                       569
Package 2
 1    Kh-R-1     3,560     Khanarkh            29 New Lining
 2    Kh-8       4,809     Khanarkh            41 New Lining
 3    Kh-9       5,660     Khanarkh            33 New Lining
 4    Kh-10      3,600     Khanarkh            29 New Lining
 5    Kh-18      1,541     Khanarkh            19 New Lining
 6    Kh-26      4,209     Khanarkh            29 New Lining
 7    Kh-27      4,656     Khanarkh            34 New Lining
 8    TAK-28     8,270       SAC               30 Rehabilitation
 9    Kh-28      7,165     Khanarkh            39 Part Rehabilitation
10    TAK-29     3,920       SAC               36 New Lining
11    TAK-31     3,450       SAC               19 New Lining
12    TAK-32     2,200       SAC               16 New Lining
13    Kh-32      4,152     Khanarkh            36 New Lining
14    TAK-33     3,020       SAC               22 New Lining
15    Kh-33      4,500     Khanarkh            12 New Lining
16    TAK-34     7,800       SAC               32 Rehabilitation
17    Kh-34      7,200     Khanarkh            43 New Lining
18    Kh-35      6,400     Khanarkh            38 New Lining
19    Kh-26A     2,425     Khanarkh            23 New Lining
                88,537                        560




                                      28

                       Table A2.3 - Annual Flow Volumes in the SAC (in `000 m3)

                                     Abstraction                                  Delivery                        Intake to
       Year                                                                                                      Jeiranbatan
                      Samur        Valvelichay         Total        Khanarkh         SAC         Total            reservoir

        2001          769,097         17,668           786,765        67,135        562,700     629,835            293,025

        2002          773,909         15,774           789,683        65,532        555,555     621,087            319,918

        2003          793,642         13,660           807,302        66,397        618,469     684,866            364,173

        2004          720,471         35,239           755,710        80,603        561,631     642,234            313,467

        2005          837,065         28,164           865,229        79,615        637,940     717,555            340,459

        2006          659,868         117,426          777,298        75,429        608,649     684,082            306,889

        2007          778,319         84,230           862,549        237,656       495,481     733,138            370,268
   Notes: Data for 2007 is projected based on information provided by the PIU for the first 8 months of the year. Data excludes
   discharges for miscellaneous water use, e.g. environmental flows, estimated at around 100 MCM per year.


2.17      Water flows into the Jeiranbatan Reservoir are dictated by drinking water
demands in Baku City and requests made by Azersu to the SAC management according
to their agreement. Priority is always given to the drinking water supply and thus it can
be expected that annual supplies of water into the reservoir should be more or less
constant. Figure A2.1 below shows that the proportion of water entering the reservoir is
more or less constant. The remaining water is available for irrigation in the SAC
command area and it can be seen from the figure below that the total supply into the
system for all needs is at its highest level since 2001.

       Figure A2.1 - Water Supplied by SAC and Khanarkh Canals for Irrigation and to
                                                    Reservoir (`000 m3)




2.18      Flows for Irrigated Areas. The data for the total amount of water delivered to the
irrigated areas in the SAC has been based on estimates of irrigation water needed by
crops grown and according to standard crop norms. Measurements of flow are made at
the headworks, but there has not been sufficient time to use the new hydroposts to
measure water volumes within the system, thus data on total water supplied within the
project raions must be treated as general figures. Similarly, data on irrigated areas
includes all the raions in the SAC area and thus covers areas above the SAC, areas
irrigated by spring/ground water sources, or directly from the rivers passing through the
command area as well as those supplied by the Samur Headworks. Table A2.4 below


                                                                29

shows that the total area supplied by gravity before delivery of the water into Jeiranbatan
Reservoir is 92,644 ha.

                      Table A2.4 - Irrigated Areas Supplied by the SAC

                     Part of System       Command         Irrigated   Irrigable
                                            Area          land (ha)   lands (ha)
                                        SAC                   16,281      20,350
                     In Project Area    Khanarkh              34,840      43,550
                                              TOTAL           51,121      63,900
                                        SAC                   25,859      32,325
                   Outside Project Area Khanarkh              15,664      19,580
                                              TOTAL           41,523      51,905
                                        SAC                   42,140      52,675
                                        Above SAC             35,155      40,442

                        TOTAL           Khanarkh              50,504      63,130
                                        AMC                   16,207      20,259
                                        Ground water            5,614       7,018
                                              TOTAL          149,620     183,524


2.19    The gross amount of water delivered into the system after the first improvements
were completed in 2005, when the first impacts of the work on the SAC and the
headworks structures began to be realized, average out at about 372 MCM per year, or
about 4,000 m3/ha.10 Until more detailed data are collected under IDSMIP on flows
throughout the improved system, utilizing the new measuring structures, it will be
difficult to determine whether the irrigated areas are receiving the water they need.
However, crop data from the M&E surveys has shown a marked change in cropping
pattern to higher value and higher water consuming crops, while the satisfaction rates
among farmers increased. This would indicate that farmers are receiving greater
quantities of water on a more reliable basis than before.

(b) Main Mil-Mugan Collector (MMMC) System

2.20    Drainage is essential for many irrigation systems in Azerbaijan, but most critical
in the area totaling about 760,000 ha where soil salinity has developed for lack of natural
drainage, especially in the center of the country in the Kura-Araz Basin. The
development plan for the construction of collector systems to drain these areas was
prepared in the early 1960s. The Kura River left bank collector system was completed
during the Soviet times.

2.21    Developments on the right bank started in the 1980s with 60 km of the Main Mil-
Mugan Collector completed before Independence and a further 52 km built during the
second part of the nineties with IsDB financing. This left a 31 km missing link and until
this would be completed, drainage waters from the Main Mil-Karabakh Collector
(MMKC) discharged into the Main Shirvan Collector on the left bank of the Kura River
by means of a siphon under the river. This often resulted in overload in the left-bank
drainage system, while some of the saline MMKC drainage water was released in the
Kura River during peak drainage periods. RIDIP provided the completion of this last,


10Compared to 6,500 m3/ha at the farm boundary estimated in the PAD.


                                                 30

critical link in the MMMC and completed the remaining section of the main collector
drain, provided the necessary road and rail bridges and aqueducts across it, as well as an
adjacent service road, and completed the siphon underpass for this drain beneath the Araz
River. Also included was the reconstruction and rehabilitation of inter-farm collectors
serving an area estimated at appraisal at 36,500 ha and design and supervision support
services. RIDIP did not finance irrigation infrastructure in the MMMC sub-project area,
except for a few short canal sections.

2.22     Following the detailed design assessment of the works to be undertaken, it was
found that by shortening the length of the MMMC by 3 km, considerable savings could
be achieved even though some land would have to be acquired. The land acquisition
arrangements for the revised alignment of the main collector was a time-consuming
process.11 Land values were set by GOA based on a number of factors (such as soil
quality and productivity, location, access to water) with compensation for private land
including the value of crops and fruits trees and other assets to be expropriated or
demolished. Municipalities were compensated at fixed land value rates and the final land
acquisition plan was approved by the Prime Minister on May 13, 2003. To facilitate
implementation of the MMMC and to ensure that delays or alterations on one contract did
not affect the other, some transfer of works was made from the second to the first
contract involving bridge construction and road surfacing..

2.23     To complement the main collector works, additional collectors with a length of
almost 72 km were rehabilitated and cleaned (see Table A2.5 below). Assessment of the
area benefiting from the drains during the M&E surveys carried out under RIDIP showed
that the original assessment of benefiting area did not include the former area of Vatan
Sovkhoz that covers about 3,000 ha. With the realignment and lowering of the drains in
this area, considerable benefits have already been achieved. The total benefiting area for
the drainage now stands at about 40,000 ha (about 10 percent over target). The
combination of MMMC and other drainage works has meant that the command area lying
in the flat low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyan plains can be more easily drained to
the desired level with the ground water table now being generally below 2 meters within
5 km from main drainage system. This is discussed further in the Annex on
environmental monitoring.




11Detailed field surveys identified a total of 509.5 ha of State, municipal and private land required for
  construction needs (19.2 ha of private land; 25.6 ha of municipal land; 464.7 ha of State land). The land
  and properties were expropriated in accordance with appropriate legislation and paid for by government
  in line with Bank guidelines and GOA procedures.


                                                      31

                      Table A2.5 - Details of MMMC Inter-farm Collectors

 Collector    Length                       Design Details                      Drainage area (ha)*

    No.        (km)       side slope      Bottom           Discharge
                                         width (m)     capacity (m3/sec)      Existing     Future

    K*         16.93          2:1            3.0            0.30-3.00          8,400       10,000
    K-1         15.6          2:1          2.5-6.0          3.40-7.00          14,600      25,000
   K-1-2        3.9          1.5:1          1.50            0.20-0.64          1,300        2,100
    K-2         9.0           2:1          2.0-4.0          1.50-2.39          5,100        8,000
   K 2-1        5.71         1.5:1          1.50              0.20              400          700
    K-3         13.2          2:1        1.50-2.50          0.79-3.40          7,100       11,300
    K-4         7.45         1.5:1          1.50              1.50             3,100        5,000
   Total       71.79                                                           40,000      62,100
 Note: * includes 2,000 ha of former Vatan Sovkhoz area in Sabirabad District.

(c) Consultancy Support and Contract Supervision

2.24    Extensive studies were carried out by a team of national and international
Consultants during project preparation with all of the main works for both parts of the
rehabilitation and completion of the I&D infrastructure identified and developed to
feasibility study level. To enable an immediate start to be made on the Samur Headworks
in the SAC area and the completion of the siphon under the Araz River in the MMMC
area after project effectiveness, bidding documents amounting to about US$10 million
were completed during preparation. The remaining works were designed and prepared
for tendering during implementation. The PIU engaged two groups of international and
local consultants to assist in this process. The first group provided direct support to the
PIU as part of a capacity building exercise to increase the PIU's ability to implement
projects and to check and oversee the design and construction supervision work. The
second group was involved in the preparation of detailed designs as well as the
preparation of technical specifications, engineering estimates, bill of quantities, tender
drawings, and the supervision of construction. In the beginning this did not proceed well
as the local design engineers were sometimes slow to accept changes and the quality of
some of the international consultants was below the expected standard, which led to their
replacement. Once these issues had been resolved the work preceded much more
smoothly with designs being completed to the required standard, as well as incorporating
new concepts into many hydraulic structures.

2.25    Contract management and construction standards were prepared for construction
supervision and PIU staff and local consultants were trained in their use. Again, initial
problems appeared but these were overcome through adjustments and discussions that
took place during supervision missions, with issues such as the level of responsibility
delegated to the supervision consultants being clearly defined. In the past, contractors
were not closely supervised and thus services provided in this respect by the consulting
team were invaluable. Quality control was enhanced and this is evidenced by the final
completed works, which are generally of good quality.

2.26    During implementation, two key areas required detailed examination and
evaluation. These related to the requirements for sediment removal at the Samur
Headworks and the justification for the enlargement of the SAC. These were carried out


                                                  32

under separate consultants' inputs and provided very useful advice that was utilized in the
final design of these components. In the design of the sediment removal facilities, it was
concluded that model studies would be needed in order to be certain on the most
economic size and performance of the proposed sediment basin. This delayed some of
the work, but produced a final product to international standards that functions as
designed.

2.27       Engineering Contracts. The details of the engineering contracts in both the SAC
area and MMMC given in Tables A2.6 and A2.7 below. The rehabilitation and
completion of SAC and MMMC were carried out through eight contracts (five and three
respectively), which was less than the 11 estimated at preparation, achieved by
combining certain works. All procurement was made under ICB with no prequalification.

                                                 Table A2.6 Details of SAC Contracts

                       Actually
 Package   Contract                                                                                                                                                                      Contract    Contract
           Number       spent            Description                                       Description of Works                                               Variations
                       (US$'000)                                                                                                                                                          Award     Completion

Samur-Apsheron Canal System (SAC)
Headworks CW-SAC-2/00     2,193.3 Rehabilitation of the SAC Reconstruction of the Sill and the Apron downstream of Samur Headworks           Additional works were agreed as a a          01-Feb-01  28.06.20041a
                                  Headworks and             Reconstruction of the Left Bank Protection downstream of Samur Headworks,        result of damage caused by 2002 spring
                                  Regulator                 Rehabilitation of the concrete surfaces of the Samur Headworks including the     flooding for the reconstruction of the

                                                            Samur  Derbend Canal Intake Siphon,                                             right bank dyke protection lining near the

                                                            Reconstruction of the Right Bank Protection downstream of the Samur              old sedimentation basin, the supply and

                                                            Reconstruction of the Apron of the Samur Headworks, L = 65m,                     installation of new modern, hydraulically

                                                            Construction of new Regulator for SAC and Khanarkh Canal,                        operated trashrack cleaning machine.

                                                            Replacement/refurbishment of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment of
Package 1 CW-SAC -02/0    2,771.3 The Interfarm Canals fed The completed works under this contract included rehabilitation of 24             Three Variation Orders were issued and       25-Mar-03  20.11.20042a
                                  by SAC along its initial  deteriorated secondary canals (97.1 km) and associated structures served by      this resulted in a contract extension of 4
                                  length till Gudyalchay    the initial 25 km section of the SAC main canal. The command area was 18,100 months.
                                  River and 3 Interfarm     ha. Some 189 gated cross flow regulators were installed on the secondary
                                  Canals fed by Khanarkh canals to regulate flow into the tertiary network, 262 flow measurement devices
                                  Canal in the same region (hydro-posts), 107 pipe crossing/bridges over interfarm canals and 11 special
                                                            structures. Saniiri flumes were introduced as measurement device as it is less
                                                            prone to silt accumulation than the proposed sharp crested weirs.

Package 2 CW-SAC -02/04  10,641.5 Sedimentation Basin &     Sedimentation Basin and associated works                                         4 Variation Orders were issued and the       24-Dec-04   30-Sep-06
                                  19 Interfarm Canals fed   Flushing Galleries and Right Bank Embankment                                     intended completion date was changed.
                                  by SAC between            Rehabilitation of Existing Khanarkh Canal Sluice Structure and Gates
                                  Gudyalchay River &        Electrical Sub Station
                                  Velvelichay River &
                                  Interfarm Canals fed by
Package 3 CW-SAC -01/0    6,111.4 Rehabilitation of SAC     Canal lining rehabilitation                                                      Additional structures were added             07-Oct-05   15-Jun-07
                                  Lining and Associated     Structures Rehabilitation                                                        following requests by water users/local
                                  Structures located along Pedestrian Bridges (15 Nos.); Drainage Culverts (8 Nos.); Pipe Conduits (19       population: automatic water level
                                  the First 27 km of its    Nos.): Old Khanarkh Canal Flume Aqueduct, crossing SAC at Pk 1+53; Chutes regulating structure at Pk 37+34 of SAC
                                  length                    (4 Nos.): HE Power Station Regulating Structure; Inverted Siphon at Pk 25+40;    for Gullar village, Gusar region, water
                                                            Aqueduct at Pk 25+40; Offtake Structures; Electrical installation; Service Road; offtake at Pk 225+70 of SAC for
                                                            Protection Zone.                                                                 Gochagly village, Khachmaz region. The
                                                                                                                                             long-crested regulating structure for the
                                                                                                                                             first was designed by PIU specialists
                                                                                                                                             utilising new ideas from USA.


Package 4 CW-SAC -01/0    4,506.1 Partial Increase of SAC   Canal lining rehabilitation and raising of Canal Banks; Rehabilitation of        Three Variation orders were issued, the      28-Mar-06   20-Jun-07
                                  Capacity and              St
                                                            Offtake Structures (21 Nos.) only partial rehabilitation of these structures was
                                                                 t                                                                           first in January 2007 corrected the
                                  Rehabilitation of its     carried out: the cabins were painted; the offtakes downstream of                 original Bill of Quantities. Variation Order
                                  Lining and Associated     Chagachugchay were raised in line with canal banks; some new transformers        No. 2 extended the intended Completion
                                  Structures located along  and electrical motors were supplied and installed, some power lines were         Date up to 20 June 2007. Variation
                                  the reach from km 27 to      l         i h                                                                 Order No. 3 was issued in June 2007
                                  km 50                     InverteddSiphons - new & rehabilitated Barrels (7 Nos.) and Inlets/Outlet        and cancelled the Rehabilitation Works
                                                            Wing/Retaining Walls and canal-transition Sections. Only minor joint sealing     for the existing Chagachugchay Inverted
                                                            rehabilitation works and mortaring with special material instead of shotcreting  Siphon Barrels except for the movement
                                                            was carried out at some of these Barrels.                                        joints and reduced some of the
                                                            Escape Structures; Pedestrian Bridges; Drainage Culverts; Pipe Conduits;         rehabilitation works for part of the
                                                            Flume Conduits; Aqueduct at Pk 25+40 ; Power Supply to Offtakes, Inverted        Offtakes Structures.
                                                            Siphon and Escape Gates; Service Road and Protection Zone.




                                                                                      33

                                                 Table A2.7 - Details of MMMC Contracts

                          Actually
 Package       Contract                                                                                                                                                              Contract    Contract
               Number       spent          Description                                      Description of Works                                             Variations
                          (US$'000)                                                                                                                                                   Award     Completion

Main Mil-Mughan Collector System
Completion CW-MMMC-          5,786.0 Completion of Main Mill  Completion of the excavation of the new channel bed,                                                                    19-Feb-01  05.10.20023a
of Main Mill 1/00                    Mugan Collector Sihpon Completion of reinforced concrete lining and the flexible mattresses protection of
Mugan                                on Araz River            Dykes,
Collector                                                     Shifting of the excavated material from new river channel to old river bed,
Sihpon                                                        Construction of the remaining part of old left dyke of channel,
                                                              Completion of new channel protection above MMMC Siphon
                                                              Completion of service bridge works
                                                              Relocation/reconstruction of the existing pump station.
Package 1   CW-MMMC-         5,198.9 Completion of Main Mil- New 8.5 km long Main Mill Mugan Collector Reach;                                 Additional works included 2.7 km        25-Apr-03  30.11.20044a
             02/02                   Mugan Collector in first Associated hydraulic structures and asphalt Service Road;                       Service Road along previously
                                     Reach. Approximately     Structures, which cross the Main Collector Reach;                               constructed Collector d/s of Araz
                                     8.5 km located upstream Railway bridge and associated track re-alignment,                                Siphon, Interfarm Irrigation Canals,
                                     of previously completed  Two road bridges and associated roadwork,                                       Road Bridge across Collector at Pk
                                     Araz Siphon.             Two aqueducts at the existing Irrigation Canals,                                1204+00 (transferred from Package 2).
                                                              Diversion of 330 KV and 110 KV electrical lines & low voltage electrical lines. In last VO, Service Road works (4,768

                                                              ~7 km lined irrigation canals, 9 km unlined catchment drains & associated       m) beyond the railway were deleted from

                                                              structures.                                                                     Package 1 and transferred to Package
                                                                                                                                              2
Package 2   CW-MMMC-         7,438.7 Completion of Main Mil- Unlined Main Drainage Canal, ~23 m bottom width & 5m to 10m deep;                                                        21-Dec-04   31-May-06
             01/04                   Mugan Collector for the  Associated structures and asphalt service road;
                                     Second (Last) Section,   Construction/Rehabilitation of Interfarm Drains & associated structures;
                                     19.5 km long, located    Construction of the following major structures; One double carriageway road
                                     upstream of previously   bridge and associated roadwork, Two single carriageway road bridges, Two
                                     completed Section and    aqueducts with pedestrian bridges; Relocation of 110 kV transmission line,
                                     reaching to Mil-Karabakh which crosses the MMMC alignment at PK 1281+00.
                                     Collector.



2.28           Operation and Maintenance Budgets. Government commitment to operation
and maintenance is evidenced by the 15 percent annual increase in allocations since 2004.
The budget used by the SAC Management comprises allocations from government
budget and from sales of water. Although SAC is not yet adequately compensated for the
water that it supplies, there is a positive trend.

                        Table A2.8 - Operation and Maintenance Allocations (2000-2007)
                                                                                (US$ million)

                                                       2000                 2001                2002                 2003                2004             2005                2006             2007
National Budget
Total O&M                                                   30.8               30.7                 38.7                43.7                 47.7              58.1               80.3         134.5
            Budget                                          29.8               29.5                 36.9                41.9                 45.3              55.9               77.4         131.3
            Fees                                             1.0                  1.2                 1.7                 1.9                2.3                2.2                2.8             3.2

Irrigation                                                  22.9               22.9                 32.4                36.1                 39.7              47.8               67.2         110.8
            Budget                                          21.9               21.7                 30.7                34.2                 37.4              45.6               64.3         107.6
            Fees                                             1.0                  1.2                 1.7                 1.9                2.3                2.2                2.8             3.2
Drainage                                                     3.8                  3.8                 4.4                 5.0                5.2                6.6                8.3           15.0

Project Systems


SAC System                                                   0.5                  0.6                 0.6                 1.5                1.7                2.0                2.4             2.6
            Budget                                           0.4                  0.4                 0.5                 1.2                1.2                1.3                1.4             1.6
            Fees                                             0.1                  0.1                 0.2                 0.2                0.6                0.7                1.0             1.1

MMMC Drain                                                   0.2                  0.3                 0.5                 0.3                0.3                0.4                0.5             0.5


Source: AIOSC, Finance Department, Baku, May 2007




Component 2: Institutional Strengthening

2.29           Institutional Support for SAC Management. TA was provided to review the
work practices, processes, and skills of the SAC Management and District Exploitation


                                                                                           34

Units, as well as the coordination between these different offices and water users.
Proposals to improve the management of the SAC system were prepared which were
accepted by AIOJSC. The findings have been useful in the formulation of a longer-term
policy for SAC management, but substantial changes in the management have not yet
taken place. It is observed, however, that SAC management is effectively carrying out
O&M to the best of its ability with plans in hand for the future O&M of the rehabilitated
and upgraded irrigation infrastructure. Changes will likely be introduced gradually and a
proposed Bank-funded irrigation project (FY09) is expected to assist GOA with this.

2.30    Irrigation Sub-sector Review. A team of national consultants supported by
international specialists carried out an irrigation sub-sector review. The study provided
the necessary basis to assist the GOA in the development of a longer-term strategy for the
I&D sub-sector in the country. This strategy is now available in draft form and is being
reviewed by relevant ministries and agencies. The study has already contributed to
greater investments being made by the GOA from its own resources and an increased
spending on the rehabilitation of on-farm I&D infrastructure.

2.31    SAC Expansion Feasibility Study. A comprehensive feasibility study to review
the technical, environmental, social, and economic viability of the expansion in capacity
of the SAC was successfully completed. The study recommended the expansion in its
capacity, which has a major bearing on long-term water resource development and
expenditure in the SAC area. As a result the capacity of the first 50 km of SAC was
reviewed and designs adjusted to increase the canal capacity up to 75 m3/s.

2.32    Training and Study Tour. Training and study tours were carried out covering a
wide range of topics. Some of this was directed at PIU staff to enable them to fulfill their
administrative and procurement functions according to World Bank guidelines and
standards, other training was aimed at illustrating the way other countries have
approached similar problems facing Azerbaijan. The study tours to UK, Turkey, France,
USA, and Mexico proved very beneficial in this respect. The study tours went beyond
the immediate project needs and also included study of successful Water Users
Associations (WUA). AIOJSC and PIU staff have been quick to understand the benefits
of well organized WUAs and this has assisted greatly in the implementation of the
ongoing IDSMIP.

2.33    The consultancy on flow measurement was successful in showing the technical
staff simpler and more cost-effective flow measurement structures that can be easily
operated and maintained by non-specialized staff such as WUAs. The adoption of these
structures throughout the SAC command area shows well the impact of this training
support. The more informal on-the-job training where national and international experts
work alongside each other has been successful in exposing all of the technical staff
involved on the GOA side as well as in the private sector (local consultants) to modern
and cost-effective engineering technologies. The training carried out under RIDIP
complemented well the various project activities and enabled staff in both the PIU and
the local consultancy firms to be more effective. All training and study tours are
summarized in Table A2.9 below.



                                              35

                                 Table A2.9 - Training and Study Tours


Contract Description      Services Actually                                  Comments on               Duration of Services

                              Provided              Target Group           Training/Services
                                                                                                    Start date      End date

Design and Supervision
Technical Assistance  Technical support for     PIU                   Effective support in the     13-Aug-01      31-Dec-04
                      implementation of all of                        preparation of RIDIP and
                      the project components                          implementation
                                                                      arrangements including
                                                                      technical, contract and
                                                                      general management and
                                                                      supporting services. These
                                                                      are now benefiting the
                                                                      subsequent IDSMIP.
Interim Consultant on Interim Consultant on     Supervision oversight Good performance and         23-May-01      31-Oct-01
Construction          Construction              and guidance for PIU  managed to get RIDIP off
Supervision           Supervision               supervisors           to a good start.
Design and            Detailed design of        Design assistance to  In general the overall       18-Jan-02      31-Oct-05
Supervision           RIDIP. To prepare the     local consultants to  performance was good, but
                      detailed designs for the  review and            it took time for the local
                      two project areas         modernize designs     design engineers to
Design and            Implementation design     and to incorporate    understand the new           21-Jan-02      30-Jun-07
Supervision           revisions and addenda,    new design            approaches and also for the
                      contract management       technologies and      Consultants to provide
                      and site supervision. To  approaches in the     suitable staff. There has
                      assist and guide the PIU  final designs. This   been a very positive
                      supervision staff in the  was followed by       change in attitude of the
                      site supervision          supervision oversight local engineers and site
                      activities.               and guidance for PIU  supervisors. The transfer of
                                                supervisors.          technology from the
                                                                      international to the local
                                                                      staff seems to have been
                                                                      good and is benefiting
                                                                      IDSMIP.
SAC Flow              Introduction of new and   PIU, local design     Well appreciated and the     13-Dec-04      28-Feb-05
Measurement           more appropriate          staff and O&M staff.  ideas, structures and
                      measuring devices                               approaches to
                                                                      measurement are now part
                                                                      of the PIU methodology.
Training
Training - Computer   Computer Courses          PIU and SAIA Staff    Assisted in the use of       21-Feb-05      31-Dec-05
Courses                                                               different software for
                                                                      project management and
                                                                      upgrade skills for a range
                                                                      of other software.
                                                                      Beneficial.
Overseas Study Tour   Water Safety Meeting      PIU Design Engineer   Useful insight into other    09-Feb-02      14-Feb-02
                      held in Zamora, Spain                           approaches and
                                                                      considerations
Model Simulation      Work on simulation of     PIU and Design        Very useful to be made       23-Oct-02      30-Oct-02
studies               the Sediment Basin on     Engineers             fully aware of the
                      Samur River in offices                          processes and findings.
                      of Specialized
                      Consultants
M & E Training        Overseas Training         M&E Specialist        Most useful in upgrading     16-Jun-03      11-Jul-03

                      course on M&E in                                skills and understanding of

                      Canada                                          requirements for M&E of
                                                                      RIDIP.
Local English         English language          PIU and SAIA Staff    Improved skills of all staff 04-Jul-03      31-Dec-03
Language Training     training                                                                     1-Nov-02       1-Jan-03
                                                                                                   13-May-02      23-May-02
Training -            Procurement and           PIU procurement and   Training courses were        17-Nov-03      28-Nov-03
procurement and       Financial management      financial             useful in understanding




                                                           36

 Contract Description    Services Actually                                Comments on             Duration of Services

                              Provided          Target Group           Training/Services
                                                                                               Start date      End date

 financial management according to WB         management staff    World Bank procedures etc   10-May-04      28-May-04
                      procedures in ITC of
                      ILO
 M & E Training       World Bank's Training   M&E Specialist      Most useful in upgrading    08-Sep-02      18-Sep-02
                      & Workshop "Good                            skills and understanding of
                      Practice in Monitoring,                     requirements for M&E on
                      Evaluation and                              RIDIP
                      Management
                      Information Systems for
                      Competitive Grant
                      Programs in ESA
                      countries
 WUA Study Tour for   Study tours to see WUA  PIU and SAIC staff  Staff of PIU and SAIC       2-Nov-03       20-Nov-03
 PIU and SAIC staff   and system operation in                     traveled to California,
                      countries where                             USA and Mexico to get
                      experiences would be of                     familiar with the
                      benefit to Azerbaijan                       establishment and
                                                                  operation of WUAs
 Study Tour for PIU   Study tours to get      PIU and SAIC staff  Staff of PIU and SAIC       6-Jul-03       21-Jul-03
 and SAIC staff       familiar with high                          staff traveled to UK and
                      technology approaches                       Turkey to get familiar with
                      to water management                         high technology
                      and construction                            approaches to water
                                                                  management and
                                                                  construction in UK and
                                                                  Turkey


Component 3: Project Implementation Support

2.35       The project support provided to the PIU enabled the staff to effectively support
the implementation of RIDIP. This was critical in the first years of RIDIP when the
national economy was still weak and staff insufficiently motivated. The TA team of
international specialists worked well with PIU staff and this TA support in project
preparation and implementation arrangements including technical, contract, and general
management and supporting services, was effective.

2.36       The training that was carried out in relation to the implementation of the
environment management plan (EMP) and the establishment of suitable measuring and
monitoring sites was successful in collecting adequate data that has enabled a valid
assessment to be made of the impact of RIDIP on Lake Sarisu and Devechi Lagoon (see
Annex 3). The provision of geographical information system (GIS) and the training of
PIU staff is benefiting not only RIDIP but also IDSMIP. The same is true for M&E. The
systems established and developed under RIDIP together with the training provided to the
M&E specialist in the PIU has meant that the basis has been laid for the collection of
reliable data on which project success can be evaluated.




                                                       37

Annex 3. Environmental Monitoring

3.1     Under the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP), monitoring was carried out at
Sarisu Lake in the MMMC command area and Devechi Lagoon in the SAC command
area. The planning and collection of data were subcontracted to local companies and
closely monitored by PIU. The monitoring sites were suitably sited within the existing
irrigated and cultivated areas of MMMC.

3.2     Both project sites contain protected zones that could have been influenced
negatively by the activities of RIDIP. In the SAC area the protected zone is Devechi
Lagoon and in MMMC there are Sarisu Lake and Ag-gol Lake that are hydraulically
connected. The latter was designated as a RAMSAR site in 1976. All lakes are shallow
reed reservoirs, utilized by migrating and non-migrating birds for dwelling and forage.
The potential negative impacts that were identified related to water quality and quantity
of the lakes, which in turn could lead to environmental changes that could negatively
affect the flora and fauna. Devechi Lagoon is located some 50 km east of the project area
(see Figure A3.1) and Lake Ag-gol some 30 km upstream from Lake Sarisu (see Figure
A3.2). It was therefore considered unlikely that negative effects would arise in these two
areas, but to confirm this, a monitoring program was implemented, not just for Sarisu
Lake that is located near the new MMMC, but for these two water bodies as well. This
also was extended to monitor the impact in the MMMC sub-project area on the overall
drainage in the agricultural areas.

3.3     Devechi Lagoon. According to the EMP, weekly monitoring of physical
parameters of water quality in Devechi Lagoon, such as water level, electric conductivity,
the amount of dissolved oxygen, pH, and temperature of water, was carried out. The
monitoring of water chemistry in the lake for 19 parameters, including the amount of
suspended sediments, chemical and biological dissolved oxygen, active ions, organic
compounds, presence of oil products, pesticides, phenols, microbiological pollution of
water was carried out twice a year (March, September). This monitoring continued for
two years and was completed in October 2004. The results showed that variations
resulting in Devechi Lagoon were typical for similar lakes that are fed by seasonal
intermittent rivers and that the implementation of RIDIP in the SAC command area had
no impact on the environmental situation in the Devechi Lagoon. This was also
confirmed by the Panel of National Experts in their final protocol.12

3.4     Sarisu Lake. Water quality and water levels were monitored in three locations
upstream and downstream of and in Lake Sarisu, and downstream of Lake Ag-Gol. In
addition to this, monitoring for fauna in general was carried out at both lakes once a year
in May and twice a year in April and October for the main species of migrating and non
migrating birds. Monitoring of ground water levels and water quality as well as soil
salinity were carried out twice a year in order to determine the impact of the construction
of the new drain on ground water levels.

12The Panel comprised specialists from the National Academy of Science, the Ministry of Ecology and
  Natural Resources, an Environmental Research Institute, and an Environmental NGO.


                                                  38

Figure A3.1 - Location of Devechi Lagoon in SAC Sub-project Area and
                           Monitoring Sites




Figure A3.2 - Location of Monitoring Sites in MMMC Sub-project Area




                                  39

3.5     Analysis of the data showed that although ground water levels have been lowered
in the existing and potential agricultural areas affected by the rehabilitated drains and the
construction of the new drain, there were no negative impacts on the environmental
situation in the two lakes. One of the reasons for this is that the drainage water deriving
from the south-west of Ag-gol Lake and draining into it is not affected by the
construction of the final section of MMMC. Ag-gol Lake therefore continued to supply
sufficient volumes of water to balance out any losses that have occurred as a result of the
construction of the MMMC that cut off part of the catchment area of Sarisu Lake. These
conclusions were confirmed by a Panel of National Experts that was set up to review the
data that was collected and the analysis that was made by the PIU and consultants.

3.6     In accordance with the EMP, monitoring of physical surface water indicators was
carried out starting from 2004 until project completion. The monitoring was carried out
using the same indicators as for Devechi Lagoon and in three locations:

     downstream of Ag-gol Lake where the outflows go to Sarisu Lake;
     upstream of Sarisu Lake, where flows from Ag-gol Lake discharge into Sarisu
        Lake; and
     downstream of Sarisu Lake, where excess water is discharged into the Kura River.

3.7     Chemical monitoring of lake water was carried out twice a year (March,
September) and once a year (October) in the coastal zone where the MMMC discharges
in the Caspian Sea as well as in a 0.5 km strip of the sea at the confluence of MMMC.
Monitoring of ground water level (twice a year) and quality (quarterly), as well as soil
salinity (twice a year) was carried out in order to determine the impact of construction of
the new collector on ground water levels in the project area. Observation wells were
installed during 2004 (see Figure A3.2) and these were situated along the main collector
and secondary drains, and in the agricultural area to the south, largely within 10 km of the
main drain. In addition, drainage water quality and soil salinization were monitored.

3.8     The results of the monitoring showed that the construction of MMMC and
rehabilitation of network of inter-farm collectors connecting to it had positive impact on
ground water level (Table A3.1), their mineralization, and the salinity of surrounding
soils (Table A3.2). Ground water levels within one km distance from the main collector
decreased on average by 90 cm, and at a distance between one and five km the levels
already went down by 37 cm on average.

3.9     The environmental monitoring program ended with project closure on June 30,
2007, but several aspects of the program will continue as the final impact of the
large-scale drainage works necessitate several complete seasons to be fully realized.
AIOJSC will take responsibility for this.




                                              40

                        Table A3.1  Ground Water Table (cm)

                    Baseline (Sept. 2004)          Current (Mar. 2007)
                                                                             Mean difference
                  min     max        mean       min      max        mean
  up to 1 km       30     340         165       72       568         255           90
    1-5 km         60     265         165       64       309         202           37
   5-10 km         48     272         153       48       318         155           2
 above 10 km       45     160         106        46      183         116           10

               Table A3.2  Water Mineralization and Soil Salinity (mg)

                              Baseline (Sept. 2004)        Current (Mar. 2007)      Mean
                             Min      max       mean     min      max      mean   difference
 Water Mineralization       6447      42447    14045    4112     27385     7580      6464
      Soil Salinity         4160      40620    16347    2270     13635     6343     10004

3.10    The trend in data since monitoring began shows improvement in all three main
indicators. The current depth to the water table is now 2.6 m and 2.0 m in the two
distance bands up to one km and between one and five km from the main collector drain,
respectively (Figure A3.3). Figures A3.4 and A3.5 show the overall impact in the before-
project and after-project situation, respectively. Similarly, water quality has improved
with a measurable reduction in the concentration of minerals. On average across all of
the wells, ground water mineralization has reduced by 6.4 gr/l from 14.0 gr/l to 7.6 gr/l,
and soil salinity reduced by 10 gr/l from 16.3 gr/l to 6.3 gr/l (see Table A3.2).

          Figure A3.3 - Ground Water Tables in Irrigated and Non-Irrigated Areas




                                              41

Figure A3.4 - Depth of Ground water: Before-Project Situation
       (The larger the circle, the deeper the water table)




Figure A3.5 - Depth of Ground water: After-Project Situation
       (The larger the circle, the deeper the water table)




                                42

3.11    Environmental monitoring in Sarisu and Ag-gol Lakes showed that the annual
seasonal variations in water levels in both lakes remained unaffected by construction of
the new drain, both during the construction period and since it became fully operational
at the start of the 2006 irrigation season. Based mainly on historical inflow and outflow
data and lake levels an initial water balance model was prepared. The information was
reviewed by the independent Panel of Experts that was set up with the purpose to provide
recommendations on mitigation measures, if required. After reviewing all available data
and intensive discussion with the PIU, the Panel came to the conclusion that any concrete
plan for mitigation measures would be premature. It seems that there is no obvious
impact of MMMC on Sarisu Lake as inflow continues to exceed the outflow and
evaporation, and the available facilities to regulate the outflow allow so far for a stable
water level in the lake. Close monitoring of the situation will continue until 2010 under
IDSMIP in order to ensure with full certainty that the main collector drain has no
negative impact on Sarisu Lake.




                                              43

Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

4.1 The PAD Economic and Financial Analysis

4.1.1 At appraisal the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for RIDIP was estimated at 19.9
percent (NPV = US$27.7 million) accruing from the following factors: (i) increase in
yields; (ii) cropping pattern conversion to higher-value crops; and (iii) prevention of the
future collapse of the irrigation facilities and subsequent decline in irrigable areas. The
SAC sub-project would also contribute with substantial benefits from securing the current
level of drinking water to Baku (40 percent of the current demand). The anticipated
increase in yields and conversion to higher-value crops would take place in full only after
11 to 13 years from completion. Separate ERR estimates at appraisal for SAC and
MMMC sub-projects were 23.3 and 16.4 percent, respectively (NPV = US$16.3 million
for SAC and US$11.4 million for MMMC).

4.2 The ICR Economic and Financial Analysis  Data

4.2.1 Based on the actual results being obtained by farmers in the project areas
according to the M&E Surveys (2002 Baseline, 2004 Survey, and the December 2006
Benchmark Survey Final Report13), new evaluation scenarios were built for the ICR's
Economic and Financial Analysis14. Results show that the overall ERR for RIDIP is
expected to reach 23.7 percent (NPV = US$66.6 million). The higher than expected
results stem mainly from earlier than expected increases in yields and cropping pattern
conversion to higher-value crops. ERR estimates for the SAC and MMMC sub-project
areas are 20.3 and 30.5 percent, respectively (NPV = US$33 million for SAC and
US$33.6 million for MMMC). SAC investments showed a lower than expected result
because: (i) the actual investment cost was around 40 percent higher than the PAD
estimate; (ii) no future collapse of the irrigation facilities and subsequent decline in
irrigable areas was considered in the without-project scenario; and (iii) no value was
attributed to the benefits from securing the current level of drinking water to Baku,
considering that this demand would prevail over the demand for irrigation, which means
that water for human consumption and the related benefits would be secured even
without RIDIP.15



13Surveys have been based on experimental (randomized trials) and longitudinal design. For the three
  surveys the same households have been studied. The sampling has been done in two steps: at first the
  settlements (villages) were randomly selected from the project/control areas and then households within
  them by the same simple random procedure. As a result, 60 settlements and 249 households have been
  chosen for SAC sub-project area while for MMMC sub-project area 34 settlements and 236 households
  were sampled.
14The scenarios were built using FARMOD software. The 2002 surveys' data helped to define the before-
  project situation and the 2006 surveys data for the with-project situation.
15As a conservative criterium in measuring benefits it was considered that irrigated areas would continue at
  the low level shown before the project. Even without the project, Baku and the Apsheron Peninsula
  would have their needs of water from the SAC secured as the demand for human and industrial
  consumption is prioritized over the demand for irrigated agriculture.


                                                     44

4.2.2 The ICR evaluation scenarios included: (i) the actual IDA-financed RIDIP;
(ii) the IsDB-financed Khanarkh Canal project investments; (iii) the O&M incremental
costs involved (in 2006 constant US dollars); (iv) the farmers' on-farm investments for
the expansion of fruit orchards; and (v) the expected benefits from the agricultural
production in the project area. The financial analysis (at market prices) allowed for
estimating the benefits obtained by farmers as water for irrigation is secured and
increased and/or their lands adequately drained. The economic analysis (using
conversion factors) measures the impact to be obtained by Azerbaijan's economy after all
costs and benefits are valued at their opportunity cost.

4.2.3 Rehabilitation of the SAC system (including 185.7 km from 42 SAC and
Khanarkh secondary canals) and improving the drainage conditions in the MMMC sub-
project area16, clearly led to the increased and improved performance of the irrigated
agriculture in the project command areas. These improved conditions in the irrigated
areas are confirmed both: (i) by AIOJSC statistics about irrigated areas in the project
raions (Khachmaz, Gusar, and Guba in the SAC sub-project area; and Saatli, Imishli and
Beylagan in the MMMC sub-project area); and (ii) by the data of the M&E Surveys.
Table A4.1 below shows the irrigated area according to the AIOJSC statistics.

       Table A4.1 - Area Irrigated in the SAC and MMMC Sub-project Raions (in ha)

 Description                                                  Year
                    1998       1999      2000        2001     2002        2003    2004      2005    2006
 SAC Area
 Khachmaz          30,060     30,385    30,242      38,411   41,055      44,843  50,286   50,283   50,186
 Gusar             16,059     17,478    17,800      17,628   18,050      29,396  29,398   29,398   29,398
 Guba               26,148    15,553    17,500      17,560   18,000      27,057  27,047   27,047   27,048
 Total SAC         72,267     63,416    65,542      73,599   77,105     101,296  106,731  106,728  106,632

 MMMC Area
 Saatli            51,746     43,484    46,581      46,578   42,204       48,371  48,020    47,529  47,572
 Imishli           45,798     31,369    41,658      38,030   31,702       44,125  44,126    43,946  44,187
 Beylagan          35,526     31,528    37,237      45,003   44,463       49,715  48,292    48,301  48,600
 Total MMMC        133,070    106,381   125,476    129,611   118,369    142,211  140,438  139,776  140,359


4.2.4 The irrigated area in the raions where the SAC sub-project area is located has
stabilized during the past three years (2004-2006) at an average level of about 107,000 ha,
while the mean for the previous years (1998-2002) was only about 70,000 ha. In the raions
where the MMMC sub-project is located the average irrigated area was about 140,000 ha
during the 2003-2006 period, 17 percent over the mean for 1999-2002 of 120,000 ha. Not
all irrigated lands are within the immediate sub-project areas and for the ICR impact
assessment, 63,900 ha and 40,000 ha in SAC and MMMC were considered respectively as
benefiting from the project's investments.

4.2.5 The key production indicators concerning irrigated cropped areas, and changing
cropping patterns and crop yields for both sub-project areas are summarized in the

16Completion of 28 km in the MMMC led to the improved performance of the irrigation and drainage
  systems at about 40,000 ha, about 10 percent over the PAD target of 36,500 ha.


                                                   45

following Table A4.2. Even though full impact is expected to show only after several more
years, it is clear that certain changes in the three indicators are already taking place as a
consequence of the project works. In SAC, new orchards that are being planted will
contribute substantially to the expected project impact. In MMMC, the leaching of salts
from the soils will continue during the next years, as a result of which an increase in
diversification of crops and land productivity is expected.

           Table A4.2 - Key Indicators for Sub-Project Areas in 2002, 2004 and 2006

                                                SAC                         MMMC

                                      2002      2004      2006      2002     2004     2006
Average Operational farm size   Ha    2.05      2.65      2.71      3.7       3.7      3.5
Operational area without fallow Ha    1.82      2.28      2.37      2.74     3.34     3.24
Cropping Pattern
Cereals                          %    80.5      51.3      48.9      26.4     21.6     25.5
Cotton                           %     -          -         -       4.5       4.6      5.5
Vegetables                       %     0.5       1.8      3.3       1.2       2.6      5.0
Fodder crops                     %     0.5      17.8      19.1      42.0     61.0     56.7
Apple                            %     7.3      15.5      16.5       -        -
Fallow                           %    11.2      13.7      12.6      25.9      9.7      7.3
Crop yields
Cereals                        ton/ha  2.2       1.7      2..35     2.07      2.1      2.3
Cotton                         ton/ha  -          -                 1.5       1.7      1.7
Vegetables                     ton/ha 12.0      14.7      16.3      10.0     11.0     11.2
Fodder crops                   ton/ha  3.8       4.8      4.9       4.2       3.9      5.3
Apple                          ton/ha  3.5       9.2      6.3        -        -


4.2.5 According to the M&E survey data, the increased security from irrigation or
drainage has allowed for increasing the average cropped area by farm unit by about 30
and 19.3 percent in the SAC and MMMC sub-project areas, respectively, between 2002
and 2006. Also, as shown in the above table, the cropping pattern is changing to higher
value crops, such as fruits and vegetables (in SAC) and fodder crops (in MMMC) more
sharply than envisaged in the PAD. In the SAC area the share of cereals in the cropping
pattern decreased from 80 to 49 percent between 2002 and 2006, being replaced by fruits,
vegetables and fodder crops. In the MMMC sub-project area the share of cereals is being
maintained, but other crops are increasing at the expense of fallow areas: cotton from 4.5
to 5.5 percent; vegetables from 1.2 to 5 percent, and fodder crops from 42 to 56.7 percent.
Even though the trend is expected to continue, for the sake of this assessment, the
existing new cropping pattern was frozen at the 2006 crops share.

4.2.6 The yields of cereals in the SAC area have increased so far only by 5 percent,
from 2.15 ton/ha in 2002 to 2.25 ton/ha between 2002 and 2006. Survey data show a
considerable increase of fruits, vegetables, and fodder crops yields in the SAC sub-
project area: average apple yields taken as representative of fruit crops, grew from 3.5 to
6.3 ton/ha; vegetables from 12 to 16.3 ton/ha; and fodder crops from 3.8 to 4.9 ton/ha.
Yields of these crops increased only slightly in SAC control areas due to some
improvements in agricultural management, but not a more secure water supply and



                                                46

distribution. Crop yields in the MMMC sub-project area are showing similar trends. The
yields of cereals increased from 2.1 to 2.3 t/ha; cotton yields from 1.5 to 1.7 ton/ha;
fodder crops from 10 to 11.2 ton/ha; and vegetables from 4.2 to 5.3 ton/ha. Yields in the
MMMC control areas were significantly lower than in the project area in 2006: 1.9 ton/ha,
1.5 ton/ha, 5.5 ton/ha, and 3.8 ton/ha for cereals, cotton, fodder crops and vegetables,
respectively. The surveys also showed that farmers in both areas are using little
fertilizers, but do use on-farm produced manure. Fertilizers were either not available
from local supplies or were expensive for farmers that have poor access to formal credit.

4.2.7 The above-mentioned results are confirmed by the 2004 and 2006 surveys'
qualitative assessment of customer satisfaction. Between 2004 and 2006 the fully
satisfied farmer respondents grew from 16.3 to 54.3 percent while those partially satisfied
reduced from 61.3 to 44.1 percent. The percentage of dissatisfied farmers has reduced
from 22.4 to 10.2 percent.

4.3 The ICR Financial Analysis

4.3.1 Crop and farm models were budgeted based on the surveys' data summarized
above for both regions, considering 2002 and 2006 average parameters. The expected
yields in the future for the with-project scenario were allowed for small further
increments (about 10 percent additional increment to the increases already observed
between 2002 and 2006). For the production costs, inputs actually used for each crop
were also considered. Output values and production costs were estimated using actual
2006 market values for the major crops. It was confirmed that the 2006 market values
received by farmers are in line with the actual international prices in that year, and with
the border prices derived from them.

4.3.2 The following Table A4.3 summarizes the parameters for the main crop models
used for the assessment, including yields, gross value of production and costs of
producing each crop or activity, and the expected corresponding average net revenue per
ha (in the case of crops) or per farm (in the case of livestock production). For the SAC
area, cereals (being represented by wheat), fruits (represented by apples), fodder (alfalfa),
vegetables (tomato), and livestock activities (cow and sheep/goat meat and milk; hides;
poultry meat and eggs) were modeled. In the case of the MMMC sub-project area,
cereals, cotton, fodder, and vegetable crops, and livestock activities were the basic
production activities modeled.




                                              47

Table A4.3 - Crop Model: Relevant Production and Input Parameters and Financial Results

                                                       SAC                   MMMC
                             Unit     Value   Without-      With-     Without-     With-
                                      (US$)    project      project    project     project
YIELDS
   Wheat                      ton                2.15        2.8         2.1         3
   Fruits (existing Apple)    ton                3.5         6.4          -          -
   Fruits (new Apple)         ton                 -          6.4          -          -
   Cotton                     ton                 -           -          1.4         2
   Fodder                     ton                3.8          5          4.2         6
   Vegetables                 ton                 12          18         10          14
   Livestock (milk)            lts               868        1000        2500       3000
VALUE OF PRODUCTS
   Wheat                    US$/ton    207      462.6       603.1       452.2      646.2
   Fruits (existing Apple)  US$/ton    345     1207.5       2208          -          -
   Fruits (new Apple)       US$/ton    345        -         2208          -          -
   Cotton                   US$/ton    310        -           -          434        620
   Fodder                   US$/ton     81      307.8        405        340.2       486
   Vegetables               US$/ton    163     2003.6       2997       1667.8      2334.5
   Livestock (all)          US$/ton    0.32    2079.1       2253.8     4751.3      6000.8
COST OF PRODUCTION
   Wheat                    US$/ha              322.6       322.6       319.8      324.4
   Fruits (existing Apple)  US$/ha              277.2       420.7         -          -
   Fruits (new Apple)       US$/ha                -         420.7         -          -
   Cotton                   US$/ha                -           -         460.7      488.1
   Fodder                   US$/ha              305.6       321.7       294.7      314.1
   Vegetables               US$/ha              864.6       1034.1      788.6      952.6
   Livestock (all)          US$/farm            253.9       309.6       923.7      1179.5
NET REVENUES
   Wheat                    US$/ha               140        280.5       132.4      321.8
   Fruits (existing Apple)  US$/ha              930.3       1787.3        -          -
   Fruits (new Apple)       US$/ha                -         1787.3        -          -
   Cotton                   US$/ha                -           -         -26.7      131.9
   Fodder                   US$/ha               2.2         83.1       45.5       172.9
   Vegetables               US$/ha              1139        1962.9      879.2      1381.9
   Livestock (all)          US$/farm           1825.2       1944.3     3827.6      4821.3

4.3.3 Tables A4.4 and A4.5 show the results of modeling the typical farms in the SAC
and MMMC irrigated areas, considering the average evolution of the cropping patterns in
both areas. On-farm use of intermediate products (mainly fodder and manure), off-farm
employment (according to the survey responses), on-farm production investments
(installation of new orchards), and family benefits are estimated before family labor use
and its cost.




                                            48

              Table A4.4  Financial Budget for the typical SAC Farm Model (in US$)

                                             Without-
 CONCEPT (AGGREGATED DATA)                   Project                 With-Project
            Year after works are finished):  1 to 15    1     2     3     4       5     6    10
   Main Production
      Cereals                                     935   935   997 1,043   956     869   782   696
      Fruits                                      242   242   345   483   566     690   856 1,559
      Fodder                                       40    40    84   143   189     235   281   278
      Vegetables                                   20   20    73   147    205    264    293   293
      Livestock Products                        2,079 2,079 2,166 2,254 2,254   2,254 2,254 2,254
   Sub-total Main Production                    3,315 3,315 3,666 4,069 4,170   4,313 4,466 5,080
   On-Farm Use
      Fodder                                       19    19    30    37    37      37    37    37
      Livestock Products                           10   10    10    11     11      11    11    11
   Sub-Total On-Farm Use                           29    29    40    48    48      48    48    48
   Net Value Of Production                      3,286 3,286 3,626 4,022 4,122   4,265 4,418 5,032
   Off Farm Employment
      Labor Costs                                 185   185   185   185   185     185   185   185
      INFLOWS                                   3,471 3,471 3,811 4,206 4,307   4,449 4,603 5,216
   Production Cost
      Investment
         Seeds                                      -   158   166   166   166     166     8     -
         Chemicals                                  -   12    27    45     45      45    33     -
         Machinery (including fuel)                 -     6     7     8     8       8     3     -
         Transport Costs                            -     1     2     4     4       4     2     -
         Irrigation Costs                           -     0     1     1     1       1     1     -
      Sub-total Investment Costs                    -   177   203   224   224     224    47     -
      Operating
         Seeds                                    170   170   168   167   166     164   162   150
         Fodder                                     3     3     -     -     -       -     -     -
         Fertilizers                               39   39    37    35     34     32     29    27
         Chemicals                                 54   54    52    51     70      89   107   145
         Machinery (including fuel)               253   253   256   260   268     275   282   270
         Livestock Products                        41   43    43    43     44     45    44     40
         Transport Costs                           29    29    29    29    31      33    35    40
         Irrigation Costs                           7     7     8     8     9       9    10    10
         Livestock Inputs                          48   48    68    88     88      88    88    88
      Sub-total Operating Costs                   644   645   661   682   708     735   757   770
   Sub-Total Production Cost                      644   823   864   906   932     959   803   770
      OUTFLOWS                                    644   823   864   906   932     959   803   770
   Cash Flow Before Self Financing              2,827 2,648 2,947 3,300 3,375   3,490 3,800 4,446
   Net Financing                                    -   -41   -42   -26   -27     156    41     -
   Cash Flow After Self Financing               2,827 2,606 2,904 3,274 3,348   3,646 3,840 4,446
   Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                    - -179      -     -     -       -     -     -
   Farm Family Benefits                         2,827 2,427 2,904 3,274 3,348   3,646 3,840 4,446


4.3.4 Farm family benefits in the SAC irrigated command area are expected to increase
by 57 percent from the annual equivalent of US$2,827 to US$4,446 once the new
orchards and other more intensive crops are in full production. Considering the average
family size of 5.9 persons in the SAC area, the daily per capita income would be
increased from US$1.31 to US$2.06, which is definitively contributing to poverty
alleviation of the average rural family in the SAC area.




                                                  49

                 Table A4.5  Financial Budget for the typical MMMC Farm (in US$)

                                                  Without-
                                                   Project              With-Project
                                                   1 to 15     1     2       3       4    5 to 15
    Main Production
      Cereals                                           445     445   511    580      580    580
      Industrial Crops                                   74      74    84    107      119    124
      Fodder                                            496     496   627    772      831    887
      Vegetables                                         78     78   196     352      469    587
      Livestock Products                              4,751   4,751 5,029  5,723    6,001  6,001
    Sub-total Main Production                         5,845   5,845 6,447  7,534    8,001  8,178
    On-Farm Use
      Fodder                                            343     343   371    430      455    457
      Livestock Products                                 22     22    23      26      28       28
    Sub-Total On-Farm Use                               365     365   394    457      482    485
    Net Value Of Production                           5,479   5,479 6,053  7,078    7,518  7,693
    Off Farm Employment
      Labor Costs                                       185     185   185    185      185    185
      INFLOWS                                         5,664   5,664 6,238  7,262    7,703  7,878
    Production Cost
      Seeds                                             197     197   212    226      241    256
      Fodder                                            247     247   260    300      316    314
      Fertilizers                                        24     24    26      29      32       34
      Chemicals                                          35     35    39      43       47      51
      Machinery (including fuel)                        410     410   438    465      493    519
      Livestock Products                                 22     22    24      24      26       29
      Transport Costs                                    29      29    34     41       43      46
      Irrigation Costs                                   13      13    14     15       17      18
      Livestock Inputs                                  129    129   145     187      203    203
    Sub-Total Production Cost                         1,105   1,105 1,192  1,330    1,418  1,468
      OUTFLOWS                                        1,105   1,105 1,192  1,330    1,418  1,468
    Cash Flow Before Financing                        4,559   4,559 5,046  5,932    6,285  6,410
    Net Financing                                         -     -87  -138    -87      -50       -
    Cash Flow After Financing                         4,559   4,472 4,908  5,844    6,235  6,410


4.3.5 Farm family benefits in the MMMC irrigated command area are expected to be
increased by 40.6 percent from the annual equivalent of US$4,559 to US$6,410 as the
new drainage system allows for soils to be leached from excessive salts. Considering the
average family size of 5.7 persons per family in the MMMC sub-project area, the per
capita daily income would increase from US$2.19 to $3.08.

4.4 The ICR Economic Analysis

4.4.1 For the economic analysis, all project costs including construction, rehabilitation,
and O&M were included in the corresponding year in which they were or are to be
incurred, inflated in the case of 2001  2005, with the Manufactures Unit Value Index
(MUV) to express all costs in 2006 values. The O&M costs were introduced based on
historical O&M costs and reasonable estimations for the O&M costs for the new
structures. No adjustment was considered for these costs to converting them to economic
values since all project costs were exempt from taxes, including those incurred by the
project-financed private contractors. Azerbaijan's economy is considered to be widely
open and market prices are well aligned with international prices of most tradable goods



                                             50

and services. The only exception was for livestock products for which a conversion
factor of 0.8 was applied since these products pay a Value Added Tax of 18 percent in
addition to small custom taxes applied over imports.

4.4.2 Benefits have been estimated in Tables A4.6, A4.7 and A4.8. It can be seen that
the overall output production of vegetables, fruits, cotton, and fodder crops is increasing
while wheat and other extensive crops decrease. Labor use is also increasing by 49
percent as the new crops reach full production.

                 Table A4.6  Project Summary  Production and Inputs (in units)

                                   Without-
                                    Project                      With-Project
                          Unit     2001/15      2001/04      2007           2012         2015
Main Production
   Wheat                  MT           126,012     126,012     140,143         106,400     106,400
   Apple                  MT            16,030     16,030      27,938          78,089     106,531
   Cotton                 MT             2,504       2,504       3,093          4,208       4,208
   Alfalfa                MT            62,833      62,833     104,215         179,160     179,160
   Tomato                 MT             7,798       7,798     31,640          79,092      79,092
   Milk                    kg       46,177,200  46,177,200  50,568,850     54,460,000   54,460,000
   Meat (cow)              kg       12,173,300  12,173,300  12,522,170     13,067,500   13,067,500
   Hides                  unit         214,120     214,120     251,010         308,800     308,800
   Meat (sheep/goat)       kg        2,075,000   2,075,000   2,747,890       3,440,800   3,440,800
   Wool (sheep/goat)       kg          354,600     354,600     425,680         514,260     514,260
   Poultry                 kg        1,238,980   1,238,980   1,345,555       1,444,440   1,444,440
   Eggs                 ten units   33,503,200  33,503,200  36,421,040     39,360,000   39,360,000
On-Farm Use
   Alfalfa                MT            42,950      42,950      49,326         57,223      57,223
Sales
   Wheat                  MT           126,012     126,012     140,143         106,400     106,400
   Apple                  MT            16,030     16,030      27,938          78,089     106,531
   Cotton                 MT             2,504       2,504       3,093          4,208       4,208
   Alfalfa                MT            19,883      19,883      54,890         121,937     121,937
   Tomato                 MT             7,798       7,798     31,640          79,092      79,092
   Milk                    kg       46,177,200  46,177,200  50,568,850     54,460,000   54,460,000
   Meat (cow)              kg       12,173,300  12,173,300  12,522,170     13,067,500   13,067,500
   Hides                  unit         214,120     214,120     251,010         308,800     308,800
   Meat (sheep/goat)       kg        2,075,000   2,075,000   2,747,890       3,440,800   3,440,800
   Wool (sheep/goat)       kg          354,600     354,600     425,680         514,260     514,260
   Poultry                 kg        1,238,980   1,238,980   1,345,555       1,444,440   1,444,440
   Eggs                 ten units   33,503,200  33,503,200  36,421,040     39,360,000   39,360,000
Operating
   Purchased Inputs
      Straw               MT           370,599     370,599     408,831         471,717     471,717
      Nitrate              kg        1,948,468   1,948,468   1,932,844       1,758,240   1,758,240
      TSP                  kg        3,049,132   3,049,132   2,922,916       2,434,080   2,434,080
      Chemicals        lump sum      1,595,418   1,595,418   1,593,373       3,637,209   3,850,522
      Transport Costs  lump sum        969,403     969,403   1,047,934       1,324,808   1,390,760
      Irrigation       lump sum        305,751    305,751      333,562        410,125     412,722
      Feed                 kg        6,113,240   6,113,240   7,434,805       8,645,600   8,645,600
      Barley               kg        8,749,280   8,749,280  11,725,175     14,345,000   14,345,000
      Hay                  kg       10,289,000  10,289,000  15,648,125     18,381,000   18,381,000
   Labor
      Family Labor     person/day    2,750,289   2,750,289   3,129,734       4,008,142   4,109,474




                                               51

               Table A4.7  SAC Sub-project Model  Economic Budget (in US$'000)

                                Without-
                                Project                               With-Project
                                1 to 15   1      2      3      4      5        6     7      8      12
Main Production
  Cereals                        21,402  21,402 21,402 21,402 21,402 21,402  22,189 23,414 22,796 15,927
  Fruits                           5,530  5,530  5,530  5,530  5,530  5,530   6,834  9,639 12,104 26,941
  Fodder                             923    923    923    923    923    923   1,479  2,667  3,851  6,355
  Vegetables                         448    448    448    448    448    448   1,125  2,604  4,099  6,719
  Livestock Products             38,090  38,090 38,090 38,090 38,090 38,090  38,970 40,570 41,290 41,290
Sub-total Main Production        66,393  66,393 66,393 66,393 66,393 66,393  70,596 78,893 84,139 97,232
On-Farm Use
  Fodder                             439    439    439    439    439    439     572    771    845    845
  Livestock Products                 181    181    181    181    181    181     187    197    202    202
Sub-Total On-Farm Use                621   621    621    621    621    621      758   968   1,047  1,047
Net Value Of Production          65,773  65,773 65,773 65,773 65,773 65,773  69,838 77,925 83,092 96,185
Production Cost
  Investment
          Seeds                        -      -      -      -      -  1,995   3,727  3,809  3,809      -
          Chemicals                    -      -      -      -      -    151     464    845  1,031    185
          Machinery (including
          fuel)                        -      -      -      -      -     70     144    175    190     14
          Transport Costs              -      -      -      -      -     15      43     70     82     12
          Irrigation Costs             -      -      -      -      -      3       9     15     17      3
      Sub-Total Purchased
      Inputs                           -      -      -      -      -  2,234   4,386  4,914  5,129    215
          Labor Costs                  -      -      -      -      -    155     344    456    507     51
  Sub-total Investment Costs           -      -      -      -      -  2,389   4,730  5,370  5,636    265
  Operating
          Seeds                    3,892  3,892  3,892  3,892  3,892  3,892   3,868  3,833  3,805  3,433
          Fodder                      59     59     59     59     59     59      27      -      -      -
          Fertilizers                895    895    895    895    895    895     872    830    788    611
          Chemicals                1,232  1,232  1,232  1,232  1,232  1,232   1,212  1,175  1,399  3,105
          Machinery (including
          fuel)                    5,794  5,794  5,794  5,794  5,794  5,794   5,830  5,917  6,058  6,160
          Livestock Products         752    752    752    752    752    772     789    794    805    740
          Transport Costs            667    667    667    667    667    667     664    667    687    841
          Irrigation Costs           166   166    166    166    166    166      170   179    191     224
          Livestock Inputs         1,090  1,090  1,090  1,090  1,090  1,090   1,346  1,811  2,020  2,020
      Sub-Total Purchased
      Inputs                     14,548  14,548 14,548 14,548 14,548 14,568  14,779 15,205 15,752 17,133
      Labor                        7,463  7,463  7,463  7,463  7,463  7,463   7,772  8,386  8,985 10,861
  Sub-total Operating Costs      22,012  22,012 22,012 22,012 22,012 22,032  22,550 23,592 24,736 27,994
Sub-Total Production Cost        22,012  22,012 22,012 22,012 22,012 24,420  27,280 28,962 30,372 28,260
Other Costs
  SAC
  Rehabilitation/Construction
  Works                                -  1,398   811   1,523  2,948  6,732   7,604  7,721      -      -
  Khanarkh Canal (IsDB-
  financed)                            -  2,594  5,347  5,065  5,149  4,761   1,737      -      -      -
  Institutional Strengthening          -  1,010  1,202    738   771    345    3,045   207       -      -
  Desilting (Cleaning &
  Disposal)                        1,660    500    500    500    500    500     500    500    500    500
  O&M Electricity Costs              500    500    500    500    500    500   1,000  1,300  1,300  1,300
  Other O&M Costs                    300    300    300    300    300    300     600    800    800    800
Sub-Total Other Costs              2,460  6,302  8,660  8,626 10,168 13,138  14,486 10,528  2,600  2,600
  OUTFLOWS                       24,472  28,314 30,672 30,638 32,180 37,558  41,766 39,490 32,972 30,860
Cash Flow                        41,301  37,459 35,101 35,135 33,593 28,214  28,072 38,435 50,120 65,326

IRR = 20.3%, NPV = 33,037.94




                                                 52

          Table A4.8  MMMC Sub-project Model  Economic Budget (in US$'000)

                               Without-
                               Project                        With-Project
                               1 to 15    1      2      3      4       5      6      7      8     12

Main Production
  Cereals                         4,682  4,682  4,682  4,682  4,682   4,682  4,892  5,595  6,097  6,097
  Industrial Crops                  776    776    776    776    776     776    809    959  1,167  1,304
  Fodder                          5,223  5,223  5,223  5,223  5,223   5,223  5,638  7,058  8,312  9,327
  Vegetables                        823    823    823    823    823     823  1,195  2,554  4,076  6,173
  Livestock Products            39,987  39,987 39,987 39,987 39,987  39,987 40,691 44,085 48,870 50,503
Sub-total Main Production       51,491  51,491 51,491 51,491 51,491  51,491 53,225 60,251 68,521 73,405
On-Farm Use
  Fodder                          3,613  3,613  3,613  3,613  3,613   3,613  3,699  4,090  4,605  4,811
  Livestock Products                185    185    185    185    185     185    188    203    224    231
Sub-Total On-Farm Use             3,798  3,798  3,798  3,798  3,798   3,798  3,888  4,293  4,830  5,042
Net Value Of Production         47,694  47,694 47,694 47,694 47,694  47,694 49,338 55,958 63,692 68,363
Production Cost
  Purchased Inputs
      Seeds                       2,069  2,069  2,069  2,069  2,069   2,069  2,117  2,273  2,429  2,688
      Fodder                      2,594  2,594  2,594  2,594  2,594   2,594  2,637  2,862  3,208  3,302
      Fertilizers                   254    254    254    254    254     254    261    287    314    353
      Chemicals                     363    363    363    363    363     363    376    418    460    532
      Machinery (including
      fuel)                       4,314  4,314  4,314  4,314  4,314   4,314  4,402  4,692  4,982  5,456
      Livestock Products            187    187    187    187    187     187    192    203    208    243
      Transport Costs               303    303    303    303    303     303    320    381    435    484
      Irrigation Costs              139   139    139    139    139      139   143    155    166    186
      Livestock Inputs            1,354  1,354  1,354  1,354  1,354   1,354  1,407  1,660  2,017  2,139
  Sub-Total Purchased
  Inputs                        11,578  11,578 11,578 11,578 11,578  11,578 11,854 12,930 14,220 15,383
  Labor
      Labor Costs                 3,813  3,813  3,813  3,813  3,813   3,813  3,952  4,446  4,952  5,573
Sub-Total Production Cost       15,391  15,391 15,391 15,391 15,391  15,391 15,806 17,375 19,173 20,955
Other Costs
  MMMC Works                          -  3,837  2,237  2,185  3,140   5,589  2,835      -      -      -
  Institutional Strengthening       545    669    795    489    511     228   202    137       -      -
  O&M Costs                         600    600    600    600    600     600    600    600    900    900
Sub-Total Other Costs             1,145  5,106  3,632  3,274  4,251   6,417  3,637   737    900    900
  OUTFLOWS                      16,536  20,497 19,023 18,665 19,642  21,808 19,442 18,112 20,073 21,855
Cash Flow                       31,158  27,197 28,671 29,029 28,052  25,886 29,895 37,845 43,619 46,507

IRR = 30.5%, NPV = 33,580.08


 The overall ERR including SAC and MMMC sub-projects is expected to reach 23.7
 percent and the NPV = US$66.6 million.




                                                 53

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title              Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Joop Stoutjesdijk        Lead Irrigation Engineer                 TTL and
                         (TTL from October 1999)           ECSSD  Engineering

Thirumangalam Sampath    Task Team Leader                         TTL and
                         (until October 1999)              ECSSD  Agriculture
Toru Konishi             Senior Economist                  ECSSD Economy
Janakiram Subramaniam    Financial Specialist               ECSPS Financial Mngmt.
Naushad Khan             Procurement Specialist             ECSPS Procurement
Ranjan Ganguli           Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS Financial Mngmt..
Rufiz Chirag-Zade        Operations Officer                ECSSD Processing
Dilek Barlas             Legal Counsel                     LEGEC Legal
Hannah Koilpillai        Disbursement Officer               LOA   Disbursement
Neal Mountstephens       Irrigation Specialist              FAO   Engineering
Nirmala Saraswat         Environment Specialist            ECSSD Environment
Stanley Peabody          Social Scientist                  ECSSD Social issues
Supervision/ICR

Joop Stoutjesdijk        Lead Irrigation Engineer (TTL)    ECSSD TTL and
                                                                 Engineering

Lynette Alemar           Senior Program Assistant          ECSSD Processing and
                                                                 support
Elmas Arisoy             Senior Procurement Spec.          EAPCO Procurement
Rufiz Vakhid Chirag-Zade Senior Operations Officer         ECSSD Operations
Timothy Robert Jackson   Consultant                        ECSSD Engineering
Zeynep Lalik Mete        Extended Term Consultant          ECSPS Financial Mngmt.
Ida N. Muhoho            Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS Financial Mngmt.
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                        ECSSD Social issues

Hiwote Tadesse           Senior Program Assistant          ECSSD Processing and
                                                                 support
Yingwei Wu               Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS Procurement




                                          54

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                            6.96
  FY94                                                           11.68
  FY95                                                           31.47
  FY96                                                            8.44
  FY97                                                           12.32
  FY98                                                           17.77
  FY99                                                           67.27
  FY00                                                          191.66
                        Total:         58                       347.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                 28                        87.36
  FY02                                 20                        82.41
  FY03                                 12                        51.16
  FY04                                 13                        79.77
  FY05                                 13                        65.96
  FY06                                 10                        63.49
  FY07                                   6                       46.21
  FY08                                   4                       23.85
                        Total:        106                       500.21




                                    55

Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

6.1     The implementing agency has been measuring the initial impact of the project
through a baseline survey in 2002 and two follow-up impact studies in 2004 and 2006. In
general, both the baseline survey and the impact studies addressed the project needs and
provided information relevant to key project impact indicators. As explained below and
also in Annex 4, RIDIP already started yielding benefits in the areas that benefited from
the rehabilitation and construction works that were completed during early project years.
Nevertheless, it will take several more years before some of the indicators  such as
system conveyance and distribution efficiencies, optimum water deliveries, and yields 
can be fully measured. Some of this work will continue under IDSMIP.

6.2     Irrigated Areas. The project target was to irrigate annually 69,000 ha in the
immediate SAC sub-project area and 36,500 ha in the MMMC sub-project area. The
impact study results given in Table A6.1 show an increase in the agricultural production
area, partially through improved water supply and partially through solving of drainage
problems. The data shows an increase in irrigated area in the SAC area, as expected with
better water abstraction and supply, while the data in MMMC remains more or less
constant. Unfortunately the final impact survey presented the total irrigated area at the
raion level, which makes it difficult to see the changes in the immediate project areas.
Based on information obtained from AIOJSC, similar trends in increased irrigated areas
were observed in the immediate sub-project areas.

                Table A6.1 - Annually area irrigated in the project raions (ha)

                                Without
                                Project                     With Project
 Sub-project      Settlements     2001       2002      2003      2004      2005    2006
 SAC             Khachmaz          38,411     41,055   44,843    50,286    50,283  50,186
 SAC             Gusar             17,628     18,050   29,396    29,398    29,398  29,398
 SAC             Guba              17,560     18,000   27,057    27,047    27,047  27,048
 Sub-total                         73,599     77,105  101,296   106,731   106,728 106,632
 MMMC            Saatli            46,578     42,204   48,371    48,020    47,529  47,572
 MMMC            Imishli           38,030     31,702   44,125    44,126    43,946  44,187
 MMMC            Beylagan          45,003     44,463   49,715    48,292    48,301  48,600
 Sub-total                       129,611     118,369  142,211   140,438   139,776 140,359
 Total:                          203,210     195,474  243,507   247,169   246,504 246,991




                                              56

                            Figure A6.1 - Irrigated area by year (ha)

                   Settlements (All)
                                                        Scenario
                                                          with project        without project


                             Sum of Irrigated area, ha
                    140,000
                    120,000
                    100,000
                     80,000
                     60,000
                     40,000
                     20,000
                          0

                                1998 1999 2000 2001 2002  2003 2004  2005 2006 1998  1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
                                               MMMC                                                SAC

                                                                   Sub-project Year


6.3      Cropping Patterns and Yields. RIDIP is already showing some benefits related
to: (i) increased water supply; and (ii) area returned to agricultural production. It is still
too early to expect the full benefits in terms of increased yields and cropping patterns.
However, some changes can already be noticed (Table A4.2 in Annex 4). In the SAC
area, there has been a substantial change in cropping pattern from cereals to higher value
crops, especially fodder crops and apples and to a lesser extent vegetables. It is certain
that the better access to irrigation water is giving confidence to move away from the low-
risk, low-water requiring cereals. The cropping area changes in the MMMC sub-project
area are less pronounced. The area under cereals remained basically constant but the
fallow area was reduced by about 19 percent as areas under fodder and vegetables
increased by 15 percent and 4 percent respectively. The improved conditions in the field
motivate farmers to cultivate additional area.


6.4      Farmers Satisfaction. The study measured farmer satisfaction with the adequacy
of irrigation services in settlements where the secondary canals were rehabilitated. As
shown in Table A6.2 - the percentage of dissatisfied farmers dropped from 22.4 percent
to 10.2 percent, while the percentage of fully satisfied farmers increased by over 29
percent.

                         Table A6.2 - Farmer satisfaction rate (%)

                        Dimension of Service                                  2004                           2006
                            Fully Satisfied                                        16.3                      45.7
                          Partially Satisfied                                      61.3                      44.1
                               Dissatisfied                                        22.4                      10.2




                                                                    57

Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                      58

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(This Annex was prepared by staff of AIOJSC and its PIU)

1. Project Objectives

8.1.1 Agriculture in Azerbaijan, being one of the major inputs to the country's Gross
Domestic Product, is largely dependent on irrigation. After the break-up of the Soviet
Union, rapid lack of budgetary allocations for maintenance of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure caused serious deterioration of many canals, headworks and drainage
systems affecting their stability, designed capacity, and operational safety.

8.1.2 Views on long-term and sustainable development of the irrigation sector have
made Government to develop a program up to 2015. The program identified priority
irrigation and drainage schemes which require rehabilitation and completion. One of the
first counterparts of that program was Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and
Drainage Infrastructure Project (RIDIP, IDA-33900). The development objectives of the
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project (RIDIP)
were to:

    (a) prevent the decline in supplying water to Baku City;
    (b) eliminate further deterioration of the supply of irrigation water to approximately
        86,000; and
    (c) improve drainage and reduce water logging and salinity on approximately 36,500
        ha along Main Mill-Mugan Collector (MMMC).

8.1.3 To achieve these objectives the project had primarily to carry out: (a)
rehabilitation of the first 50 km of SAC, including the headworks; and (b) completion of
the remaining 31 km of MMMC. The project would also assist the State Amelioration
and Irrigation Committee and District Irrigation Exploitation Units in the command areas
of the SAC and MMMC in taking first steps towards increased operational efficiency
through an institutional development component.

8.1.4 During the project implementation the project objectives remained the same with
small changes from the original PAD design.

2. Project Components

8.2.1 The Project constituted three components:

2.1 Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure

This component included rehabilitation and modernization of key main infrastructure of
the SAC and completion of the last link of the MMMC. The SAC works included:
(i) repair of the concrete lining of the first 50 km of the main canal; (ii) rehabilitation of
the 50-year old Samur Headworks; (iii) construction of sedimentation extraction works at


                                                59

the head of the main canal; (iv) rehabilitation of inter-farm canals leading from the first
50 km of the main canal that supplies water to about 65,000 ha; and (v) design and
construction supervision services. The MMMC works included: (i) completion of the
remaining 28 km of the main collector drain; (ii) provision of necessary road and rail
bridges and aqueducts across the main collector drain, and an adjacent service road;
(iii) completion of the siphon underpass for the main collector drain beneath the Araz
River; (iv) reconstruction and rehabilitation of inter-farm collectors in 36,500 ha; and
(v) design and construction supervision services.

8.2.1 The achievements of the rehabilitation and construction works are summarized in
Table A8.1.

                            Table A8.1 - Project Rehabilitation Works


                                                       Construction      delay  No of
                                   US$ mn    %    start   end     months months bids  status

                      h-works            2.2     Mar-01 Jun-02     16      3     8   complete
                      Package 1          2.8     Apr-03 Nov-04     19      4     3   complete
- 2nd Contract        Package 2        10.6      Jan-05 Sep-06     20      4     2   complete
                      Package 3          6.1     Oct-05 Jun-07     21      4     3   complete
                      Package 4          4.5     Mar-06 Jun-07     15      2     5   complete
 SAC works sub-total                   26.2 59%




                      siphon             5.8     Apr-01 Oct-02     18      1     8   complete
                      Package 1          5.2     Jun-03 Nov-04     18      3     3   complete
                      Package 2          7.4     Jan-05 May-06     16      -     3   complete
 MMMC works sub-total                  18.4 41%


 Total works:                          44.6 100%


                                         2.3     Jan-02 Jun-07     65            6   complete


 TOTAL                                 46.9


8.2.3 Samur-Apsheron Canal System. RIDIP comprised rehabilitation works for
several sections of the SAC system, including:

       The Samur Headworks,
       The Inter-farm Canals fed by SAC along its initial length until Gudyalchay River
          and 3 Inter-farm Canals fed by Khanarkh Canal in the same region (SAC
          Package 1);
       The Sedimentation Basin and 19 Inter-farm Canals fed by SAC between
          Gudyalchay River and Velvelichay River and Inter-farm Canals fed by Khanarkh
          Canal (SAC Package 2);
       Rehabilitation of SAC Lining and Associated Structures located along the First 27
          km of its length (SAC Package 3); and


                                               60

     Partial Increase of SAC Capacity and Rehabilitation of its Lining and Associated
         Structures located along the reach from km 27 to km 50 (SAC Package 4).

8.2.4 Completed works on the SAC system comprise rehabilitation of the headworks,
first 50 km of the main canal, a new sediment basin, and some 185 km of secondary
canals serving about 65,000 ha. The headworks now allow reliable abstraction of water
from the Samur River, thereby providing the opportunity for ensuring consistent and
adequate annual delivery of water for irrigation and to Baku City, as well as safe
discharge of floods. AIOJSC reports much improved operation of these important
headworks, being able to divert the required volumes of water, with the structure also
being strong and stable enough to withstand the high river floods that typically occur
every year during the spring. The completed sediment basin is expected to reduce levels
of silt entering the canal system by an estimated 30 percent, thereby reducing
maintenance costs for canals and slowing sedimentation of the Jeiranbatan Reservoir.

8.2.5 Main Mill Mugan Collector System. The works on the MMMC system
comprised completion of a new siphon under the Araz River, and completion of the last
28 km gap in the main collector drain and reconstruction of related secondary collector
drains. Project works have bridged the gap in the right bank collector system of the Kura
River from the Mengechevir Reservoir to the Caspian Sea. This brings important
benefits to irrigation areas on both banks of the Kura, as each bank now has a separate
drain. Formerly drainage waters from the upper areas of the right bank were diverted into
the left bank collector drain, which reduced the effectiveness of that drain.

8.2.6 Three contracts were completed on the MMMC system by May 2006. The works
on the first contract comprised completion of the siphon and construction of the diversion
of the Araz River over the completed siphon. AIOJSC reports satisfactory operation of
the structure since its completion in late 2002. The last two contracts were to construct
the new 28 km main collector drain to connect the above siphon with the existing main
Karabakh drain. The other works under these two contracts included 78.7 km of new
inter-farm collector drains, 6.7 km of new irrigation canals and structures, one railway
bridge, five road bridges, and four aqueducts.

8.2.7 The originally proposed route of the main collector drain was through state land
which was specifically exempted from privatization in anticipation of the construction of
the drain. After final survey and design it was found that the final alignment of the drain
required acquisition of some land that belonged to the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources, the Railway Department, and private owners and municipalities. The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) stipulated that no private land could be affected
unless procedures for compensation were reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Land values were set by the Government based on a number of factors, such as soil
quality and productivity, location, and access to water. Compensation for private land
included also the value of crops and fruits trees and other assets to be expropriated or
demolished. Municipalities were compensated at fixed land value rates. The final land
acquisition plan was approved by the Prime Minister on May 13, 2003. In total, 73
families and four municipalities were affected in Saatli and Imishli Raions. The total



                                              61

amount of compensation was calculated at about US$260,000 equivalent that was paid
from government counterpart funds. Payments to private owners were made through
bank transfers to individual bank accounts opened by each landowner. They also
received new land titles, which were issued by the State Land Committee. It can be
concluded that the land acquisition process was completed in compliance with the DCA's
requirement.

8.2.8 Construction Supervision. During the whole period the construction was
supervised by JacobsGIBB/Sulaco staff. This team of international and national
consultants was contracted in January 2002 to provide management, supervision, and
control of the design services provided by the `Azgiprovodhoz' Design Institute (ADI),
as well as construction supervision services. The consulting firms were responsible for
the adequacy and suitability of the designs prepared by ADI, which was the nominated
sub-consultant for survey, investigation and design work. The major design services
were completed in October 2005.

8.2.9 Construction supervision continued until the end of the project and has been at a
satisfactory level and quality during the entire construction period. Under the guidance
of the PIU construction engineers (in Baku), a team of supervisors headed by resident
engineers remained assigned to both SAC and MMMC contracts. Senior staff from the
international consulting firm oversaw these site supervision teams.

8.2.10 Assessment of Rehabilitation Works. The rehabilitation/construction program
started in each of the project areas soon after project effectiveness. The first two
contracts were implemented more or less on schedule, and finished before new contracts
started to be implemented. The main reasons for that included the long time needed to
compensate for land acquisition in the MMMC area and the long time needed to get full
agreement on the scope of works along the secondary canals in the SAC area. The delay
was partly caused by the need to replace the consulting firm's team leader/design
engineer due to unsatisfactory performance and by the initial lack of regular coordination
and integration of the various parties involved in design activities. The working relations
improved a lot after this was identified as an issue early 2003. Additional packages in
MMMC and SAC followed in sequence. All works in the MMMC area were completed
at the beginning of the 2006 irrigation season. The works in the SAC main canal had to
be delayed until a secured water supply could be guaranteed for Baku City. This was the
main reason for the extension of the closing date of the project.

8.2.11 All contracts were procured through ICB, but have been implemented by
consortiums of large Azeri contractors. They were well equipped for the tasks and have
generally done satisfactory jobs. Almost every contract was completed with some delay,
but this was rarely the fault of the contractors. Instead, delays were caused by variations
for additional works and delays in starting up the works due to late closing of the SAC
main canal. Also, during rehabilitation works, taking into account requests of water users
and local population, municipality and executive bodies, construction of prioritized
structures unforeseen in the design have been carried out. The most important structures
were automatic water level regulating structure constructed at Pk 37+34 of SAC for



                                              62

suppling irrigation water to the Gullar Village in Gusar Region and water offtake
structure constructed at Pk 225+70 of SAC for improving water supply of cultivated
areas of the Gochagly village of Khachmaz region. The long-crested level regulating
structure constructed in order to provide stable water supply of the Gullar village within
SAC-3 package has been calculated and designed by PIU specialists on the basis of the
idea proposed by the experts of the California Polytechnic.

8.2.12 The quality of the works was generally satisfactory and the AIOJSC has been
provided with infrastructure that is expected to improve water supply and distribution in
the SAC area and drainage in the MMMC area.

2.2 Component 2: Institutional Strengthening

8.2.13 The project supported some institutional developments to make a start with the
improvement of the quality and sustainability of irrigation development and management.
There were four sub-components:

 (i)   review of the SAC management operations;
 (ii)  preparation of an irrigation sub-sector review, which would be an important input
       for the development of a long-term sub-sector strategy by Government;
(iii)  preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study to review the technical,
       environmental, social and economic viability of the expansion in capacity of the
       SAC, a major issue bearing on long-term water resource development and
        expenditure in Azerbaijan; and
(iv)    training and study tours, covering a wide range of topics such as project
        administration and modern design and O&M practices of irrigation and drainage
        systems.

8.2.14 SAC Management. The project financed consultants (ASPI Consulting Engineers)
to review the work practices, processes, and skills of the SAC management and the
District Irrigation Exploitation Units (DIEU) in the SAC area, as well as the coordination
between these different offices and the water users. In particular, the consultants
reviewed: (i) the current organizational structure and activities of the SAC management
and DIEUs; (ii) the current level of cooperation between all the offices involved with
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the SAC system; and (iii) the O&M costs and
financial situation. The consultants then designed a modern management information
system and made recommendations for an institutional development action plan for SAC
management and DIEUs. The report was accepted by the AIOJSC at the end of 2004 and
the recommendations are expected to be used in future as AIOJSC is reforming its
operational activities.

8.2.15 Irrigation Sub-sector Review. Consultants (ASPI) prepared an irrigation sub-sector
review that focused on such aspects as: (i) economics of irrigation; (ii) cost recovery
systems; (iii) social impacts of possible closure of unsustainable irrigation systems; (iv)
the public investment program for irrigation; and (v) the institutional arrangements for
the sub-sector. Recommendations included: (i) a better development of Water Users



                                             63

Associations which is covered under IDSMIP; (ii) gradual increase in water users
contributions to eventually cover the O&M costs in full; and (iii) options for transparent
billing and cost monitoring. Government, through the AIOJSC, is currently developing a
comprehensive strategy for the irrigation sector until 2015 that is expected to become the
guiding document for irrigation development and O&M. It covers such aspects as further
development and modernization, including automation, of irrigation and drainage
systems, dam development to secure the future water needs; and further WUA
development. The irrigation sub-sector review has been an important background
document for the preparation of the strategy.

8.2.16 Long-term Strategy and Feasibility Study for SAC. The long-term strategy and
feasibility study for SAC was a comprehensive study (Nippon Koei/Sulaco) to review the
technical, environmental, social, and economic viability of the proposed expansion in
capacity of the SAC in order to guarantee the long-term supply of water to the
agricultural lands of the SAC region and to Baku and neighboring cities. Options to
achieve this include a more efficient management of available water resources and
existing infrastructure, as well as development of new infrastructure.

8.2.17 The conclusions of the study were that government's proposed water development
program is economically, technically, and environmentally feasible, and that the
proposals constitute the best development option to guarantee the long-term water supply
to Baku. Government is committed to further the SAC development and has already
started preparatory works for the construction of Takhtakorpu Reservoir that will be fed
from the SAC main canal after 50 km.

8.2.18 Training and Study Tours. During the implementation of RIDIP various study
tours and trainings have been held. The PIU Accountant has participated in the training
course on Financial Management and Disbursement in World Bank Projects in November
2003 at the International Center of the International Labor Organization in Turin, Italy.
The specialist also attended two workshops: one on World Bank Client Connection
website subject, Tbilisi, Georgia, December 2004 and Financial Management and
Disbursement Workshop, Istanbul, Turkey, June 2006. A PIU Procurement staff member
attended Works Procurement Management Course in May 2004 and Equipment
Procurement Management Course in October 2006 at the International Training Center of
the International Labor Organization in Turin, Italy and several local seminars, including
on the introduction of Client Connection. The PIU M&E Specialist attended the World
Bank's Training & Workshop "Good Practice in Monitoring, Evaluation and
Management Information Systems for Competitive Grant Programs in ESA countries",
2002, Rovinj, Croatia. The specialist also attended International Development
Evaluation Training (IPDET) in Ottawa, Canada, in 2003 and in 2005.

8.2.19 In-country training program included computer and English language courses for
PIU staff. These courses can also be evaluated positively as almost all PIU staff has been
able to obtain certain computer skills and has basic English language skills.




                                             64

8.2.20 Several study tours were conducted. A two-week study tour to the UK and
France was organized for officials of the AIOJSC and PIU staff in order to get familiar
with modern methods of operation and maintenance of irrigation systems and water
resource management. A study tour to Western USA and Mexico too place to learn about
management of irrigation systems and WUA development.

8.2.21 Overall, the training program had a positive impact on staff performance. For
example, a good M&E program was implemented and satisfactory quarterly reports were
produced. Similarly, procurement and financial management related training have
contributed to the strengthening of PIU capacity, which has led to satisfactory
performance of procurement and financial management staff.

2.3 Component 3: Project Implementation Support

8.2.22 This component comprised the following four sub-components: (i) support for the
PIU, covering part of the incremental staff salaries and operational expenses, as well as
equipment and vehicles; (ii) provision of a technical assistance team of international
specialists during the first years of project implementation to advise and train the PIU
staff and assist the PIU to successfully implement the project; (iii) M&E and
environmental monitoring; and (iv) the annual audit of the project accounts.

8.2.23 Project Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit for RIDIP was
established on July 2, 1998 with the Order No 51-e of the former State Amelioration and
Irrigation Committee (SAIC). With the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers in October
2004, SAIC was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture under the name of
Amelioration and Water Farm Agency (AWFA). In February 2006, the AWFA was
given independence under the name of Azerbaijan Amelioration and Irrigation Open
Joint Stock Company (AIOJSC). During all these changes the PIU answered to the same
management.

8.2.24 Technical Assistance to the PIU. Technical assistance (TA) consultants (Mott
MacDonald/Temelsu Joint Venture) were recruited during the early project years to
provide management and implementation advice to the PIU. The TA included a long-
term Technical Advisor and short-term specialists in Construction Supervision,
Procurement, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Environment. One of the important
consulting services originally not considered under the project, but later recommended by
the World Bank was a need for an international Design Consultant for modernizing the
measuring structures along the SAC Main Canal. For such purpose PIU applied to the
director of the Irrigation Training and Research Center of California Polytechnic State
University, USA. All TA has been effective and allowed the PIU staff to gain sufficient
experience to implement the project in a satisfactory manner during the project years.

8.2.25 Monitoring & Evaluation. The M&E system of RIDIP was established in 2002.
The M&E system comprised data collection related to key performance indicators
(amount of irrigated areas, productivity of irrigated crops, amount of water used for
irrigated crops and etc.), monitoring and evaluation of financial, procurement and
construction activities, and socio-agro-economical assessment via field surveys. The PIU


                                               65

hired a local NGO to measure the impact of the project through a baseline survey in 2002
and two follow-up impact studies in 2004 and 2006. Through surveys the benefits have
been assessed in the areas that benefited from the rehabilitation and construction works
that were completed during project years.

8.2.26 Regular environmental monitoring (chemical, biological, physical analysis of
water and ground water, flora, and fauna) in both project areas has been carried out by the
PIU, assisted by consultants. Environmental monitoring in Sarisu and Ag-gol Lakes
proceeded in accordance with the agreed Environmental Monitoring Plan. Lake Sarisu is
located close to the new MMMC, which cut off part of the lake's catchment area. The
objective of monitoring activities in this area is to determine mitigation measures that
may be needed to guarantee the water level of the lake. The monitoring showed that there
is no obvious impact of MMMC on the lake as inflow continues to exceed the outflow
and evaporation, and the available facilities to regulate the outflow allow so far for a
stable water level in the lake. Close monitoring of the situation will continue under
IDSMIP in order to ensure with full certainty that the main collector drain has no
negative impact on Lake Sarisu.

8.2.27 Project Audits. Project auditing was carried out by an independent audit firm
each year, starting from 2001. No significant issues were identified during auditing.
Project accounting and financial reporting were always considered as satisfactory.

3. Procurement

8.3.1 The Procurement mainly consisted of procurement of Civil Works Contract.
These amounted to eight, covered both the SAC and MMMC systems.

8.3.2 Consultants were selected through QCBS, LCS, CQ, SSS and Individual
Consultants methods. Only one national firm has been successful in ICB for consulting
services for the services on institutional support to the former State Amelioration and
Irrigation Committee. All other ICBs for consulting services have been carried out by
foreign consulting firms.

8.3.3 The procurement has been generally considered adequate during the
implementation of the project.

4. Disbursement and Budget

8.4.1 The total disbursement from IDA funds at the end of the Project was of the
amount of US$47,994,800. Owing to substantial changes in foreign exchange rates the
US Dollar equivalent of the remaining credit funds comprised US$2,668,257.

5. Bank and Borrower Performance

8.5.1 Bank. The Project identification and overall design were based on a thorough
assessment of preliminary needs, available choices, and component sector and social
analysis. During Project implementation there were no changes in Project objectives and


                                              66

general planned Project activities. Small changes occurred in the design of civil works.
The Bank lending performance is rated satisfactory.

8.5.2 The Bank's supervision performance is rated by the Borrower as highly
satisfactory. The Bank supervision team had continuity and managed to engage a
sufficient number of qualified specialists in each of the project's fields. After the
effectiveness of IDSMIP, supervision of both projects always took place at the same time.
Overall for RIDIP 14 Supervision Missions took place up to May 15, 2007, with four
experts in a team on average. Bank's management was engaged at all steps of project
implementation, joined the Supervision Missions on several occasions.

8.5.3 Routine back-up support from the project's Task Team Leader, Joop Stoutjesdijk,
as well as from the Bank Country Office on the various aspects of project implementation
is highly appreciated by the PIU.

8.5.4 Borrower. The project had strong ownership from the very beginning of its
implementation up to the completion. The organizational reforms of irrigation agency
from the Ministry to government-owned joint stock company (AIOJSC) did not affect the
project. The project continued to be supported and supervised on the regular basis by all
branches of the agency.

8.5.5 The PIU was fully integrated in the AIOJSC. The team has implemented the
project in a satisfactory manner. The procurement, financial management, and M&E
arrangements have been generally considered adequate for the implementation of the
project. The PIU had also in place adequate financial accounting and reporting systems
that provided timely and accurate financial information for project implementation.

8.5.6 AIOJSC assisted the PIU in establishment of the work environment with other
government bodies such as Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Economic Development, State Land Committee, and Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources. PIU reports were integral part of the AIOJSC reports to Government.
including reports to State Statistical Committee.

8.5.7 The project implementation was in the framework of different government
programs such as State Program on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development, State
Program on Social Economic Development of Regions. The PIU worked in collaboration
with secretariats of these programs, exchanging data, reports, and findings.

6. Lesson learned

8.6.    The Project provides the following relevant lessons that should be taken into
account in the future:

     It is important to develop capacity of the PIU and expose the PIU to the
        international best practices of the subject matter from the very beginning of the
        Project, especially for interventions that are piloting in the irrigation sector of the



                                              67

  country for the first time. The training program should be managed effectively
  and efficiently to allow PIU staff and government civil servants to better utilize
  the international experience sharing opportunities through study tours and
  conferences.

 The expectation of the Project implementations periods should be based on
  realistic assumptions at the appraisal step.

 It is highly valuable that it was possible to apply advanced technologies in
  construction of new modern irrigation structures within the project. In future,
  projects should definitely find the place for innovations.

 The M&E system of the project should be integrated with those of government
 ministries and agencies. The participatory approach involving all stakeholders
  should be dominant at all steps of project implementation.

 Good supervision work is essential for satisfactory outcome. Besides the quality
 and commitment of PIU staff, the high quality and the continuity of supervision
 WB missions was industrial to the satisfactory implementation of the project. The
 proper skill-mix is important to enable participation of experts on a need basis.




                                        68

Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

9.1  Not Applicable.




                                    69

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

   Final report - Mott Mac Donald/Temelsu JV - October 2004.
   Technical Assistance on preparation of institutional support for SAC and
     irrigation Sub sector review Final SAC management report - ASPI consulting
     engineers Inc -May 2004.
   Long term strategy and feasibility study for the SAC system Overall summary 
     NIPPON KOEI  August 2004.
   Long term strategy and feasibility study for the SAC system Draft final report 
     NIPPON KOEI  January 2005.
   Report on numerical modeling SAC  Wallingford  March 2003.
   SAC Final Completion report #1 Rehabilitation of SAC headwork  Jacobs GIBB.
   SAC Final Completion report #2 Rehabilitation of SAC P1 inter-farm canals 
     Jacobs GIBB.
   SAC Final Completion report #3 Reconstruction of SAC P2 inter-farm canals and
     sedimentation basin  Jacobs GIBB.
   SAC Final Completion report #4 Rehabilitation of SAC first 27 km section P3 
     Jacobs GIBB.
   SAC Final Completion report #5 Rehabilitation of reach from 27km-50 of SAC
     P4  Jacobs GIBB.
   MMMC Final Completion report #1 Completion of MMMC siphon of Araz River
      Jacobs GIBB.
   MMMC Final Completion report #2 Completion of MMMC Package 1  Jacobs
     GIBB.
   MMMC Final Completion report #3 Completion of MMMC Package 2  Jacobs
     GIBB.
   Feasibility study on SAC and MMMC  CES consulting Engineers Saizgitter,
     Germany  December 1999.
   Environmental assessment and monitoring in the project areas of the SAC and
     MMMC - CES consulting Engineers Saizgitter, Germany - March 2000.
   Final report on the scientific-research works carried out for "Implementation
     laboratory studies for hydraulic regime of Samur Headworks Intake Structure"
     and "Implementation of the experimental studies for the preparation of the
     structural scheme of Samur Headworks Settling basin and provision of its normal
     regime" on the Contract related with the physical modeling of the headworks and
     the settling basin  2004.
   Various Aide Memoires, Management Letters, and technical reports prepared
     during IDA implementation review missions.




                                          70

