Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20429-AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.7 MILLION (US$ 42 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION OF IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT
May 26, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Manat
1 Manat = US$ 0.00023
US$ 1 = Manat 4,400
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADCP          Agricultural Development and Credit Project
ASCE          Azerbaijan State Committee on Ecology
AWC           Apsheron Water Company
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESW           Economic Sector Work
FPP           Farm Privatization Project
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GIS           Geographical Information System
GOA           Government of Azerbaijan
Ha            Hectare
IDA           International Development Association
IsDB          Islamic Development Bank
IEU           Irrigation Exploitation Unit
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISF           Irrigation Service Fee
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MMMC          Main Mill-Mugan Collector
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMR           Project Management Report
RIDIP         Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
SAC           Samur-Apsheron Canal
SAIC          State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TA            Technical Assistance
WUA           Water Users Association
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:    Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Joop Stoutjesdijk



AZERBAIJAN
REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION OF IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             18
2. Financial                                                                            19
3. Technical                                                                            20
4. Institutional                                                                        21
5. Environment                                                                          22
6. Social                                                                               26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       29
2. Critical risks                                                                       30



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      31
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            31
2. Other                                                                               31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           34
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    51
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             71
MAP(S)
IBRD 30708



AZERBAIJAN
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 26, 2000                                 Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor         Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P008284                                Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          N Credit       [D Grant         O Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 42.0
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      4.86            0.00          4.86
IDA                                                            22.10           19.90         42.00
Total:                                                         26.96           19.90         46.86
Borrower: AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: STATE AMELIORATION AND IRRIGATION COMMITTEE
Address: Floor V, House of Government, No. 40 Hajibaev Street, Baku 370016, Republic of Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Sadig Guliyev, Director of the Project Implementation Unit
Tel: +994-12-931868                 Fax: +994-12-931868
Email: irrigation@azdata.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY       j   2001        2002         2003       2004         2005        2006
Annual     2.1           8.6         10.4        10.9         7.7          2.3
Cumulative     2.1          10.7        21.1        32.0        39.7         42.0
Project implementation period: Five (5) years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2000  Expected closing date:  05/31/2006
OCS PAOFa, ,R_ LMd, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the proposed Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and
Drainage Infrastructure Project (RIDIP) project are to: (a) prevent the decline in supplying water to Baku
City; (b) eliminate further deterioration of the supply of irrigation water to approximately 86,000 hectares
(ha) along the Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC); and (c) improve drainage and reduce water logging and
salinity on approximately 36,500 ha along Main Mill-Mugan Collector (MMMC). The project would
eventually lead to:
*   Secured water supply to Baku City at current level;
*   Improved agricultural production through improved irrigation water supply in the SAC
command area; and
*   Improved agricultural production through reduction of water logging and salinity in MMMC
catchment area.
To achieve these objectives the project would primarily carry out: (a) rehabilitation of the first 50
km of SAC, including the headworks; and (b) completion of the remaining 31 km of MMMC. The project
would also assist the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee (SAIC) and District Irrigation
Exploitation Units (IEU) in the command areas of the SAC and MMMC in taking first steps towards
increased operational efficiency through an institutional development component.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l)
Progress towards the development objectives would be measured through:
A.    Input Indicators
Project Expenditure for each Component:
*   Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of Infrastructure (US$ 41.3 million);
* Component 2: Institutional Development (US$ 2.0 million); and
*   Component 3: Project Implementation Support (US$ 2.7 million).
B.    Output Indicators
Irrigation Canal System Rehabilitated (SAC) and Collector Drains Completed or Rehabilitated (MMMC)
(Component 1)
*  Length of irrigation canals rehabilitated (50 km of main supply canal and 260 km of inter-farm
irrigation canals); and
*   Length of main collector and appurtenant structures completed (31 km) and rehabilitation of
inter-farm collectors draining 36,500 ha.
Institutional Development (Component 2)
*   Satisfactory completion of. (a) irrigation sub-sector review study; (b) feasibility study for the
-2 -



future expansion of the SAC system; and (c) SAC management study.
Project Implementation Unit (Component 3)
*   Preparation of progress management reports (PMR);
*   Preparation of environmental monitoring reports;
*   Preparation of annual work program and annual report; and
*   Satisfactory completion of annual extemal audits.
C. Impact Indicators
Preventing Decline in Water Supply to Baku City
*   Annual amount of water totaling 290 million m on average supplied to Baku City.
Supplying and Distributing Adequate Water in a Timely Manner
*   Distribution of water in line with crop water requirements of about 6,500 m 3/ha gross at the
farm boundary;
*   Conveyance and distribution efficiency to increase from 64 to 75 percent at the end of
rehabilitation (no change in on-farm and application efficiency expected under this project);
*  Area irrigated annually; and
*   Increase in crop yield.
Improving Drainage and Reducing Water Logging and Salinity
*   Area irrigated annually; and
o   Increase in crop yield.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19586-AZ                Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/14/99
The strategic objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is to assist the Government of
Azerbaijan (GOA) to establish an appropriate institutional and policy framework which will steer the
country to the path of good govemance as well as equitable development to achieve broad-based growth,
employment creation and poverty alleviation. The Bank-supported three-pronged strategy consists of:
*  An agenda for reform of public sector institutions;
*   A strengthened regulatory and business environment for private sector development,
particularly in the non-oil sectors; and
*   Investment in development, including targeted poverty alleviation measures.
The CAS identifies as one of the key development challenges the need to put in place productivity
enhancing policies and investments in the agricultural sector, which is providing major opportunities to
non-oil business development. It is also the sector which most directly addresses poverty alleviation. The
CAS also identifies the need for continuing reforms in the coverage and delivery of services in the sector as
well as substantial investment programs, particularly in the irrigation sub-sector.
-3-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agricultural Reform. Agriculture is one of the major contributors to Azerbaijan's Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). During the past few years, the sector contributed between 20 and 25 percent of GDP and
around 35 percent of employment. Before Independence in 1991, Azerbaijan was a main producer of
cotton, wheat, grapes and vegetables for the Former Soviet Union (FSU) markets. Real output declined
rapidly between 1991 and 1995, when the production of grains fell by 19 percent, of cotton by 48 percent,
of grapes by 66 percent and of vegetables by 43 percent. The decline in agricultural production has leveled
out during the past few years, but has yet to rebound.
From 1996 to date, fundamental changes have been introduced, including the abolition of the state
order system for agricultural products, the removal of most control on external trade in agricultural
products and the discontinuation of official pricing of inputs and outputs, as well as the replacement of
state input supply and farm output marketing organizations with privately owned and managed companies.
The ongoing liquidation of state and collective farms and the physical distribution of a significant
proportion (to date more than 85 percent) of farm land to individual farm members is creating a private
farm structure, with large numbers of small family holdings and private group farms.
Despite this progress made with the reform of the agricultural sector, major issues remain that slow
the transition to an efficient agricultural sector. Issues include: (i) the need to improve the legal and
institutional framework to support a land market, promote the development of rural credit systems and to
use land as collateral; (ii) the need for agro-industry restructuring, caused by over-capacity and lack of
working capital; (iii) lack of market information; (iv) lack of agricultural diversification, with major
emphasis on the cultivation of low valued grains; (v) lack of access to credit for private farm and
agro-industry enterprises; (vi) lack of advisory services and new productivity enhancing technologies; and
(vii) deteriorating irrigation infrastructure.
Government is comnmitted to complete the transition to a privatized, market-based agricultural
sector and it is expected that, with the help of donors and external financiers, most of the above mentioned
issues would be addressed during the next years. An Agricultural Sector Update was prepared in late
1997, which raises many of the issues that affect agricultural reform and development and provides an
outline for a strategy for continuing agricultural development that should result in continued growth and
realization of the full potential of Azerbaijan's agriculture sector. The IDA financed Farm Privatization
Project (FPP; FY97) and the Agricultural Development and Credit Project (ADCP; FY99) have activities
in the areas of farm information and advisory services, land registration and rural credit. The coverage of
these two projects includes the RIDIP project areas and adequate coordination mechanisms are expected to
be developed to leverage the activities under the three projects.
Irrization Sub-sector
Irrigation Sustainability. The country has favorable growing conditions for a wide variety of
crops, the cultivation of which is largely dependent on irrigation. Almost all agricultural land is under arid
or semi-arid conditions, with average annual rainfall of 200 to 350 mm, more than half of which falls
outside the main growing season from April to September. For example, in Khachmaz in the center of the
SAC project area, the mean effective rainfall during the growing season is 124 mm (40 percent of the mean
annual total), while the mean reference crop evapotranspiration for the same period is 708 mm. The net
irrigation requirement for beans, grapes and tomatoes are 336 mm, 320 mm and 470 mm respectively. The
only agriculture possible without irrigation is low intensity livestock production on natural pasture severely
limited by low rainfall, which would not meet the country's food needs, much less the employment and
- 4 -



income requirement of its large rural population. Consequently irrigation is a key input for reliable crop
production.
The total area equipped for irrigation is about 1.45 million ha, covering over 80 percent of all
arable land in the country. Many of the irrigation systems were developed during the FSU period with little
or no attention to economic costs and viability. SAIC is responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the irrigation and drainage infrastructure outside the boundaries of the former state and collective farms
(there were about 900 collective and 600 state farms before Independence). During the past decade
operation and maintenance (O&M) budgets have been far below required levels, with the current budget of
SAIC estimated at about 30 percent of what is needed to properly maintain the infrastructure. The
approved budget for SAIC during the past few years has been around 140 - 160 billion Manat (around US$
35 million). Even though about 70 percent of this budget was spent on the category operation and
maintenance most of it was spent on electricity. Only 9 percent of the budget was spent on reconstruction
works. As a result, the main and distribution irrigation systems and drainage channels have not been
maintained well and consequently infrastructure facilities are deteriorating. This has resulted in irregular
and inadequate availability of irrigation water at farm level, which in turn results in yields that are much
below the irrigated yield potential. Similarly, lack of adequate drainage is suppressing yields and arable
area is shrinking year by year due to growing salinity and water logging conditions.
Other sub-sector issues that affect sustainability are: (i) high reliance on pumped irrigation (over
500,000 ha, but mainly outside the two project areas), which for a number of farms may prove uneconomic
if key expenses, such as energy and pump maintenance, are valued at their economic costs. Many pumps
are not maintained properly and more and more become increasingly inefficient to run or unoperational; (ii)
the beneficiary participation is still low, in particular with regard to negligible contributions to the SAIC
for water supply and delivery services (see below), as well as for the O&M of the on-farm irrigation
distribution infrastructure; (iii) on-farm distribution systems are not well suited to the new, smaller farm
structures that are emerging from privatization; and (iv) farmers lack experience in the management of
irrigation systems and remain largely unorganized.
SAIC has calculated a blend irrigation service fee (ISF) for each of the raions varying from Manat
1,600 (US$ 0.36) per 1,000 mn3 to Manat 216,000 (US$ 49.1) per 1,000 m 3. The country-wide blend ISF
would be Manat 23,800 (US$ 5.40) per 1,000 m 3. Considering the 7.3 billion m' of water that is supplied
on average to the farms annually, the water users would contribute Manat 174 billion (US$ 39.5 million) to
the Committee's budget. Realizing the water users' low ability to pay at the moment, SAIC has set the
current payment level for ISF at rates varying from 5 to 15 percent of the needed tariff, which would
provide Manat 20.9 billion (US$ 4.75 million). Since its introduction in 1998, less than 25 percent of this
reduced amount was actually collected on an annual basis. The pilot farms of the Farm Privatization
Project are benefiting from rehabilitation of farm distribution and drainage systems and organization of
water users. The collection rate of ISF in these pilot farns has reached levels that are close to the required
one and regular payments are made to SAIC for the delivery of water to the farm as agreed by contract
between the water users and SAIC's districts exploitation units.
Long-term Vision for the Sub-sector. The Government has made a start in developing a long-term
vision for the irrigation and drainage sub-sector. A program for the period up to 2010 was prepared in
1995. The program identified priority irrigation and drainage schemes which require rehabilitation and
completion and stated Government's commitment to the restructuring of SAIC and introduction of water
charges to users. Accordingly, Government has so far adopted key legislation including the law on
amelioration and irrigation (June, 1996), water code (December, 1997) and resolution on establishment of
-5 -



water user associations (WUAs) and the introduction of irrigation service fee (October 1996). The
Government is further committed to develop a detailed implementation plan to: (a) carry out the identified
rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) establish WUAs and devolve on-farm
irrigation distribution facilities to WUAs; and (c) increase efficiency in managing and operating primary
and secondary irrigation and drainage facilities through restructuring of SAIC. The Government has not
the monetary resources to reverse the physical decline of irrigation systems resulting from years of neglect,
nor are the existing institutions appropriate to ensure sustainability should rehabilitation be effected. If
there is no reform and no rehabilitation the irrigation and drainage systems will continue their terminal
decline, and Azerbaijan's agriculture will inevitably follow, which would severely affect the employment
base in the rural areas. The vision plan has been shared with various donors and so far the Islamic
Development Bank (IsDB) and IDA have started supporting the Government in implementing the program.
Institutional Framework. SAIC is not only responsible for the development of policies and
planning of the irrigation sub-sector, but also for the operation and maintenance of all irrigation dams and
canal systems up to the boundaries of the former state and collective farms. The Committee comprises
some 160 organizations at all levels, yet it is still very much a centrally managed organization. The
Committee keeps a work force in place of reportedly 22,000 people, the majority of whom is engaged in the
O&M of irrigation infrastructure, which is, as indicated above, currently severely constrained by lack of
budget. SAIC has gone through an initial restructuring and has reduced staff by around 5,000 through
divestiture and consolidation of several institutions and departments. Further restructuring of SAIC and
reduction in work force is expected to continue during the next years.
Water users remain largely unorganized and, as indicated above, contribute little to O&M. WUAs
have been developed only on a pilot basis for the management and O&M of distribution systems within the
former farm areas under the IDA and IFAD financed Farm Privatization Project. So far no infrastructure
outside the former farm boundaries has been tumed over to the water users, which is understandable as this
should only be done after strong WUAs have been established at the lowest level, i.e. within the former
state and collective farms. Institutional arrangements have to be developed further at both Government
agency and farm level to manage the distribution of water and maintain the irrigation networks both outside
and within the former state and collective farms.
Environment. One of the conclusions of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP; 1998) is
the general lack of environmental monitoring, including monitoring of land and water. Major identified
environmental issues that relate to the irrigation sub-sector are: (i) ineffective water resource management;
(ii) increasing areas affected by water logging and salinization; (iii) pollution of major rivers; and (iv) soil
erosion due to poorly designed on-farm irrigation systems.
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Irrigation Sustainability. The proposed project envisages support to Government to reestablish
the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sub-sector. In particular, the proposed project would
contribute to the rehabilitation of the SAC and completion of the MMMC, both of which have been
identified as the highest priority works in the development plan that was prepared in 1995. Further, the
project would assist SAIC in carrying out the following activities which would form the basis for the
development of a long-terrn vision for the irrigation and drainage sub-sector: (a) preparing a sub-sector
review; (b) improving operational efficiencies in SAC; and (c) carrying out a detailed feasibility study for
the long-term development plan for the SAC. The outcome of these activities would not only help
Government in developing its long-term vision for the sub-sector, but would also be incorporated into the
design of an on-farm irrigation rehabilitation and restructuring project, the preparation of which is expected
to start soon.
Institutional Framework. The proposed project would provide capacity building of SAIC in
project planning, design and implementation according to international standards. It would also make a
start with the restructuring of the O&M organizations in the SAC command area.
Environment. The proposed project would develop and implement a comprehensive monitoring
program for the regular monitoring of key environmental parameters in the SAC and MMMC command
areas. It would address the environmental issues that have been identified for the sub-sector through the
rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and institutional support that would
improve water management and reduce water logging, salinity and river pollution. The project would also
incorporate identified mitigating measures in the design and during implementation of the sub-projects.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project would constitute three components: (i) Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and
Drainage Infrastructure; (ii) Institutional Strengthening; and (iii) Project Implementation Support.
Component 1: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
The project would support rehabilitation of critical main infrastructure of the Samur-Apsheron
Canal System, located in the north-eastern part of the country. The System comprises a headworks across
the Samur river, a 182 km long main supply canal, a reservoir near Baku City, pumping stations, three
sediment basins and a number of secondary canals that supply water to the irrigation areas. The System is
seriously deteriorated and its vulnerability to failure threatens the continuity of both the irrigation supplies
to about 86,000 ha and the water supply to the population of the Baku-Apsheron Peninsula (SAC should
supply approximately 40 percent of the drinking and industrial water needs of the 2.5 million people living
on the Peninsula). Government has prepared a plan for the SAC to meet future domestic and industrial
water demands. This plan proposes new dams and a realignment of the main supply canal from km 50
onwards to avoid pumping.
-7 -



The proposed project would be limited to rehabilitation of the canal system from km 0 to 50, which would
be compatible with any future development plan of the system beyond km 50. In particular, the project
would: (a) rehabilitate the 50 year old Samur headworks, where past flood damage and lack of regular
maintenance jeopardize the integrity of the barrage, and replace all seriously deteriorated gates and lifting
gear; (b) repair the concrete lining of the first 50 km of the main canal, with associated structures
(including those to allow adequate water measurement), where deterioration arising from neglected
maintenance has led to an unacceptable loss of water and difficulties in managing the water (The design of
the hydraulic structures would take into account new water supply conditions after the completion of the
rehabilitation of the Khanarkh canal. This canal is being rehabilitated with financial assistance from the
IsDB. After its completion, it will supply water to some of the irrigation areas that are now supplied by the
SAC). The project may also finance an enlargement of the main supply canal, which would, however, be
subject to the satisfactory completion of the feasibility study referred to in item (d) under Component 2; (c)
rehabilitate sedimentation extraction works at the head of and along the SAC, based on a comprehensive
study and elaboration of a long-term environmentally acceptable solution; (d) rehabilitate inter-farm canals
leading from the first 50 km of the main canal that supplies water to about 65,000 ha; and (e) support
design and construction supervision services.
Drainage is essential for many irrigation systems in Azerbaijan, but most critical in the flat
low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyan plains totaling about 760,000 ha, where soil salinity has
developed for lack of natural drainage. The Kura River runs through the center of the country. The
development plan for the construction of collector systems to drain these areas was prepared by the early
1960s. The Kura left bank collector system has been completed. Developments on the right bank started
in the 1980s. Sixty km of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector has been completed and 52 km is currently
under construction. This leaves a 31 km missing link to complete this important project and link it to the
Main Mill Karabakh Collector (MMKC). This latter Collector is now linked to the Main Shirvan Collector
on the left bank of the Kura River, which often results in overload, which is why some of the saline MMKC
drainage water is released in the Kura River during peak drainage periods. The project would support
completion of this last, critical link in the MMMC as follows: (a) complete the remaining 31 km of the
main collector drain; (b) provide necessary road and rail bridges and aqueducts across it as well as an
adjacent service road; (c) complete the siphon underpass for this drain beneath the Araz River; (d)
reconstruct and rehabilitate inter-farm collectors in 36,500 ha; and (e) design and supervision services.
The project would not finance irrigation infrastructure in the MMMC area. Most of the irrigation systems
in this area were developed much later than in the SAC area and have deteriorated less. With proper O&M
the systems in the MMMC area would continue to function relatively well for the next decade or so.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthenina
The project would support institutional development to make a start with the improvement of the
quality and sustainability of irrigation management. There would be four sub-components: (a) institutional
support for SAC management in order to develop an organization that is cost effective and efficient with
strong customer orientation and delivers quality water services that customers want and eventually
prepared to pay for in full. The project would provide technical assistance (TA) to review the work
practices, processes and skills of the SAC management and the District Exploitation Units in the SAC area,
as well as the coordination between these different offices and the water users. The TA team would
prepare proposals to improve the management of the SAC system (which would include plans for necessary
reorganization and skill improvements), establish solid accounting and pricing principles to improve
transparency and accountability and develop and implement a management information system and a
system to improve collection of ISF. The project would initially focus on the SAC command area, but may
- 8 -



introduce improvements in the MMMC area as well at a later stage; (b) preparation of an Irrigation
Sub-sector Review, which would be an important input for the development of a long-term sub-sector
strategy by Government. The review would focus on the economics of irrigation and institutional
developments; (c) training and study tours, covering a wide range of topics such as project administration
and modem design and operation and maintenance practices of irrigation and drainage systems. This
activity would provide Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and SAIC staff from headquarters and SAC and
MMMC management organizations with exposure to modernized and cost-effective engineering
technologies and successful cases of institutional reform in the irrigation and drainage sub-sector. It is
noted that, in addition to formal training and study tours, all TA consultants would have to provide
on-the-job training; and (d) preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study to review the technical,
environmental, social and economic viability of the expansion in capacity of the Samur-Apsheron Canal, a
major issue bearing on long-term water resource development and expenditure in Azerbaijan.
Component 3: Project Implementation Support
This component would comprise the following four sub-components: (a) support for the PIU,
covering part of the incremental staff salaries and operational expenses, as well as equipment and vehicles;
(b) a technical assistance team of international specialists during the first two years of project
implementation to advise and train the PIU staff and assist the PIU to successfully implement the project.
The TA would include a long-term Technical Advisor and short-term specialists in Construction
Supervision, Engineering Design, Procurement, Financial Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and
Environment; (c) annual monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and environmental monitoring surveys; and (d)
the annual audit of the project accounts.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
_________ _  .(US$M)   Total   (US$M)  financing
A. Rehabilitation and Completion of    Al - Irrigation &  41.34    88.2     36.85       87.7
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure   Drainage
A. 1. Samur-Apsheron Canal
A.2. Main Mill-Mugan Collector
B. Institutional Strengthening     AG - Agency          1.98        4.2       1.98       4.7
B. 1. SAC Management             Reform
B.2. Irrigation Sub-sector Review
B.3. Training and Study Tours
B.4. SAC Expansion Feasibility
Study
C. Project Implementation Support  Other Non-sector     2.74        5.8      2.37        5.6
C. 1. PIU                        Specific
C.2. Technical Assistance
C.3. M&E and Environmental
Monitoring
C.4. Audit Services
D. Refinancing PPF                                      0.80        1.7       0.80       1.9
Total Project Costs                    46.86      100.0     42.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    46.86      100.0      42.00     100.0
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would not seek to establish new sectoral policies. It would support the Government's
program for the development of the sub-sector for the period up to 201 0. Besides rehabilitation and
completion of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, it would support the introduction of refonns in the
operation and maintenance organizations of the SAC System, leading to more efficient, cost effective and
equitable distribution of water and better accounting procedures. It would also support the preparation of a
strategy for the sub-sector to permit future investments to focus on schemes with a long-term economic
future.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would directly benefit around 40,000 farm families in the 86,000 ha that are directly
supplied by the SAC System and around 15,000 farm families in the 36,500 ha of MMMC. Also, 70,000
farm families would benefit less directly within the command area of the MMMC, as the advantages of the
improvements obtained by the project would affect and improve agriculture over much of the right bank
command area. The primary project benefits would be in terms of increased crop production, based on an
overall increase in yield estimated at 25 percent after rehabilitation, due to improved water supply to the
farms in the SAC area and improved drainage conditions in the MMMC area.
During project preparation a water resources model was prepared to determine the SAC System
reliability. The model showed that for the existing situation the reliability was low at the lower end of the
SAC. The existing infrastructure can not satisfy the irrigation demand up to the commonly accepted
standard of 75 out of 100 years (75 percent). For two typical irrigation areas in the lower part of the SAC
the reliability varies from 34 to 59 percent. The reliability to supply Baku with the needed water is around
59 percent, which is less than the commonly accepted 90 to 95 percent.
As a result of the project the water supply in the SAC would become more reliable in terms of
quantity and timeliness, which would result in increased water availability at farm level. The overall
irrigation efficiency is currently estimated at 35 percent. In the with-project situation the overall efficiency
is expected to increase to 42 percent, because of increases in the conveyance and distribution efficiencies.
This increase is due to the rehabilitation works in the canal system that would reduce the water losses and
improve the water management in the system. Benefits would also extend to the 2.5 million population of
Baku and the Apsheron Peninsula whose water supply reliability would be increased from 59 to at least 69
percent and thus the risk of interruption reduced by improvements in the SAC System. Further
improvements in system reliability are possible through expansion of the supply canal and development of
storage reservoirs and also through improvements of on-farm irrigation distribution and application
efficiencies. The proposed project would carry out the most important rehabilitation requirements.
Government is seeking further support from IDA for a second irrigation project that would improve
on-farm efficiencies and from IDA and other donors for works below km 50 along the SAC.
The Project would support the completion of the last, critical link in the Main Mill-Mugan
Collector which would relieve acute drainage congestion in 36,500 ha and a less severe congestion in up to
200,000 ha on both sides of the Kura River. Besides agricultural benefits, this sub-project would also
reduce contamination of the Kura River with saline water and have a beneficial effect on fisheries and
irrigation schemes in the river's lower stretches, as well as on the quality of Baku water supplies drawn
from this source (about 40 percent of the water delivery to Baku).
Institutional improvements would result in increased capacity to prepare and implement projects
- 10-



financed by international donors and financiers, as well as more efficient use of funds and resources for
O&M within the project's conmmand areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project duration and location
Project implementation is anticipated to take five years, from December 2000 to November 2005,
with the Credit Closing Date being May 31, 2006. The project's physical works are confined to the service
areas of the Samur-Apsheron Canal System and the Main Mill-Mugan Collector Area. The institutional
reforms introduced would be of benefit to the whole sub-sector when replicated in other schemes.
Executing Agency and Implementation Arrangements
SAIC would have overall responsibility for implementation of the project. Responsibility for
day-to-day management and administration would be delegated to a Project Implementation Unit. This PIU
was recently established in SAIC with a core staff (Director, Accountant and Procurement Specialist), with
the PIU Director reporting to the Chairman of SAIC. The PIU would have direct responsibility for all
implementation tasks, including preparation of programs, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), procurement,
accountancy, disbursement, management of the Special Accounts and reporting to Government and IDA.
Professional PIU staff would include, in addition to the three staff that have already been appointed, a
Design Engineer, two Construction Supervisors, an Environmental Specialist and a M&E Specialist. The
appointment of this PIU staff with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association is a condition for Credit effectiveness.
The PIU core staff would be responsible for all core activities such as procurement and
financial management. All procurement actions would be carried out using World Bank procurement
procedures. They would also prepare all Requests for Proposals for consulting assignments. The PIU
would serve as the basis for the bid committee that would be responsible for reviewing and evaluating
procurement packages. The bid committee would, as a minimum, be composed of the PIU Director,
PIU Procurement Specialist and SAIC representative. The PIU would also be responsible for the
financial management of the project (see below in section on Financial Management). The Engineers
would ensure that the technical aspects of the engineering design and construction work are carried out
professionally. The M&E Specialist would be responsible for establishing a project-wide M&E system
that would allow the PIU to track and document the progress of the projects by measuring outputs and
impacts in the project sites and pinpoint locations where the project is having difficulties. The
Environmental Specialist would coordinate the environmental monitoring work and ensure that project
activities are carried out in accordance with the agreed environmental management plan. As required
and based on the workload, the project could finance additional core and technical staff to ensure that
all activities under the project are carried out effectively. Manpower requirements would be evaluated
jointly by the Bank and Government during regular supervision missions to determine any necessary
changes.
There is limited experience in SAIC to implement investment programs supported by international
financing organizations. The PIU would therefore be supported during the first two years of project
implementation by a team of experts to provide specialist assistance on those aspects of project
implementation and management in which the PIU staff are not experienced. As such a major
responsibility of the TA team would be to develop institutional capacity to implement investment projects.
The TA team would include a long-term Technical Advisor and a mix of short-term consultants, including
- 11 -



Procurement Specialist, Environmental Specialist, M&E Specialist, Construction Supervisor and Design
Engineer. The PIU would also be supported by a Financial Management Specialists during the initial
stages of project implementation in order to be trained in the use of the financial management system.
The rehabilitation and completion of the SAC and MMMC would be carried out through an
estimated I1 contracts. During project preparation, the necessary works have been identified, designed and
costed up to feasibility level stage by a team of national and intemational consultants. The bidding
documents for the first two packages, valued at about US$ 10 million, have been prepared by the same
consultants. These two packages comprise the rehabilitation of the Samur headworks in the SAC area and
the completion of the siphon under the Araz River for the discharge of MMMC water under the river.
These packages are expected to be tendered in July 2000 so that construction can start immediately after
Credit effectiveness. Other works would be designed and prepared for tendering during project
implementation. It is expected that the sedimentation works and the rehabilitation of the SAC main supply
canal would start in 2002 and the rehabilitation of inter-farm canals in 2003. The MMMC excavation and
construction of appurtenant works can only start in 2002 after the completion of the siphon. Rehabilitation
and reconstruction of the inter-farm drains is expected to start in 2004.
The PIU would contract out the services for design and supervision to a consulting firm for the
duration of the project. The main tasks of the consultants would be to: (i) prepare design reports and
bidding documents, including surveys and investigations as needed, as well as the preparation of technical
specifications, engineering estimates, bill of quantities and tender drawings; (ii) assist the PIU with
construction supervision; and (iii) carry out specialized studies. All works would have to be carried out
according to recognized international standards, therefore construction supervision and quality control
according to modem and efficient methods would be important. The consultants team would include design
engineers, hydrologist, sediment specialist, costing engineer, contract specialist, construction engineers,
construction inspectors, clerks and surveyors.
The consultants would assist the PIU with setting up a construction management organization for
the purpose of supervision of the construction of the different sub-projects. The consultants would provide
for all personnel on site (resident engineers, inspectors, clerks, etc.) for inspection of the construction
works, installation of equipment and the testing of construction materials, in order to ensure that the works
are implemented and goods supplied in accordance with the designs, specifications and terms and
conditions of the relevant civil works and supply contracts. In particular, the consultants would assist the
PIU with the following: (i) contract administration; (ii) inspection of all construction activities; (iii) testing
of materials on site; (iv) testing and inspection of goods and materials; (v) off-site laboratory testing, where
necessary; (vi) review of contractors' submittals; (vii) verification of progress payment requests; (viii)
preparation of monthly progress reports; (ix) assist in contract acceptance and close-out; and (x) assist in
dispute resolutions, when necessary.
Sub-projects would be selected in accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria and the
works would be carried out in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, all of which are spelled out in
the Development Credit Agreement.
Project oversight
An inter-ministerial Steering Commission would be established as a condition for Credit
effectiveness. It would be mandated to review progress with and provide guidance to project
implementation, resolve problems of inter-agency coordination and review and approve the annual work
plan. The Commission would be composed of the Deputy Prime Minister (chairman of the Commission),
- 12 -



the Chairman of SAIC, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Chairman or authorized representative
of the State Committee on Ecology, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Chairman of the
Apsheron Water Supply Company and the PIU Director (secretary of the Commission). The Steering
Commission would meet twice annually or more frequently when required.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment. The overall responsibility for financial management of the
project would rest with the PIU. The PIU includes one accountant; although not envisaged, additional
accountants would be recruited as required during project implementation. The Association conducted a
financial management assessment of the PIU and concluded that the project's financial management
arrangements do satisfy the Association's minimum requirements. The main feature of the projects
financial management arrangements is that the PIU has negotiated a contract with a local financial
management consultant to: (i) establish an accounting system prior to Credit effectiveness; (ii) train the PIU
accountant in the operation of that system; and (iii) oversee and be responsible for the operation of that
system for the first few months of the project before handing over such responsibilities to the PIU. The
selected financial management consultant already has experience of successfully establishing and operating
the financial management system of a similarly complex IDA-financed project and therefore this
arrangement is not considered to contain any significant implementation risks.
Project Management Reports. The agreed formats of the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
are included within the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the PIU would produce a full set of PMRs
for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project commencing with the quarter ending June 30,
2001, however, the PMRs showing details of the sources of funds, expenditures by project component,
expenditures by expenditure category, and the Special Account, would be produced in respect of the
quarter ending December 31, 2000 and quarterly thereafter. Project funds would be initially disbursed
under the Association's established procedures and a move to PMR-based disbursements would be made at
the mutual agreement of the Government and the Association and would be considered once the PIU is
familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and
reliable project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements would be considered by
December 31, 2001.
Audit Arrangements. External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association, as included within the PIP, would be
performed annually throughout the life of the project. The results of the audit of the RIDIP would be
available within six months of the end of every fiscal year and the cost of the audit would be financed by
the Credit. The appointment of the project's auditor is a condition of Credit effectiveness and the appointed
auditor would be retained, subject to satisfactory performance, for the life of the project.
Annual Budget. The PIU would prepare an annual budget for project implementation by
September 30 each year for submission to the Association for its review, before submitting the budget
proposal to the Ministry of Finance. The PIU would maintain a Special Account for the depositing of IDA
funds and a Project Account for the Borrower to deposit counterpart funds. These accounts would be
opened in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the Association.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PIU would appoint one staff member responsible for M&E. This person would also assist the
Environmental Specialist with the monitoring of the environmental program. The PIU would, using
- 13-



expertise of the technical assistance team, prepare a program of annual monitoring acceptable to the
Association immediately after credit effectiveness. This program would be designed to determine the
impact of the project and would monitor at least the indices set out in the logframe analysis in Annex 1.
The PIU's M&E staff member would also monitor project inputs and outputs to be presented in the
Quarterly Reports.
Reportinz
Quarterly Reports. The PIU would be responsible for preparation, and submission to the
Association, of Quarterly Reports. The reports would include progress information on: procurement,
construction, technical assistance, institutional development (completion of studies, training and study
tours), environmental monitoring and management, disbursement, cost estimate updates and difficulties
encountered.
Annual Work Plan. The PIU would be responsible for the preparation of an Annual Work Plan by
September 30 each year for submission to the Government and the Association.
Annual Report. The PIU would also be responsible for preparation of an Annual Report that
would summarize the activities of the preceding year, but would also include the final agreed Work Plan
and agreed Budget for the following year. This Report would be submitted to the Association and
Government within 30 days of the end of the Azerbaijan fiscal year.
Training Plan. Training and study tours would be carried out according to a training plan, which
the PIU would revise semi-annually and submit to the Association for approval prior to implementation.
Other Reports. The Government would prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, on or about March 31, 2003, a Mid-term Report of the project, setting out progress to date,
the results of the M&E surveys and proposals for project completion and achievement of its objectives.
The report would be reviewed with the Association during a mid-term review mission by June 30, 2003.
Also the Government would prepare an Implementation Completion Report for submittal to the Association
within six months of project completion.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following three alternatives to the proposed project were considered and rejected:
(i) Comprehensive, full system rehabilitation (as against concentration on main systems). The
most critical elements in irrigation and drainage schemes are the headworks, main canals and drains. These
must be in good condition to sustain irrigation services and before investment in the lower order irrigation
and drainage systems can be beneficial. In the SAC, investment and development in farm distribution
systems has commenced on a pilot basis under the Farm Privatization Project which is still ongoing and
insufficient lessons have been learned so far to incorporate the findings in a large-scale project. However,
it is recognized that the full benefits of investment in the main system cannot be achieved without
complementary investment in the farm distribution network and development of WUAs, emphasizing the
importance of a second IDA financed irrigation project which is planned for optimum impact as it is
expected to concentrate on WUA development and on-farm irrigation rehabilitation and modernization.
Such a project is expected to increase the overall irrigation efficiencies further. In the MMMC, completion
- 14-



of the missing link in the main drain is clearly the most important priority, as without this no other action is
worthwhile. Finally, the financial resources of the proposed Credit are insufficient to rehabilitate and
complete all infrastructure (including the distribution systems at former farm level) in the command areas
of the SAC and the MMMC.
(ii) Spreading the resources over more than two irrigation systems. With a total irrigated area of
about 1.45 million ha comprehensive rehabilitation and completion of all systems would involve a sum of
about US$ 700 million or US$ 500 per ha, which is considerably beyond the scope of the proposed Credit.
During preparation, consultants were instructed to review and identify the priorities for investment in 11
schemes, covering 530,000 ha, that had been selected by Government as priority for rehabilitation and
completion. They identified, and agreed with Government and IDA, that the SAC and MMMC were
clearly the most critical systems, with irrigation command areas that are among the most important ones in
the country and with a large part of the population that is to a large extent dependent on the SAC for its
water supply.
(iii) Full, long-tenn development of the SAC. The Government has developed a masterplan
concept for the SAC to meet the future domestic and industrial water demands of Baku and the Apsheron
Peninsula as well as the agricultural needs in its service area. This is an extensive plan involving
development of new water sources, construction of new dams and reservoirs, new canals and enlargement
of the existing main canal. While studies of some elements are completed, there has been no
comprehensive, overall study. The Government agreed that completing the missing studies would delay
project preparation considerably, therefore the proposed project would be limited to those stand-alone
elements for which preparation could be completed on time, and which would, at the same time, be
compatible with a possible larger scheme in the future. Thus rehabilitation was limited to the headworks
and first 50 km of the SAC main supply canal.
-15-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector lssue                       Proect                  Latest tl  SupRvsio
__ (Bank-finane a prjects onlyY
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Deteriorated irrigation infrastructure   Farm Privatization Project     S             S
and absence of management at farm    (Credit No. 29330)
level
Incomplete agricultural reform (land    Agricultural Development and    S             S
registration, farm advisory services)    Credit Project (Credit No.
and lack of rural credit            32360)
Deteriorated urban water distribution   Baku Water Supply Project       S             S
systems and inadequate company      (Credit No. 27510)
management
Other development agencies
Incomplete irrigation and drainage  Construction of Main
infrastructure                      Mill-Mugan Collector - Phase
II (Islarnic Development Bank;
ongoing - to be completed by
end of 2000)
Deteriorated SAC irrigation         Rehabilitation of Khanarkh
infrastructure                      Canal (Islamic Development
Bank; planned for 2000)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from ongoing project implementation in Azerbaijan and other FSU countries suggests
that: (i) project scope and design should be simple in view of the country's limited implementation and
coordination capacity; (ii) a project should have few components and be focused on one or few major
activities; (iii) rigorous economic and environmental criteria should be applied in project planning and
design; (iv) competent and efficient local management staff is necessary and should be recruited before
Credit effectiveness for ensuring the viability and sustainability of the project; (v) there should be
appropriate technical assistance, which if not recruited in time or not at all, because of Government's
reluctance to borrow for foreign consulting services, could jeopardize effective implementation; (vi) there
should be major emphasis on procurement and construction quality control; and (vii) projects to be
undertaken in rapidly changing circumstances and with limited reliable information should be designed for
flexibility at implementation.
- 16-



OED's 1994 review of World Bank Experience in irrigation as well as other Bank reports on the
irrigation portfolio emphasize that: (i) irrigation projects with large command areas should be given
preference; (ii) there is need for adequate provision of O&M; (iii) success with O&M is more likely when
irrigation agencies are autonomous; (iv) whether public or private entities provide O&M, budget
contributions from the irrigators should remain within the area of collection; and (v) effective demand
based services are an incentive to payment of water charges.
Experience during project preparation indicates that while Azeri engineers demonstrate good basic
design skills, they lack in their training and experience any objective assessment of alternatives and
economic considerations, so that designs follow long established "norms" without development of modem
approaches and technologies.
The ongoing construction of the second phase of the MMMC (52 kin), supported by the Islamic
Development Bank, demonstrates that the local construction industry has retained its ability to undertake
large contracts and has to some degree restructured itself and is able to participate successfully in
competitive tenders. Several Azeri contractors participated in the bidding, which was won by one of them.
Also the civil works contracts under the Farm Privatization Project have been awarded to either national
contractors or joint ventures between Azeri and foreign contractors. The quality of work carried out by all
contractors is generally satisfactory. A weakness remains in the distinction between the responsibilities
and roles of contractor and supervisor.
These lessons have been discussed with Government and as many as possible have been taken into
account in the project design. It focuses only on two of the most important and largest command areas in
the country and will only concentrate on civil works and institutional support within these areas.
Government has agreed to the early recruitrnent of sufficient and qualified PIU staff, as well as a
combination of qualified national and international consultants for civil works design and supervision as
well as studies. The consulting services include specialists for procurement and independent construction
supervision, including quality control. The procurement of two works and consulting services has already
started. The sub-project activities have been analyzed in detail for economic viability. The project design
will also make a start with the incorporation of the OED lessons on O&M. It will work with SAIC and
SAC's regional and raion irrigation offices on improvements in the collection of users fees, to be used
within the SAC command area on O&M. It will also aim at improvements in water delivery services.
Although the project does not envisage the establishment of a fully autonomous O&M organization within
SAC and MMMC, it will be an important aspects to be studied in the irrigation sub-sector review and
strategy.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has actively supported and promoted this project throughout preparation. In
several letters both the Deputy Prime Minister and SAIC Chairman have confirmed Government's
conmmitTnent to the project and the selection of the two sub-projects. In addition, in the letter of
development policy written by the First Deputy Prime Minister for the Agricultural Development and
Credit Project, Government's commitment to the rehabilitation of main and inter-farm irrigation systems is
stressed.
Soon after project identification, Government requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
finance consulting services for the preparation of the necessary preparation and feasibility studies. SAIC
staff has very actively participated in these studies and contributed extensively to the design of the project.
- 17-



At the time of negotiations Government requested an additional PPF to continue sub-project preparation
and avoid a gap between the completion of the first PPF and expected effectiveness. Government would
like to use this second PPF to finance the full establishment of the PIU and short-term consulting services
to complete the procurement process for the first two sub-projects. Government has already started with
the procurement of the first two civil works contracts and the recruitment of necessary consultants.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The principal contributions of IDA support would be in the introduction of international best
practices in design and implementation of irrigation projects, as well as appropriate institutional
arrangements for project implementation and future management, operation and maintenance of
rehabilitated and completed infrastructure. In particular, the IDA would: (i) introduce reforms in the SAC
system management structure leading to more efficient and equitable distribution of irrigation water and
better accounting procedures; (ii) support the development of a strategy for the sub-sector to permit
development to focus on schemes with a long-term economic future as well as develop a comprehensive
vision for institutional reform; (iii) incorporate into the project planning and design appropriate economic,
financial, social and environmental criteria; (iv) introduce stakeholder participation; (v) introduce high
technical standards and procedures in design and construction; (vi) introduce appropriate procurement
procedures, aiming at competitive bids; and (vii) strengthen SAIC's implementation capacity.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$27.7 million; ERR = 19.9 %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project would comprise the two sub-projects of MMMC and SAC. A separate economic
analysis has been carried out for each of these sub-projects. In general, the project's main long-term
economic benefit would accrue from the following factors: (a) increase in yield; (b) conversion to higher
value crops; and (c) prevention of the future collapse of the irrigation facilities and subsequent decline in
irrigable areas. The SAC sub-project would also yield substantial economic benefit by securing the current
level of drinking water for Baku through critical rehabilitation of the main water supply system. The SAC
is currently delivering about 40 percent of the drinking and industrial water for Baku and surrounding
areas.
Agriculture in Azerbaijan is currently in a depressed situation. With the collapse of regional
markets and the ongoing privatization of state and collective farms, the mode of agriculture has returned to
mainly subsistence farming with minimum inputs and low output. Between 1993 and 1997 average yields
for most crops within the project areas fell to 50 to 60 percent of those experienced before 1990.
(However, it should be noted that in 1998 there was a first sign of recovery due to the availability of
fertilizers and plant protection chemicals and a more secure legal environment for the newly established
farms, which now have clear land titles.)
Scenarios for this economic analysis have been prepared conservatively, taking the above-described
into consideration. Thus, the anticipated increase in yields and conversion to higher value crops would take
place in full only after 1 1 to 13 years from the completion of the sub-projects, allowing for a slow recovery
of the agricultural sector (1 1 years for SAC and 13 years for MMMC). For the without-project scenario, it
- 18-



is assumed that the recovery would continue in the project area even in the face of continued deterioration
of the systems as new farmers respond to the improved market environment. Moreover, for the
with-project situation, it is assumed that farmers would be slow to take full advantage of the rehabilitation
works. In addition, it was assumed that the sub-projects would restore the irrigation area to the 1989 level,
rather than the total potential irrigable area. Other assumptions specific to each of the two sub-projects are
described in Annex 4.
Economic Rates of Retun (ERR) estimated for the SAC and MMMC sub-projects are 23.3 and
16.4 percent respectively, showing that these sub-projects would have sufficient economic viability. The
Net Present Values (NPV) discounted at 12 percent were US$ 16.3 million for the SAC sub-project and
US$ 11.4 million for MMMC.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out in order to assess the sensitivity of the project to such risks
as: (a) delay by five years in achieving full benefit of irrigation, resulting from various reasons such as
limited experience in private farming and limited access to marketing; (b) reduced crop margins for traded
crops (wheat and cotton) resulting from the appreciation of local currency by 10 percent; (c) increased cost
of rehabilitation (by 20 percent) due to an unexpected increase in works; (d) slower adoption of higher
value crops by farmers; and (e) lower crop prices across the board. The sensitivity analysis showed that
these sub-projects are generally robust against these risks (refer Annex 4, Table 7).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Conventional Financial Analysis is not applicable to this project.
Fiscal Impact:
SAC. The proposed rehabilitation of the SAC System would likely reduce the expenditures on the
maintenance for the irrigation infrastructure in the long run, as the planned rehabilitation works proposed
for SAC would repair the heavily deteriorated headworks, concrete canal lining and diversion structures.
The amounts of sediments would also be reduced due to the project interventions, such as rehabilitation of
the sedimentation exclusion works at the headworks. Consequently, less maintenance would be required.
However, it should be noted that in the short run, the operation and maintenance expenditures of SAIC in
the SAC command area would increase, as it would resume proper maintenance which has been deferred
for a long time.
At this moment, it is difficult to estimate the true O&M cost for the SAC, because of the explicit
and implicit cross subsidies within the eight Irrigation Exploitation Units along the Canal and the SAC
Operational Unit, all of which have parallel activities in addition to the O&M of the Canal System. Under
Component 2 of the project, institutional support for the SAC management to assist in developing
programs to improve the canal management and develop solid accounting and pricing principles to establish
transparency and accountability are aimed at providing a more efficient and cost-effective water supply and
delivery service.
MMMC. Overall fiscal impact of the proposed works of the MMMC is difficult to estimate, but it
is likely that the proposed works would not substantially change the required O&M cost. The MMMC
completion would certainly resolve the current overload of the Main Mill-Karabakh and Main Shirvan
Collectors and somewhat reduce their operation and maintenance cost. On the other hand, the proposed
completion of MMMC would also incur new fiscal expenditures. However, as the amount of drainage
water would not be increased, the overall fiscal impacts resulting from the drainage works would not be
- 19-



substantial and completion is not expected to increase the O&M budget of the MMMC by more than 20
percent. It should be noted that there would be a considerable fiscal impact in the short run, as the SAIC
would resume proper operation and maintenance.
Assurance has been obtained from Government that annual O&M plans would be developed to
allow for proper operation and maintenance of the SAC and MMMC systems. It is expected that initially
SAIC would receive most of the required O&M budget from State budget, but that over the years the water
users would start paying more for the service of delivering water.
3. Technical:
The technology involved in the irrigation and drainage infrastructure would to a large extent be
similar to existing structures because the works involved are either rehabilitation of an existing system
(SAC) or completion of an ongoing construction (MMMC), where the scope for incorporation of
improvements in technology is limited for canal lining and drain excavation. Design changes would be
possible for new structures such as bridges, aqueducts, diversion structures and siphon protection.
Under the FSU all designs followed strict "norms", leaving no scope for variety or the introduction
of new technologies, or even for evaluation of failures and adjustment of the design norms. Thus, while
there is every confidence in the ability of national engineers to build good, sound structures, there is less
confidence in the capability of design engineers to adopt least-cost solutions or to objectively consider the
value of a component. In project preparation the question of the "heavy" engineering designs was raised,
with the possibilities for cost economies derived from new design standards, but this proved of little
attraction to Azerbaijan engineers. Thus at the end of preparation, the project components remain very
much based on the sound, but "heavy" unimaginative and rather expensive Soviet standards. The project
would, however, expose PIU and SAIC engineers to more modem engineering in several ways: (i) the
design and supervision consultants would have major foreign inputs in the preparation of detailed designs,
which would be explicitly stated in the terms of reference; (ii) the technical assistance team would work
closely with the design engineers during the design stage of each sub-project and review designs with the
aim of introducing the concepts of "least-cost" and economy; and (iii) study tours to Europe and other
areas where different technologies are in use would be organized.
A particular concern during preparation was the issue of removal of sediments from the SAC
canal. The existing scheme includes de-silting measures that were unsuccessful from the start of the project
because of design errors. Simple rehabilitation here is clearly not a recipe for success. This issue would
need extensive reconsideration and possibly the introduction of a new approach or a new technology. To
address this issue an element of specialized technical assistance has been included in the project to ensure
that an economical, sustainable and environmentally sound sediment removal plan is developed.
The past standard of construction of major works under the FSU, such as are proposed under this
project, have been good and there is every reason to consider that this standard would be maintained. The
ongoing construction of the second phase of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector and the civil works under the
Farm Priv.ization Project indicate that Azerbaijan contractors and supervisors would be able to implement
major civil engineering works in a satisfactory manner.
Considerable effort has been made during project preparation to determine accurate unit prices for
the works. Experience of ongoing projects has been used and market surveys have been carried out to
determine material and labor costs (see Annex 2). Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included
in the costs estimates for the civil works of MMMC and SAC. Prevailing price contingencies for local and
- 20 -



foreign costs have been included as well.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency is the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee, which is capable of
construction and management of major projects. SAIC was responsible for the construction of 1.45 million
ha irrigation under the FSU and is currently responsible for the ongoing major construction of the second
phase of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector, financed by the Islamic Development Bank. However, it is
fundamentally an engineering-based organization with a residual supply-driven, centralized government
mentality which is not yet well adjusted to Bank funded projects. Weaknesses in project management are
anticipated in four fields: (i) design issues, which are discussed in the preceding paragraph; (ii)
procurement; (iii) construction supervision; and (iv) reporting and planning. However, these would mainly
be addressed at the level of the PIU, refer to the succeeding paragraph, rather than at the level of SAIC.
4.2 Project management:
Day to day management of the project would be delegated to a Project Implementation Unit,
reporting to the SAIC Chairman. The PIU was recently established for the preparation of the project, but
is still relatively inexperienced, both in project management and in Bank requirements and procedures. It
would be strengthened before Credit Effectiveness by additional staff and would be supported by a
technical assistance team during the first 18 months of project implementation. The weaknesses noted
above in paragraph 4.1 apply equally to the PIU and would be addressed as follows:
*   Inflexibility and reliance on old "norms" in design would be addressed by inclusion of
intemationally experienced engineers in the design work, by a technical review of designs by
the Technical Assistance team, by on-the-job training and overseas study tours;
*   Procurement weaknesses are inexperience in Bank procedures and a lack of full understanding
of the principles of competition, faimess and transparency, which would be addressed by direct
training of PIU procurement staff and on-site support by the Technical Assistance team, which
includes a full-time Advisor, who should have procurement experience, as well as a short-term
Procurement Advisor;
*   Construction supervision weaknesses relate to a lack of understanding of the roles and legal
responsibilities of contractor, supervisor and Client in construction management, rather than to
technical standards in which Azeri engineers appear adequately trained. The Technical
Assistance team would include a specialist in construction management whose tasks would
include organization of the supervision, including the preparation of adequate guidelines, as
well as training of national staff. The Design and Supervision Consultants would include
intemationally experienced construction supervisors. On-the-job training would be reinforced
by overseas study tours; and
*   Reporting and planning weaknesses in the PIU would be addressed by the Technical Advisor in
the Technical Assistance team who would be assisting the PIU Project Director in these tasks.
4.3 Procurement issues:
During the preparation of the project, an assessment of the public procurement system in
Azerbaijan and capacity of implementing agency was made. Azerbaijan has a Presidential Decree on
Procurement (PDP) and a Law on Tendering (LT). It also has an independent State Procurement Agency
(SPA), which has as major task ensuring effective implementation of public procurement. Nevertheless,
Azerbaijan is a "high risk" country from the procurement point of view. There are two reasons for this: (i)
- 21 -



the country's procurement legislation is unclear and lacks harmony and consistency. It would take time
before the provisions of the Decree and Law are transformed into practice, which would also require an
adequate staffing of the SPA to actively ensure effective implementation of the PDP and LT; and (ii) the
economic atmosphere in the country in which the law operates is not yet conducive to fair and transparent
procurement processes.
The PIU is not yet fully staffed and equipped. It has only gained limited experience in Bank
procurement procedures and practices under the PPF and PHRD Grant for project preparation. In
collaboration with the PIU, an action plan has been prepared to strengthen PIU's capacity to administer
procurement in an effective and transparent way. This plan is summarized in Annex 6. Since the general
procurement environment in which the PIU would operate is not conducive to fair and transparency
procurement processes, the prior review thresholds recommended are those applicable to a "high risk"
country.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management capacity within Azerbaijan has not been the subject of a detailed review
by IDA. However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may
exist in the country's financial management capacity have been mitigated by the use of a specialized project
implementing agency, the PIU, for project implementation, including its financial management, and by the
Borrower's agreement to obtain the IDA's no-objection to the appointment of the project's auditors. The
specific weaknesses of the PIU in respect of its financial management capacity would be addressed by a
local financial management consultant, however, these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary
responsibilities of the Borrower nor of the Association. The selected financial management consultant
already has experience of successfully establishing and operating the financial management system of a
similarly complex IDA-financed project and therefore this arrangement is not considered to contain any
significant implementation risks. In addition, weaknesses in the Azerbaijan banking sector would be
mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by the IDA to hold the project's Special Account.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Assessment. The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) that was prepared
in 1998 identified the following environmental issues related to the irrigation sub-sector: (i) ineffective
water resources management; (ii) increasing areas affected by waterlogging and soil salinization, caused by
inefficient irrigation water management and uncompleted drainage systems; and (iii) pollution of major
rivers. The project would have a positive impact on these environmental problems. Improvements in the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure would allow a more efficient use of water and better control of the
drainage water and groundwater table. The completion of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector would divert
saline drainage water away from the Kura River. Improvements in the institutional capacity to provide
adequate and timely operation and maintenance would improve the water management within the command
areas. No new canals or structures that would allow increase in the water diversion or delivery capacity
are envisaged. The proposed project does not include any investments in dams or involve resettlement of
people. A comprehensive monitoring program has been designed to monitor any impact the MMMC could
have on surrounding areas and funds have been reserved to mitigate any negative impacts (see below in
Section 5.2).
The project has been classified as Category "B" for the purpose of OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, yet a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and an Environmental
Monitoring and Management Plan have been prepared in 1999.
- 22 -



Potential negative impacts of the project would be: (i) (for the MMMC) a reduction in water inflow
into Lake Sarisu and possibly a reduction in water surface and depth, seepage losses from the new
Collector and release of drainage water in a different location along the Caspian Sea; (ii) increased
agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination, resulting from increased use of pesticides and
fertilizers, along with improved availability of irrigation water; (iii) indiscriminate dumping of excavated
sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains and structures during construction and
maintenance; and (iv) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction activities (see
below in Section 5.2).
International Waterways. The proposed SAC and MMMC projects are located within the basins
of international waterways, therefore Operational Policy OP 7.50 "Projects on International Waterways"
applies. The SAC headworks is located on the Samur River, which is a border river between Azerbaijan
and Russia. GOA has duly notified Russia of its intention to rehabilitate the headworks according to the
original design which would not lead to an increase in the headworks capacity. Russia has agreed to the
proposed rehabilitation, provided that indeed it does not lead to an increase in the headworks' capacity
above the original level.
The proposed rehabilitation works of the SAC System would not change the original capacity of
the canal system and therefore would not have any major impact on the quality or quantity of water flowing
into the Caspian Sea. Water use by the riparian countries around the Caspian Sea would not affect the
project. The proposed works for MMMC involve the following international waterways: (a) the Kura
River; (b) the Araz River; and (c) the Caspian Sea. The MMMC would have no impact on water flow, or
its quality or quantity in the upper riparian countries, as Azerbaijan is the most downstream country.
Conversely, the MMMC would not be adversely affected by the upper riparian countries' future water use,
as it does not draw water from international rivers. There would also be no impact on the Caspian Sea,
since the proposed completion of the MMMC would only re-route Mill-Karabakh drainage water from the
left bank of the Kura river to the right bank, but would not change its quantity or quality. By the same
token, water use in the riparian countries around the Caspian Sea would not affect the project. Therefore
the proposed rehabilitation of the SAC System and completion of the MMMC are exempt from the
notification requirement pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of OP 7.50.
Dam Safety. Mingechevir and Shemkir are two major dams located on the Kura River, located
approximately 200 kilometers upstream of the MMMC project area. Due to higher level and distance from
these dams there is no extraordinary risk to the project facilities and the project area in case of failure of
any of these dams and the project would remain functional.
During preparation of the IDA funded Urgent Environmental Investment Project in 1998, a dam
safety assessment of the two dams was carried out by the Association, which concluded that the two dams
are in reasonably good condition. The following requirements were at that time considered sufficient for
compliance with the Dam Safety Policy: (a) resume independent safety inspections; (b) include operational
tests of all gates in the inspection programs; and (c) provide copies of such inspections to IDA. A safety
inspection of Shemkir dam, including operational tests of gates, was made in November 1999 by a team of
Azeri experts, and the dam was found to be in satisfactory condition. A similar inspection for Mingechevir
is planned for 2000.
Relocation of People. The proposed route of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector is through state land
which was specifically exempted from privatization in anticipation of the construction of the Collector.
People would not be relocated as a result of the construction. (See also Section 7.2 below.)
- 23 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP), incorporating a comprehensive monitoring plan, has
been prepared. It has been submitted to the Bank's Infoshop and has been annexed to the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). The EMP describes the mitigating measures for the four potential negative
impacts that are described in the previous section. The Development Credit Agreement has a covenant
calling for the carrying out of the EMP.
The mitigation of potential impact (i) relates first of all to Lake Sarisu, which is a protected area
that would be affected by the sub-project. Lake Sarisu is a shallow water body and reed swamp of around
6,500 ha located in the immediate project area between the MMMC and Kura River. Although only a
restricted area, Lake Sarisu is nevertheless important for migratory and resident birds. Lake Sarisu
receives water from different sources and has an outlet to the Kura River to discharge excess water. It
would be affected by the proposed project, with three impacts: (a) the MMMC would cut across and reduce
the natural catchment area of the lake; (b) the drainage water from an irrigated area of about 10,000 ha,
which is currently pumped into the lake, would in future discharge by gravity into the new main collector;
and (c) the new collector would marginally lower groundwater levels along its route and may increase
seepage losses from the lake. The consequence for Lake Sarisu would be a reduction of in-flowing water
and a possible risk of damage. A second sensitive site, the Ag-Gol Lake, a 9,173 ha protected area
containing a shallow lake and reed swamp, was designated a RAMSAR site in 1976 for the protection of
resident and migratory birds. Although it is hydraulically linked to Lake Sarisu, which receives overflow
from Ag-Gol, it is located more than 30 km away of the MMMC alignment and would be unaffected by the
project works.
Because of the lack of inflow-outflow data of Lake Sarisu it is as yet unclear whether the reduced
water supply would negatively affect the lake's water level and area. A comprehensive monitoring plan has
been designed and costed. Based on the results of the monitoring, Lake Sarisu may have to be connected to
a new water source. A number of options have been considered: (i) increase the water supply to Ag-Gol
Lake through a connection with the Main Mill-Karabakh Irrigation Canal; or (ii) connect with the Kura
river. A panel of national specialists would review the data collected in the monitoring program around
April 2003 to determine the necessity and scope for mitigation measures for Lake Sarisu. A financial
allocation has been made in the project budget to implement such mitigation measure, if deemed necessary
after the monitoring. The PIU would be in charge of arranging for the implementation of necessary works.
The seepage flow from the completed section of the MMMC and its impact on the immediate
surroundings would be monitored. Experience from the completed sections of the MMMC indicate that
negligible impact should be expected from this deep-cut collector.
An additional impact of the MMMC would be the switching of about 25 m3/s drainage water from
the left bank outfall into the Caspian Sea to the more southem right bank outfall, about 50 km to the south.
This is not considered to be a significant factor, as the southem outfall already exists and has been
discharging for a considerable time. Nevertheless, monitoring of the shore and water body near the outfall
has been included in the monitoring program.
The mitigation of identified item (ii) increased agrochemical pollution and surface water
contamination, resulting from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers, along with improved availability of
irrigation water would be addressed by agricultural advisory services that are being established under the
ongoing IDA supported Agricultural Development and Credit Project. The specialists of this service would
- 24 -



provide extension and advisory services, as well as training in proper application techniques and timing and
handling of residues of fertilizers and pesticides. As inputs would not anymore be available at subsidized
prices as during the time of the Former Soviet Union, the actual use of pesticides, chemicals and fertilizers
would not reach the high levels as before Independence. This more careful use of fertilizers and chemicals
and the extension and advisory services is expected to keep the negative impact of increased input use to a
minimum.
Items (iii) and (iv) would be addressed during sub-project design and supervision. Contractors
would be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris
would be displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped indiscriminately. There would be reuse of
suitable excavated materials, limiting the need for old and new quarries. Where possible, existing quarries
would be used for required additional materials. Contractors would also have to restore to quasi-original
condition the landscape after completion of rehabilitation works and after use of quarries. The bidding
documents would have environmental precautionary clauses.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 2000
The Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environmental Management and Monitoring
Plan have been submitted to the Bank's Infoshop and are available from the State Amelioration and
Irrigation Committee in Baku.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Three public consultants meetings were held during December 1999 to inform and consult local
organizations and stakeholders about the proposed project, the monitoring program and the environmental
management plan and to hear their views and suggestions. One meeting took place in each of the two
sub-project areas, while a third meeting took place in Baku, mainly for representatives of
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and other interested individuals and organizations. Each of the
meetings was announced through advertisement in local newspapers. Brief minutes of each of the meetings
have been annexed to the Environmental Management and Monitoring Report.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The PIU would be in charge of administering and coordinating the proposed monitoring program.
It would have a full-time environmental specialist in the team. On environmental issues the PIU would not
only report to the Chairman of SAIC but also to the Chairman of the State Committee on Ecology and it
would coordinate and collaborate with governmental organization and institutes that would be involved in
monitoring work. The investment costs needed to set up the monitoring and evaluation program, including
a Geographic Information System (GIS), as well as the annual operational costs to carry out surveys and
analyze survey data have been included in the project's budget. The inclusion of the GIS would facilitate a
modem data handling and an efficient environmental monitoring.
The environmental monitoring program is proposed to get an exact picture as possible of the
situation before, during and after the implementation of the MMMC and SAC projects. This allows to
define actual project impacts and to design effective mitigation measures. The program comprises annual
- 25 -



campaigns of data collection (statistical data and field observations), data assessment and reporting. It is
proposed to start in early 2001 before construction activities start and to last 8 to 10 years in total. At
least, until the end of the project implementation it should be carried out by SAIC. Based on monitoring
information, discussed in section 5.2 above, the PIU, panel of experts and other involved parties would
decide on necessary mitigation measures for maintaining Lake Sarisu.
Pesticides, chemicals, fertilizer and salinity levels would be measured in the drainage water.
Measurements would take place three times per irrigation season (March, May and September) by local
survey teams to be organized by the PIU. They would analyze the samples with portable field kits.
International thresholds would be used that would signal need for corrective actions. If the level of the
drainage water in the drains is consistently above the World Health Organization (WHO) and/or other
international norms, corrective measures would have to be implemented. These would include increased
training and extension activities and possibly reductions in the use of inputs.
During implementation contractor activities would be supervised by the PIU engineers and
monitored by the State Committee on Ecology. Any damage done by a contractor to the environment
would have to be rectified at the expense of the contractors.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The anticipated social development outcomes of the project would be manifest on the macro level,
strengthening the creating of the physical framework for sustainable irrigated agriculture. This is a major
infrastructure project that would affect a large part of the Azeri population. The SAC rehabilitation works
are necessary to avoid the collapse of the existing diversion and increase the amount of water diverted for
irrigation and drinking water. This sub-project would therefore reduce vulnerability. The MMMC
sub-component would complete a major drainage collector that would carry water directly to the Caspian
Sea. It would improve the drainage in areas that already have declining yields due to waterlogging and
salinization and halt the spread of the phenomenon; this would especially be evident in the 36,500 ha that
directly borders the alignment of the 31 km long collector drain that would be constructed under the project.
This would both decrease vulnerability and increase opportunities for different sets of farmer stakeholders.
The two sub-projects are first steps in the program that would next address issues of access and social
cohesion through improvements in inter-farm and on-farm system improvements in the irrigation and
drainage infrastructure that are essential for agriculture and rural livelihoods in Azerbaijan.
The institutional initiatives in the project are directed to make irrigation management more effective
by promoting transparency and accountability within SAC management. These initiatives would benefit
farmers by leading towards better integration of farmers in irrigation management, which would be the
focus of the proposed follow-on project. Improved water delivery to the farms involved in the Farm
Privatization Project would also strengthen the institutional changes initiated under the project at the level
of the former state and collective farms, which constitute hydrological units within the irrigation system.
The project would support development of an irrigation sub-sector review and strategy which
would address the viability of all existing irrigation schemes and pay special attention to the social issues
associated with the possible closure of non-viable irrigation schemes. The review is intended as a
discussion document to promote open debate and consultation on a number of issues related to the
economics of irrigation and the social impact of irrigation in Azerbaijan. However, the project would not
lead to the closure of schemes.
- 26 -



A social assessment process was initiated in the two sub-project areas during the 1999 agricultural
season. The work consisted of a survey of 1,600 households and staff of about 400 different entities
(collective farms, non-agricultural and state enterprises, etc.). Tjhis stage of the social assessment was
designed to understand a number of issues: (i) problems with irrigation and drainage infrastructure and the
contribution of unsatisfactory water supply to low agricultural production; (ii) the extent to which the
reluctance of water users to pay for water use is related to the unreliability of irrigation service and
inadequacy of supply, as well as ability to pay; (iii) the extent to which water users feel the need to be
involved in operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and water management; (iv) the
willingness of water users to organize themselves; and (v) level of interest of users to take responsibility for
system management. The results revealed that: (i) the principal problems with the existing irrigation
systems supplies are unreliable and inadequate supplies and poor and deteriorating drainage; (ii) farmers
would be willing to pay for better service; (iii) farmers are willing to be organized, but feel that they have
neither the mandate nor the skills to organize; and (iv) farmers want to have more responsibility for
decisions that affect their livelihood. These findings thus confirm the importance of the proposed
investments, as well as the need and the focus of the proposed second project, which is expected to focus on
institutional developments at former state and collective farm level, in order to increase users participation
in operation and maintenance.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project preparation, five workshops have been held, both in the field and in Baku, at which
the proposed project and the environmental assessment were presented to beneficiaries, concerned officials,
including representatives of the environmental agencies and interested NGOs. The initial presentation of
plans for the MMMC in the early 1 980s was accompanied by consultations and public announcements,
thus officials, farmers and other stakeholders were already aware of the objective of the collector drain.
Consequently, the workshops were designed primarily to update information and address new issues,
including environmental ones, rather than develop a basic understanding of objectives and overall activities.
The workshops concluded that more detailed consultations were not necessary at this stage, where the
physical works proposed are concentrated on the major infrastructure, i.e. the headworks, main canals and
drains. It has been agreed, however, that preparation of the proposed second irrigation project would start
with more extensive and intensive consultations with various stakeholders from farmers to officials and
technicians designed both to create a common understanding, establish priorities and initiate a participation
process that would continue through the design and implementation of the second project to the
empowerment of user groups.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Two inter-district seminars were held in each of the sub-project areas during the social assessment
in each of the project areas. The results of the assessments were discussed with a wide range of
stakeholders, including farmers, heads of farms and enterprises, local administrators and local SAIC staff.
Ongoing consultations would focus more attention to the scope and content of the proposed second project
than specific design and implementation arrangements for this project, however. In addition, three
consultation meetings were held to discuss enviromnental issues.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 27 -



The principal social outcomes of the project are associated with improved drainage and increased
reliability and supply of irrigation water. These dimensions are standard concerns of the SAIC although
documentation has been limited in the past and dissemination has obviously been limited in the past.
Institutional development initiatives of the project would strengthen the measurement and monitoring of
water delivery, as well as increase the transparency of record-keeping and the dissemination of information,
thereby increasing accountability.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The salient indicators of project performance are the points of interface with groups of farmers and
other water users, i.e. water delivery points and drainage facilities. Consequently, system monitoring,
focusing on deliveries and system performance, would serve both physical and social monitoring purposes.
More detailed, sophisticated micro-level monitoring is neither relevant nor feasible within the context of the
project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
atolicy\                                    ppal ;  f   Iit 
E Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           [Z Yes D No
D Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04 GP 4.04)                     El Yes Z No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    El Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      El Yes Z No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes E No
El Indigenous Peoples COD 4.20)                                   O Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             O Yes 3 No
E Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                         __ Yes El No
El Projects in Intemational Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)    Z Yes E No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         O Yes [Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project would involve some land acquisition for the right of way for the MMMC, but OD 4.30
does not apply because the acquisition merely consists of a transfer from the budget of one governmental
unit (primarily District and Municipality) to another unit (SAIC). The original alignment of the collector
was set around 1983, deliberately following the borders of state and collective farms, rather than
transecting them. The right of way was approximately 200 m wide throughout the length of the section of
the collector. Following standard procedures, the land was surveyed and parcels identified for
appropriation by eminent domain. A package of approvals and agreements was submitted to the Cabinet of
Ministers, which approved the project, including land acquisition and compensation, on July 12, 1985.
That approval expired two years later without action being taken. Subsequently, when the state and
collective farms were privatized in the 1990s, the land situated in the route of the collector was set aside,
exempted from privatization. Consequently, the land remains in the possession of State and Municipal
authorities. Once final designs are completed, there is a very small chance that the final alignment may
move outside of the reserved area, affecting either private land or other State and Municipal land. At
present, however, this is not expected to occur, thus the land acquisition in the project would consist of land
transfers from one governmental agency to another. If it does, the reserved land would be substituted for
the land that is actually transferred to the SAIC. The Development Credit Agreement stipulates that no
private land would be affected unless procedures for compensation and replacement have been reviewed
and found satisfactory by the Association. This issue would be followed closely during supervision.
-28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance, as well as effective operation of the rehabilitated or completed
irrigation and drainage infrastructure would be critical for the sustainability of project benefits and should
be an important focus for the country. During the past years the contribution from State budget to O&M
of irrigation infrastructure has been insufficient and, as described in Section B, the contribution of water
users towards financing the O&M of the off-farm irrigation infrastructure is still very low and is expected
to remain low during the next few years. Emphasis should first be on improving the collection rate of the
existing ISF and not focus on increasing the charge until an adequate system of collection and enforcement
is in place. This also reflects concerns about the current low incomes in the rural areas and Government's
desire not to increase charges until incomes begin to rise. Increase in ISF would be considered during the
implementation of the second Irrigation Project.
Even with higher collection rates in the project's command areas, Government would still have to
make more funds available for O&M. Assurance has been obtained from Government that SAIC shall
request an annual budget adequate for the proper operation and maintenance of the SAC and MMMC
Systems. This O&M budget and its full justification would be submitted to the Association first for its
review, before submitting the budget proposal to the Ministry of Finance.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
N022:            isk            Risk Ra .i;            Risk Minimiztion Measuire .
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient budget for O&M;                 S         Better inform and educate water users, through
training, information campaigns and promotion,
that adequate contributions to the O&M of
rehabilitated or completed infrastructure are
necessary for the long-term sustainability of
irrigation infrastructure. The Water Users
Associations Coordination Unit (established
under Farm Privatization Project) and the
upcoming preparation activities for the proposed
Irrigation II project should have a major focus
towards this. The project seeks commitment
from government, through a covenant, that it
allocates adequate funds;
Lack of farmers commitment to pay            S         Support for WUA development to continue
higher Irrigation Service Fee;                         under Farm Privatization Project and during the
preparation of the second irrigation project;
Insufficient capacity to properly operate    M         SAIC has retained many capable staff that
and maintain rehabilitated or completed                would be able to carry out operation and
infrastructure;                                        maintenance if sufficient funds are available;
From Components to Outputs
Cost overruns during project                 M         During preparation, consultants have spent
implementation;                                        considerable time costing the project works, and
have included a review of ongoing civil works to
determine actual unit costs for different works
and materials;
Capable contractors cannot be attracted to   M         Contract packages are large and may attract
carry out civil works;                                 foreign firms. Azerbaijan contractors have
retained much of their strength and are currently
satisfactory involved in the implementation of
some large civil works;
- 30 -



Project staff are not competent and        M         The short-list of consultants would be reviewed
dedicated;                                           and approved by the IDA and all recruitment of
consultants would be based on competitive
procedures. An important task of the
international consultants would be on-the-job
training and knowledge transfer. National staff
would have necessary training opportunities;
Sufficient counterpart funds are not        S        Counterpart financing needs have been kept to a
available;                                           minimum. Annual review of the counterpart
fumds should be done in time and project staff
would have continuing discussions with MOF;
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions ofproject effectiveness include:
* The PIU has been fully established within SAIC and its staff shall have been appointed with
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
* Independent auditors, acceptable to the Association, shall have been appointed;
* The Steering Commission shall have been appointed, composed of the Deputy Prime Minister,
the Chairinan of SAIC, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Chairman or a
representative authorized by the Chairman of the State Committee on Ecology, Deputy
Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Chairman of the Apsheron Water Supply Company
and the PIU Director (Secretary); and
*   The Borrower shall have opened a Project Account in a local commercial bank and shall have
deposited an amount in Manat equivalent to US$ 130,000.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition for disbursement for the Works category.
*   Each design has to be approved by the Association, through submission by the PIU of a
satisfactory design report.
Management:
* Government will maintain a Steering Commission; and
* Throughout the implementation of the project, the PIU will be maintained with a sufficient
number of staff, consultants, adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
- 31 -



Project Implementation
*   Each Works contract will be designed in accordance with agreed criteria;
*   Each Works contract will be carried out in accordance with agreed terms and conditions;
*   Government will, not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the
Association, for its review, a work program and budget for activities to be carried out during
the following fiscal year; and, immediately thereafter, finalize said program taking into
consideration the Association's comments;
*   Before submission to the Ministry of Finance, SAIC will submit to the Association for review
the draft annual O&M budget adequate for proper operation and maintenance of the SAC and
MMMC systems;
*   Training and study tours shall be carried out according to a training plan, which the PIU will
revise semi-annually and submit to the Association approval prior to implementation; and
*   Incremental operating costs as a result of the project implementation will be disbursed on the
basis of an annual budget to be agreed with the Association.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
*   Government will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of
the project and the achievement of the project's objectives; and
*   Government will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, on or about
March 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the
achievement of its objectives; and review the report with the Association, by June 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The draft bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the Samur headworks and the completion of the
MMMC siphon under the Araz River have been completed.
- 32 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Joop Stoutjesdijk  Ke   M. Cleaver
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
K'ey Performance
Hierrh  of9 Objectives i  .      tc                 nIndicM rng & Evalua tono    CriticaI Asumptionsi
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Attainment of long-term    1.1. Contribution to GDP  1.1. Government statistics;   Consistent with Bank
sustainable growth in      from irrigated agriculture in                          Mission;
agriculture;              the project areas;           1.2. Living standards surveys;
1.3. Various sector and
country reports, prepared on a
regular basis by different
organizations;
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Prevent the decline in  1. 1. Annual amount of water  1.1. 1. Baku-Apsheron Water Supportive macro-economic
supplying water to Baku and  supplied to Baku Water   Supply Company data and    framework;
surrounding areas and stop    Supply Company in line with  annual reports;
further deterioration of the    average demand of 290                             Continued agricultural policy
supply of irrigation water in   million m per year;   1.1.2. SAIC statistics;     reform;
the SAC command area;
1.2. Supply of irrigation  1.2.1. SAIC statistics;    Related investments and
water to farms within the                             Technical Assistance projects
project area adequate and                             financed by IDA and other
timely, in line with crop water                        financiers are successful;
requirements of about 6,500 m
3/ha gross at the farm                                Agricultural inputs are
boundary;                                              available at competitive prices
and prices for agricultural
1.3. Conveyance and        1.3.1. SAIC statistics;    products are competitive;
distribution efficiency to
increase from 64 to 75 percent
at the end of rehabilitation;
1.4. About 69,000 ha       1.4.1. Ministry of Agriculture
irrigated annually after   statistics;
completion of rehabilitation of
all works;                 1.4.2. PIU monitoring and
evaluation reports;
1.4.3. SAIC statistics;
1.5. Yields of 3.2 ton/ha for  1.5.1. Ministry of Agriculture
wheat, 6.6 ton/ha for fruits,   statistics;
19.5 ton/ha for vegetables and
3 ton/ha for grapes four years
after rehabilitation works have
been completed;
- 34 -



2. Improve drainage in the    2.1. Groundwater table below  2. 1.1. SAIC statistics;
MMMC command area;          2.0 meter in project area;
2.1.2. PIU survey data;
2.2. Area irrigated annually 2.2.1. Ministry of Agriculture
to be maintained at 36,500 ha statistics;
after completion of the
MMMC;                        2.2.2. PIU monitoring and
evaluation reports;
2.2.3. SAIC statistics;
2.3. Yields of 3 ton/ha for    2.3.1. Ministry of Agriculture
wheat, 2.5 ton/ha for cotton, 7 statistics;
ton/ha for fodder and 15
ton/ha for vegetables four
years after the completion of
the works;
- 35 -



Keiy Pefrformance
"Hier0a*hyof Objctiest          indctrswd tg        M6oiorng & Ealuation        Cr il Asmtions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Irrigation canals in the    1.1. Length of irrigation  1. 1. Annual report by SAC    Sufficient budget for O&M;
SAC command area          canals selectively rehabilitated and SAIC on scheme
rehabilitated and drainage    (50 km of main canal and 260 performance;        Farmers committed to pay
channels in the MMMC      km of inter-farm canals);                            higher irrigation service fees;
command area completed and                          1.2. Annual surveys by PIU's
rehabilitated;            1.2. Length of drainage   M&E staff;                 Sufficient capacity to maintain
channels completed (31 km)                          rehabilitated or completed
and selective rehabilitation of 1.3. PIU quarterly and annual infrastructure;
collector drains on 36,500 ha. reports;
1.4. IDA supervision reports;
1.5. Mid-term report;
1.6. Implementation
Completion report;
2. The ability of SAIC to    2.1. Development of    2.1. Annual report by SAIC
develop, operate and maintain feasibility and design studies  on SAC and MMMC system
irrigation infrastructure is   ready for submission to  performance;
improved;                 Government and financiers;
2.2. Annual survey by PIU's
2.2. Annual O&M plans for  M&E staff,
the SAC and MMMC
command areas completed;   2.3. PIU quarterly and annual
reports;
2.3. Project implemented in
compliance with           2.4. IDA supervision reports;
Environmental Management
Plan;                     2.5. Mid-term report;
2.6. Implementation
Completion report;
- 36 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Rehabilitation and      1.1. US$ 41.34 million;    1.1.1. PIU Progress reports,  No cost overruns during
completion of irrigation and                          including disbursement and   project implementation;
drainage infrastructure:                              procurement data;
Capable contractors can be
1.1. Samur-Apsheron     (US$ 22.1 million)          1.1.2. IDA supervision     attracted to carry out civil
Canal;                                                reports;                    works;
1.2. Main Mill-Mugan    (US$ 19.3 million)                                     Project staff are competent
Collector;                                                                        and dedicated;
Sufficient counterpart funds
available;
2. Institutional Strengthening 2.1. US$ 1.98 million;  1.2.1. PIU Progress reports,
including disbursement and
procurement data;
1.2.2. IDA supervision
reports;
3. Implementation Support   3.1. US$ 2.74 million;     1.3.1. PIU Progress reports,
including disbursement and
procurement data;
1.3.2. IDA supervision
reports;
-37 -



Annex 2: Project Description
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$41.34 million
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
The project would finance physical works within the Samur-Apsheron Canal and Main
Mill-Mugan Collector command areas, as described below.
Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC) System
Description and History.
The SAC is one of the most critical irrigation systems in Azerbaijan, located in the north-eastern
part of the country. Not only does it supply irnigation water to about 86,000 ha along the coastal plain, but
it also contributes about 40 percent of the domestic and industrial water supply to Baku and the Apsheron
Peninsula with a total population of about 2.5 million. The system was first constructed in 1939 as an
earth canal serving only irrigation, but was reconstructed in its current form in the 1950s. The system now
comprises:
*  Headworks, a gated barrage, abstracting water from the Samur River, subject to a
water-sharing agreement with Dagistan. The water sharing agreement dated October 7, 1967
is still valid and in effect. This allows for the headworks to abstract up to 889 million m' per
annum, which is 81 percent of the available water at 75 percent probability. Azerbaijan's
share is 75 percent, with the balance provided by the same structure to Dagistan;
*   Offtakes at the headworks providing for 55 mr/sec to the SAC canal, 14.5 m'/sec to the
Khanarkh canal and 17 m 3/sec to Dagistan;
-   Concrete lined SAC canal, capacity 55 m'/sec at the head, reducing to 25 m3/sec at the bottom
end. The SAC canal is 182 km long with a total irrigated service area of 86,000 ha. This
includes an area of 12,700 ha currently served by the Khanarkh canal. The command area of
the SAC canal would be reduced when rehabilitation of the Khanarkh is completed and this
canal would assume some of the service area of the SAC, while the SAC would be used more
extensively as a water conveyance to Baku and the irrigation areas towards the end of the
canal;
*   Desedimentation works at the headworks, and three sedimentation basins on the SAC canal
(km 8, 12 and 120);
*  Khanarkh canal. To be rehabilitated with IsDB financing; construction expected to start
during the second half of 2000 (estimated cost US$ 15 million);
*   37 offtakes on the SAC canal supplying inter-farm irrigation canals;
*  Jeiranbatan Reservoir, located towards the end of the SAC, providing 150 million m
(designed) live storage for Baku water supply and delivering about 10 mn3/sec to the city;
*   Lift pump station for 25.0 m3/sec at km 132; and
*   Terminal pump station at km 182 for up to 25 m 3/sec for delivery to Jeiranbatan Reservoir and
from there for Baku and 10 m'/sec for irrigation on the Apsheron Peninsula.
- 38 -



Current Condition.
The system has had negligible maintenance since construction and the headworks and SAC canal
are reported to have never been closed for extended periods in order to carry out rehabilitation works. The
security and stability of the headworks has been compromised by flood damage to the apron and the
secondary downstream weir and there is damage to the upstream guidewalls. The steel gates are severely
corroded and are structurally unsound, all leak seriously and some are inoperable. The lifting gear is
similarly deteriorated. The body of the barrage is fundamentally sound, but water erosion has removed the
protecting cement mortar rendering, eroded the underlying concrete and has exposed reinforcement in some
places.
The condition of the concrete lining of the SAC canal varies from satisfactory to seriously
deteriorated but generally is in need of maintenance throughout its length. The offtake structures are also
seriously deteriorated, with the gates and measurement facilities generally inoperable. Excessive leakage
losses and restricted conveyance capacity have resulted in an inadequate supply to the secondary inter-farm
canals and to a consequent poor irrigation service to the farms. Because of its importance the supply to
Baku has been maintained over the years with an average net annual supply of 290 million mI (range of 8.5
to 10.4 mr/sec), as a result of which the water shortages and unreliability of delivery are in consequence
more severe in the irrigation service area. The district irrigation exploitation units report in consequence a
reduction in irrigation supply from 600 million mn in 1989 to 254 million m3 in 1999, reflected in a 40
percent decrease in reported irrigated area and under-irrigation of other areas.
There is a considerable sediment flow in the Samur river. According to numerous measurements
carried out near the headworks, sediment loads rise from 0.37 gr/liter in March to 5.4 gr/liter in July and
decrease to 1.6 gr/liter in October. During the winter there is insignificant sediment flow. The total annual
sediment load at the headworks is about 3.6 million m 3, about 2.25 million m3 of which enters the canal
system per year. Four sediment exclusion works and basins are in the Canal System, that were designed to
exclude about 1.25 million m of sediment from the Canal System. None of the sedimentation treatment
facilities is currently operable. The result is a high sedimentation intake and silting up of inter-farm and
farm canals and also a loss of storage in the Jeiranbatan Reservoir of around 2.5 million m 3 annually, so
that its live storage is now reportedly reduced from 150 to about 100 million m3.
The Government's Long-term Plan for the SAC System.
The Government has identified a long-term strategic plan for the SAC system to meet the growing
needs of Baku as well as the current and future irrigation demands. This plan envisages the following
elements:
*   Remodeling of the Khanarkh canal to assume part of the irrigation requirements of the first 50
kIn of the SAC service area;
*   Rehabilitation of the first 50 km of the SAC, with some remodeling to increase its capacity;
*   Diversion of additional minor rivers into the SAC;
*   Construction of a large new dam and reservoir; and
*   Construction of a new high level canal, taking off from the SAC at km 50 to supply the new
reservoir, Baku and the Baku-Apsheron service area without pumping.
The Government is working towards this plan with some elements about to be constructed (part of
- 39 -



the Khanarkh canal) and others being studied (the proposed new dam) under various donors. However,
there has not yet been an overall comprehensive feasibility study to integrate all elements, nor the
environmental and social studies required for the different components. Having regard to the uncertainties
as to the overall economics of the long-term plan, the proposed RIDIP is restricted to those elements of
rehabilitation which can be justified standing alone, while still compatible with the overall scheme.
Details of Works to be Financed under this Project.
Following the strategy stated above, the project would finance the following elements:
*   Rehabilitation of the headworks, comprising repairs to the apron, downstream secondary weir,
upstream guide banks, the superstructure, replacement of all gates and lifting gear and safety
facilities such as standby generator and trash screening equipment (designs and draft bidding
documents have already been prepared);
*   Construction of a new regulator for the Khanarkh canal with a capacity of 30 m 3/sec and for
the SAC with a capacity of 55 nmi/sec;
*   Rehabilitation of sedimentation works based on a comprehensive study and elaboration of a
long-term, environmentally acceptable solution. The most important construction would be the
hydraulic flushing mechanism at the head of the canal. The feasibility level design determines
that 680,000 mi of silt can be excluded (about 30 percent of the load taken in per year);
*   Rehabilitation of the first 50 km of the SAC canal with repair and replacement of the damaged
concrete lining. A survey of the canal (it was emptied for this purpose) and all hydraulic
structures took place during project preparation and all sections that either need repair or
replacement of concrete and joints have been identified on maps. The works would include
20,000 m3 of concrete. (Enlargement and additional siphon barrels would not be included
unless a comprehensive feasibility study has been completed to standards acceptable to the
Association. The proposed enlargement would be achieved by raising the canal banks, which
can be done separately from rehabilitation without loss of economy.);
*   Rehabilitation of structures over 50 km, including: (a) offtakes for the 37 secondary
(inter-farm) canals, including new gates, measurement structures and remodeling to match their
service area; and (b) deteriorated road bridges, culverts, drops and escapes;
*   Rehabilitation and cleaning of the most deteriorated sections of the 37 inter-farm canals (total
length 264 kIn), including repair of critically damaged structures (also reflecting the
modifications resulting from their connection to the Khanarkh Canal); and
*   Design and construction supervision costs.
Table 1 shows the unit cost for the different works and materials. Table 2 presents the cost
summary for the proposed works for the SAC System.
-40 -



Table 1: Unit Cost for construction works in Azerbaijan (December 1999)
Cost
No   Item                                Unit    (US$)
Staff
1  Engineer                             hour         2.19
2  Foreman                              hour          0.89
3  Operator of construction machine     hour          0.72
4  Laborers, skilled                    hour          1.19
5  Laborers, unskilled                  hour          0.72
6  Secretary                            hour          0.30
7  Driver                               hour          1.07
8  Watchman                             hour          0.36
Construction materials
1  Natural sand                         m3           6.82
2  Natural gravel                        m3           9.09
3  Crushed sand                          m3          35.03
4  Crushed gravel                        m3          15.23
5  Cobbles                               m3          10.56
6  Brick                                piece         0.21
7  Cement                                 t          68.18
8  Concrete, B-10                        m3          59.72
9  Concrete, B-15                        m3          66.21
10  Concrete, B-25                       m3          71.66
11  Reinforcement steel                   t         350.00
Equipment
1  Concrete mixing plant                day       1638.00
2  Compactor, dynamic 180 PS            day         193.00
3  Compressor, 100 PS                   day         177.00
4  Cistern, 6000 L                      day         198.00
5  Concrete Pump                        day          72.45
6  Drilling rig                         day         198.90
7  Excavator, 75 PS                     day         235.50
8  Excavator, 150 PS                    day         283.00
9  Generator, 125 PS                    day         256.89
10  Mixer, 5 m3                          day         30.20
11  Mixer, 10m3                          day         42.90
12  Tractor, 100 PS                      day         86.90
13  Tractor, 180 PS                      day        138.00
14  Tractor, 320 PS                      day        271.00
15  Truck, 12t                           day        121.00
16  Truck, 5t                            day         43.50
17  Vibrator for concrete                day         27.00
- 41 -



Table 2: Summary of Investment cost for the
Rehabilitation of the SAC System (base cost)
Total cost
No.                        Item                           (US$)
I   Rehabilitation of Samur Headworks
1.1  Replacement of hydro-mechanical equipment              967,395
1.2  Repair aprons and dams at the intake structure       1,255,282
1.3  Construction of new regulator at SAC & Khanarkh intakes  255,456
Sub-total                                            2,478,133
1.4  Reconstruction of the desilting plant                3,233,364
2   Rehabilitation of SAC
2.1  Repair of SAC lining, structures and roads           3,286,870
2.2  Enlargement of SAC Canal                             2,281,200
2.3  Cleaning and desilting lakes at km 8 and 12 on SAC   1,669,552
Sub-total                                            7,237,622
3   Rehabilitation of the secondary irrigation system
3.1  Reconstruction of inter-farm systems of SAC          3,967,090
Total                                               16,916,209
Physical Contigencies                                1,691,621
Price contingencies                                  2,448,140
Grand Total SAC Sub-project                         21,055,970
Main Mill-Mugan Collector (MMMC
Description and History.
Drainage is essential for many irrigation systems in Azerbaijan, but most critical in the flat
low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyan plains totaling about 760,000 ha, where salinity has developed for
lack of natural drainage. (The SAC system has lighter textured soils and drainage and soil salinity are
mninor problems.) Rather than discharging drainage water in the Kura River, which would have increased
the salinity level of the river water to 3 gram/liter, it was decided by Government to construct collector
drains on both the left and right bank of the Kura River. In the 1950s the Main Shirvan Collector was
constructed to drain the left bank of the Kura River. The Main Mill-Karabakh Collector, draining the
upper part of the Kura right bank area, was connected to the Main Shirvan Collector via a siphon (25 mn
/sec capacity) under the Kura River. During the last decades irrigated areas on both river banks continued
to be enlarged and capacity of collectors were to be adapted accordingly. The capacity of the Main
Shirvan Collector is now 67 m3/sec.
- 42 -



By the early 1960s plans were finalized to provide a separate collector drain for the Kura right
bank area, as it was apparent that the Shirvan Collector would be overloaded. The right bank collector,
named the Main Mill-Mugan Collector was begun and the lower 60 km constructed by 1989, satisfactorily
draining the Mugan-Salyan plain into the Caspian Sea, with a designed outfall capacity of 107 m3/sec.
However, this left a gap of 83 km between the head of the MMMC and the right bank Main Mill-Karabakh
Collector. The Government is currently using a loan from the Islamic Development Bank to construct a
further 52 km, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2000 at a cost of US$ 16 million. This
leaves a 31 km missing link to complete this important strategic project, before about 240,000 ha can be
effectively drained.
Current Condition.
The current drainage situation is that the Main Mill-Karabakh Collector, carrying on average 25 m
3/sec, is overloading the Shirvan Collector, designed and constructed for 67 rn3/sec, which is the design
discharge of the left bank area only. In consequence drainage conditions on both banks of the Kura River
are deteriorating, leading to waterlogging and rising salinity and as a result reduced agricultural
productivity. About 180,000 ha on the left bank is somewhat affected, both upstream and downstream of
the junction with the Main Mill-Karabakh Collector. A further 20,000 ha is affected on the right bank as
the Mill-Karabakh is backed up for about 20 km by the overloaded siphon under the Kura River.
Drainage is most acutely affected in the area of about 36,500 ha around the missing link, where
pumped drainage is temporarily effected into Lake Sarisu and from there into the Kura River. Acute
drainage congestion in the Main Mill-Karabakh Collector is also temporarily relieved by discharge into the
Kura River. Both these temporary arrangements increase the salinity of the Kura River, impacting on
downstream fisheries, irrigation and Baku water supply. The salt content of the Kura water varies from
0.6 to 1.0 gr/liter. It can still be used for irrigation with some restrictions, but the quality for drinking
water is poor.
Completion of the MMMC would be important as this is a strategic drain, without which there can
be no further development or additional intensification of agriculture in this area.
Details of Works to be Financed under Project.
The proposed MMMC works are those necessary to complete the missing 31 km link to establish a
separate right bank outfall into the Caspian Sea and rehabilitate and improve the inter-farm collectors in the
immediate vicinity (36,500 ha). These comprise:
* Land acquisition (discussed in Section E of main report);
* Construction of the 31 km missing main collector channel from the Araz River siphon to
connect with the Main Mill-Karabakh Collector. The Collector's design capacity at the siphon
would be 58 m3/sec. The collector would be trapezoidal in shape, with a general cutting depth
of 7 m, bottom width varying from 16 to 30 m. Over 13 million m3 of soil would have to be
excavated;
* Service road along the MMMC;
* Completion of the Araz River siphon. The barrels of the siphon would have been completed
under Islamic Development Bank funding, but the appurtenant works, comprising diversion of
the river and associated embankments and erosion protection works, are not included in this
contract. The design discharge of the new river bed will be 1,477 mN/sec (designs and draft
- 43 -



bidding documents have already been prepared);
* One railway bridge across the MMMC, with a length of 130 m;
* Six road bridges across the MMMC, two for regional traffic and four for local traffic. The
length of the bridges would vary from 72 to 100 m and the width from 6.5 to 8 m. The bridges
would be founded on piles, because of adverse soil conditions. The upper construction would
be made out of prefabricated concrete elements;
*   Five irrigation aqueducts across the MMMC, one with a capacity of 6.15 mr/sec and the rest
with a capacity of 1 m'/sec. The length would vary from 66 to 90 m. The large one is
expected to be constructed as a steel flume and the others with steel pipes. All aqueducts
would be founded on steel piles;
* Reconstruction and rehabilitation of inter-farm collectors in 36,500 ha;
* Environmental mitigation measures; and
* Design and construction supervision costs.
Table 3 presents the cost summary for the MMMC works.
-44 -



Table 3: Summary of Construction
Costs for the MMMC (base cost)
Total costs
No.                   Item                  (US$)
1    General
1.1   Land Acquisition                        774,180
2    Construction of MMMC (31km)
2.1   Earth works for MMMC, incl. road      4,178,920
2.2   Bridge at 1136+60                       385,131
2.3   Bridge at 1226+00                       173,784
2.4   Bridge at 1357+65                       292,605
2.5   3 Bridges at 1368+00; 1410+50
1430+30=; L=72.32 m                    463,377
2.6   Railway Bridge                        1,189,485
2.7   Aqueduct Q=6.15m3/s                     166,056
2.8   4 Aqueducts Q=1.0m3/s                   260,398
Sub-total Bridges and Aqueducts       2,930,836
3    Completion of MMMC siphon on Araz
3.1   Fill of old Araz river bed (recultivation)  384,514
3.2   Excavation of new Araz river bed      1,386,737
3.3   Concrete side slope protection of
new Araz river at siphon              1,639,024
3.4   Construction of a new Araz river bed
above the siphon                      2,276,875
3.5   Bridge on new Araz river at siphon      678,490
Sub-total Siphon                      5,687,150
4    Rehabilitation of Inter-farm Collectors  950,000
5    Environmental Mitigating Measures       350,000
Total                                14,871,086
Physical contingencies                1,487,109
Price contingencies                   1,957,641
Grand Total MMMC Sub-project         18,315,836
- 45 -



Consulting Services
The PIU would contract out the services for design and supervision to a consulting firmn for the
duration of the project. The main tasks of the consultants would be to: (i) prepare design reports and
bidding documents, including surveys and investigations as needed, as well as the preparation of technical
specifications, engineering estimates, bill of quantities and tender drawings; (ii) assist the PIU with
construction supervision; and (iii) carry out specialized studies. All works would have to be carried out
according to recognized international standards, therefore construction supervision and quality control
according to modem and efficient methods would be important. The consultants team would include design
engineers, hydrologist, sediment specialist, costing engineer, contract specialist, construction engineers,
construction inspectors, clerks and surveyors. The total estimated base cost for these services are US$
1,640,000 (US$ 1,970,000 with contingencies).
The consultants would assist the PIU with setting up a construction management organization for
the purpose of supervision of the construction of the different sub-projects. The consultants would provide
for all personnel on site (resident engineers, inspectors, clerks, etc.) for inspection of the construction
works, installation of equipment, and the testing of construction materials, in order to ensure that the works
are imnplemented and goods supplied in accordance with the designs, specifications and terms and
conditions of the relevant civil works and supply contracts. In particular, the consultants would assist the
PIU with the following: (i) contract administration; (ii) inspection of all construction activities; (iii) testing
of materials on site; (iv) testing and inspection of goods and materials; (v) off-site laboratory testing, where
necessary; (vi) review of contractors' submittals; (vii) verification of progress payment requests; (viii)
preparation of monthly progress reports; (ix) assist in contract acceptance and close-out; and (x) assist in
dispute resolutions, when necessary.
Project Component 2 - US$1.98 million
Institutional Strengthening
The project would provide institutional support to make a start with the improvement of the quality
and sustainability of irrigation management. There would be four sub-components:
Institutional Support for SAC Management
This sub-component would provide support (technical assistance and goods) for SAC management
in order to make a start with the development of an organization that is cost effective and efficient with
strong customer orientation and delivers quality water services that customers want and eventually
prepared to pay for. The project would provide technical assistance to review the work practices, processes
and skills of the SAC Management Unit (MU) and the District Irrigation Exploitation Units (IEUs) in the
SAC area, as well as the coordination between these different offices and the water users. The most
important tasks to be carried out by the consultants would be to: (i) review the current activities carried out
by the MU and IEUs and identify their core activities; (ii) review the current organizational structure of the
MU and IEUs and their human resources allocated to each activity and assess organizational and capacity
issues, which would be needed to be addressed to improve their performance; (iii) review the current level
of internal and external control on technical and administrative matters, identify any issues needed to be
resolved to increase accountability and develop a plan for the possible reorganization of the MU and IEUs;
(iv) review the current level of coordination for the water allocation among MU and IEUs and identify any
constraints and possibility to improve their efficiency; (v) review the MU and IEUs' overall financial
- 46 -



situation including the status of fixed assets, in particular, analyze the 1998 and 1999 financial statements,
identify the incurred expenditures and generated revenue for each activity, provide a breakdown on a
territorial (IEU) basis; (vi) review the required operation and maintenance costs and the affordability of
irrigation water for farmers during the next five years, identify the possible saving in the operation and
maintenance from the improved efficiency and develop a realistic plan to phase out/reduce the subsidies for
irrigation activities for the MU and IEUs; and (vii) identify any constraints related to the management
information system and design a suitable modernized management information system. The TA team
would prepare proposals to improve the management of the SAC system (which would include plans for
necessary reorganization and skill improvements), establish solid accounting and pricing principles to
improve transparency and accountability and develop and implement a management information system
and a system to improve collection of ISF. During the second phase, the consultants would assist the SAIC
in implementing the recommended actions prepared and agreed during the first phase.
This sub-component would provide technical assistance (10.5 pm international and 25 pm national
staff) and some office equipment for the MU. The consultants would include expertise in irrigation
engineering, financial analysis, public institutional building and management information system. The total
base cost is estimated at US$ 294,000 (US$ 334,000 with contingencies).
Development of an Irrigation and Drainage Sub-sector Strategy
This sub-component would provide technical assistance to develop an irrigation and drainage
sub-sector strategy, that would identify irrigation schemes with an economic potential for continuation of
irrigation and the institutional needs required to achieve this. The activities to be carried out by consultants
would include: (i) provision of an overview of the agriculture sector, establishing the context of irrigation
within a framework of an overall macro economic policy; (ii) review of the economics of irrigation for the
main irrigated crops; (iii) review the economics and finances of the other land reclamation activities such as
drainage, flood control and erosion protection; (iv) preparation of financial analyses to establish payment
capacity and indicate a viable irrigation tariff structure; (v) determination of the needed institutional
developments for a sustainable sub-sector; (vi) assessment of the social impact of anticipated system
closures and identify alternative farming systems or other activities and appropriate transitional support for
schemes to be closed; (vii) assessment of any environmental impacts consequent on closure; and (viii)
defining the future scope for irrigation, development of classification criteria for existing irrigation schemes
regarding economic viability and identification of schemes for priority rehabilitation.
This sub-component would provide technical assistance (7.5 pm international and 10 pm national
staff). The consultants would include expertise in irrigation engineering, economics, agronomy,
environment and sociology. The total base cost is estimated at US$ 177,000 (US$ 200,000 with
contingencies). The services for this sub-component are expected to be tendered in one package with the
preceding sub-component.
Training and Study Tours
This sub-component would support various national and international training activities and study
tours to selected countries. The planned training would cover a wide range of topics such as: project
administration (accounting, procurement) for PIU staff and modern design and operation and maintenance
practices for irrigation and drainage systems for PIU and selected SAIC staff. Study tours would be
carried out to provide PIU and SAIC staff with exposure to modernized engineering technologies and
successful cases of institutional reform in the irrigation and drainage sub-sector. It is noted that, in
addition to formnal training and study tours, all TA consultants would have to provide on-the-job training.
- 47 -



The base cost for training and study tours is US$ 250,000 (US$ 290,000 with contingencies).
Development of a Long-term Strategy and Feasibility Study for SAC
This sub-component would provide for a comprehensive two-stage study of the potential future
development of the SAC system. It would assess irrigation, domestic, industrial and environmental water
demands upon the SAC system, integrate all existing studies, complete missing study elements, develop a
long-term plan (to 2020 or other agreed horizon) and bring all feasibility studies to a level to support
requests for future donor investment in SAC's infrastructure. The issues include the future competition for
water between agriculture and Baku, the need for protection of the upstream catchments (in the interests of
both irrigation and water supply), the environmental needs of the lower riverine areas of the Samur and the
other minor rivers of the Kusari hills and the environmental aspects of groundwater development balanced
against river abstractions. At the same time the issue of losses within Baku require prior attention and a
decision is required on the balance between Samur and Kura rivers for supply of Baku before targets can
be established for SAC's contribution to Baku. It is also clear that most of the financial and economic
justification for further development of the SAC system would depend on delivery of water to Baku. This
study would link with the two study activities described above and propose the long-term future
management structure and financial plan for the SAC. The study should therefore have a broad focus.
About 40 international and 80 national staff pm are proposed and would include, among others, expertise
in engineering, dam development, economy, agronomy, water supply, hydrology, sociology and
environment. The base cost for this sub-component is US$ 1,000,000 (US$ 1,160,000 with contingencies).
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.74 million
Project Implementation Support
This component would comprise the following four sub-components:
Support to Project Implementation Unit
The project would finance part (70 percent) of the incremental staff salaries of the PIU, equipment
and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency of the PIU office and the incremental operating
expenses of the office and vehicles. The PIU would be staffed with a Project Director, Design Engineer,
Construction Supervisor (2), Procurement Specialist, Accountant, Environmental Specialist, M&E
Specialist, Interpreter and Support Staff. The estimated base cost for the support to the PIU is US$
1,040,000 (US$ 1,247,000 with contingencies).
Technical Assistance to PIU
There is limited experience in SAIC to implement investment programs supported by international
financing organizations. As SAIC is increasingly sourcing financing to carry out its development program,
the development of capacity to work with donors and financiers would be very important. A small team of
international consultants would be recruited to support the PIU during the first 18 months of project
implementation. Most of the consultants would carry out short-term assistance, with the exception of a
technical adviser, who would be in the country for the first 18 months of project implementation. The
short-term consultants would include specialists in construction supervision, engineering design,
procurement, environment, sedimentation and monitoring and evaluation. The total estimated person
months is 60.5 and the base cost for the services is estimated at US$ 1,084,000 (US$ 1,177,000 with
contingencies).
- 48 -



Environmental and Project Monitoring
To administer and conduct the environmental monitoring program, the PIU would have a full-time
enviromnental specialist, a short-term environmental advisor and a full-time monitoring and evaluation
specialist. The advisor would be fielded during the early stage of the project to set up the M&E
environmental system, including a Geographical Information System (GIS). The PIU's monitoring staff
would coordinate specific regional surveys (for hydrology, geohydrology, soil quality, water quality, health
situation and socio-economic key parameters) in the project's two command areas and as such would
coordinate and collaborate with governmental organization and institutes, such as State Committee on
Ecology and Committee of State Hydrometeorology. Annual monitoring surveys would also be conducted
to determine the progress with project outputs and impacts. The base costs for the surveys is estimated at
US$ 200,000 (US$ 226,000 with contingencies)
Project audit
An audit firm for the annual audit of project accounts would be financed from Credit funds during
the life of the project (base cost US$ 80,000; with contingencies US$ 92,000).
- 49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Project Component Cost Summary
%     % Total
(US$ 000)                Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
1. Technical Assistance for Design and Supervision                        456.41     1,203.27      1,659.68       73        4
2. Rehabilitation of SamurApsheron Canal System                        11,983.44     5,135.76     17,119.19       30       44
3. Completion of Mill Mugan Collector Drain                             8,629.81     6            15,049.54       43       39
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure                          21,069.66    12,758.76    33,828.42        38       87
B. Institutional Strengthening
Development of SAC and MMMC Management                                         -       297.12       297.12       100        1
Feasibility Study for SAC Expansion                                                  1,012.00      1,012.00      100        3
Jrrigation Subsector Review                                                    -       179.12       179.12       100
Training and Study Tours                                                       -       253.00       253.00       100        1
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                                             -     1,741.25      1,741.25      100        4
C. Project Implementation Support
1. Technical Assistance to PIU
International Assistance to PIU                                              -     1,097.01     1,097.01       100        3
2. Project Implementation and Administration Support
National Professional Staff                                             354.60            -       354.60         -        1
PIU Equipment and Office Renovation                                      30.67       251.08       281.94        89        1
Supporl Staff                                                            72.86            -        72.86
Subtotal Project Implementation and Administration Support                458633       251.08       709.41        35        2
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                                              161.92        40.46       202.40        20        1
4. Incremental Operating Cost                                             257.05        84.50       341.55        25        1
5. Project Account Auditing                                                    -        80.96        80.96       100
Subtotal Project Implementation Support                                     877.30     1,554.03     2,431.33        64        6
D. Repayment of PPF                                                         160.00       640.00       800.00        80        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      22,106.96    16,694.03    38,800.99       43      100
Physical Contingencies                                                  2,161.73     1,334.70     3,496.43        38        9
-rice Contingencies                                                     2,714.19     1.853.87      4,568.06       41       12
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       26,962.87    19,882.61    46,865.48       42      121
Project Cost Summary - Expenditure Accounts
%       % Total
(US$ '000)                      Foreign      Base
Local          Foreign          Total       Exchange   Costs
!. Investment Costs
Land                                                      783.47                -         783.47             -          2
Works                                                  19,853.05       11,578.77       31,431.82           37          81
Repayment of PPF                                          160.00          640.00          800.00           80           2
Goods                                                       7.59          269.90          277.49           97           1
Consultants' Services and Training                        456.41        4,080.38        4,536.80           90          12
Total Investment Costs                                   21,260.52       16,569.05       37,829.58            44         97
il. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Operating Cost                                846.44          124.98          971.42           13           3
Total Recurrent Costs                                       846.44           124.98          971.42           13          3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      22,106.96       16,694.03       38,800.99            43        100
Physical Contingencies                                  2,161.73        1,334.70        3,496.43           38           9
Price Contingencies                                     2,714.19        1,853.87        4,568.06           41         12
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       26,982.87       19,882.61       46,865.48            42        121
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
A separate economic analysis was carried out for each of the two sub-projects to be financed under
the project - the Samur-Apsheron Canal and the Main Mill-Mugan Collector. In general, the project's main
economic benefit would come from: (a) increases in yield; and (b) conversions to higher value crops. In
addition, improvements to the SAC would secure the water supply to 40 percent of Baku's population.
Given the current crisis in Azerbaijan's agriculture sector, it is not clear whether farmers would
resume irrigated agriculture and take full benefit of the project - and this may remain unclear for at least
the next 3-5 years. While in the Soviet era agriculture accounted for about 30 percent of GDP and 45
percent of overall employment, with the collapse of regional markets and the privatization of state and
collective farms, the mode of agriculture in Azerbaijan has returned to subsistence farming with minimum
inputs and output. Output has fallen by more than two thirds since 1990 and average yields in the project
area (for 1993-1997) fell to 50 to 60 percent of what they were in the 1980s. (However, it should be noted
that in 1998 there was a first sign of an upward trend towards increasing productivity, particularly for
vegetable production, due to the better availability of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, and due to
the improved security for newly established farms that land titles provided.)
The situation for viticulture is also steadily worsening. A number of vineyards have already been
abandoned due to the lack of marketing opportunities. Others produce only marginal yields due either to a
lack of maintenance or to the plant disease, Phylloxera.
In addition, the recent development of the oil and gas sector could have a serious impact on the
development of agriculture. It could trigger a currency appreciation, increasing labor costs and reducing
the competitiveness of other internationally tradable commodities such as cotton and wheat. On the
positive side, however, an increase in revenue from the oil and gas sector would provide funds for
rehabilitating and constructing infrastructure that would help increase rural productivity. Also, overall
economic growth may increase the demand for seasonal fruits and vegetables. The impact of these
possibilities on the sub-projects' overall economic viability are examined in the sensitivity analysis below.
The scenario developed in this economic analysis is rather conservative, and reflects the discussion
above. For example, increases in yields and crop conversion are assumed to take place in full not before 10
years after the completion of the sub-projects. It is also assumed that the 1989 level of irrigation would be
restored under the 'with-project' scenario.
Economic Rates of Return (ERR) estimated for the SAC and MMMC sub-projects are 23.3 and
16.4 percent respectively, showing that these sub-projects would have sufficient economic viability. The
Net Present Values (NPV) discounted at 12 percent were US$ 16.3 million for the SAC sub-project and
US$ 11.4 million for MMMC.
- 51 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A. Assumptions Regarding Project Benefit
1.     General
Prices for various crops have been estimated based on: (a) the World Bank commodity price
forecast for internationally traded crops (wheat, maize grain), and (b) market prices for other crops. The
results are summarized in Table 1 below:
Table 1. Estimated
Economic Crop Prices
Crops               Price
(Manat/kg)
wheat               700
cotton              1,090
fodder              196
fruits              775
grapes              750
vegetables          500
2.     SAC
The SAC sub-project covers the specific area that is irrigated by the Samur-Apsheron Canal
between the Samur River and the Velvelichay River (50 km of main canal) and the area that is or will be
irrigated by the Khanarkh Canal. Most of the state and cooperative farms in the project area were
privatized in 1997-98 and land registration was well advanced by 1999. The new farms in the project area
are very small (2-3 ha) and some forms of joint family production and cooperatives have been established.
The current cropping pattern on the net irrigated land is 39 percent cereals, 25 percent fruits, 25 percent
fodder crops, 5 percent vegetables and 6 percent other perennial crops (mainly grapes). The predominant
cereal grown is wheat; major fruits are apples, pears and quince. Fodder crops mainly include alfalfa and
maize; vegetables include tomatoes, cucumbers, cabbage, beans, salad greens and potatoes.
The SAC sub-project primarily aims to rehabilitate the upper 50 kilometers of the canal, which
delivers water from the Samur River first to various irrigation schemes covering some 86,000 hectares
located along the SAC, and then to the Jeiranbatan Reservoir located in the suburb of Baku, from which the
Baku Water Supply Company delivers drinking water to Baku and the surrounding area. The sub-project
comprises rehabilitation and repairs to headworks, rehabilitation of deteriorated lining of the SAC and
rehabilitation of secondary canals delivering water from the SAC to on-farm irrigation facilities. The
major economic benefits of the sub-project are: (a) an increase in agricultural incomes resulting from
- 52 -



reliable irrigation water; and (b) securing the current level of water delivery to Baku and its surrounding
area. Detailed project benefits are estimated based on the assumptions presented in the next section.
3.   MMMC
The area covered under sub-project MMMC is a cotton, wheat and forage producing area. The
cropping pattern on the net irrigated area is 33 percent industrial crops (mainly cotton), 45 percent cereals
(mainly wheat), 21 percent forage (mainly Alfalfa and grass/hay production) and 1 percent vegetables.
Yields are very low at present: 1.4 tons per hectare of cotton, 1.8 tons per hectare of wheat and 4.7 tons per
hectare of forage (average 1993-1998 in Imishli district). These low yields are mainly due to: (a) soil
salinity and water logging problems; (b) low irrigation efficiency; and (c) general problems resulting from
the transition to private farming. Some areas have already been abandoned, mainly due to soil salinity, and
are now used as pasture for sheep and cattle breeding. As for most of Azerbaijan's arable land, irrigation is
essential for crop production, and in the case of the MMMC project area, drainage and leaching are also
essential because of the soil salinity and water logging problems.
The MMMC project area is a traditional irrigation area along the rivers Kura and Araz. In the
1950s and 1960s, an irrigation and drainage system was constructed north and south of the Kura River.
South of the river, irrigation water flows from the Mingachevir Reservoir through the Mill-Karabakh Canal
to the plain. Drainage water flows to the Main Mill-Karabakh Collector, which is currently diverted to the
Shirvan Collector in the North via a siphon under the Kura River. The proposed MMMC sub-project
would construct the missing link of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector (31 km), aiming to separate the
drainage system on the right and the left bank of the Kura River. This would improve the drainage at the
Mill-Karabakh Collector on the right bank, as well as relieve the current congestion on the left bank. The
MMMC sub-project would also rehabilitate and reconstruct interfarm drainage system in the immediate
vicinity of the link. The major economic benefits of the sub-project would be: (a) an increase in
agricultural production resulting from a lower water table and a corresponding reduction in salinity; and (b)
some reduction of pumping costs. Detailed project benefits are estimated based on the assumptions
presented in the next section.
B.    Project Costs
Project costs, including rehabilitation, operation and maintenance, have been converted to
economic prices. In particular, efforts have been made to identify the unskilled labor component. A
shadow wage of Manat 10,000 (about US$2.00 per day) is used to convert the unskilled labor. This value
is considered reasonable, particularly given the country's high level of unemployment, which is most acute
in rural areas. The following assumptions have been made to convert financial costs to economic costs.
* Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) is considered to be I (one), as apparently there is no
exchange rate premium;
*   The conversion factor for engineering works and for replacements is estimated at 0.95, and the
O&M at 0.98, considering the involvement of unskilled labor; and
- 53 -



*  Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 3 percent of the investment costs.
Main Assumptions:
1.    SAC
Increase in Agriculture Income. The SAC sub-project would increase the delivery of irrigation
water to areas covering some 86,000 hectares of irrigable land in eight raions. After the breakup of the
Soviet Union, the regional markets collapsed, and the agriculture sector fell into disarray. The result was a
sharp decline in irrigation, low cost recovery, deferred maintenance and physical deterioration of the
irrigation canals. Table 2 indicates a sharp decline in both the size of the irrigated area and in the amount
of water delivered to the irrigated area from 1989 to 1998. Headworks, main canals and secondary canals
are badly deteriorated and it is expected that irrigation would decline even further without the proposed
sub-project. In estimating the economic rate of return, the following assumptions were made, considering
that the project aims to rehabilitate only primary and secondary canals.
*   Without the project in the three raions located within the first 50 km of the SAC (Guba, Gusan and
Khachnaz), the area irrigated in 2010 would represent a further decline to 80 percent of the 1998
level. With the project, the area irrigated in 2010 would be an increase to 80 percent of the 1989
irrigation area; and
=   Without the project in the four raions located downstream of the first 50 km of the SAC (Davachi
Siazan, Khizi and Apsheron), the area irrigated in 2010 would fall to 50 percent of the 1998 level.
With the project, the area irrigated in 2010 would increase to 60 percent of the area irrigated in
1989.
Table 2. Irrigated Area and Delivered Irrigation Water along the SAC
Rayon        1989          1989          1998           1998        Irrigated Area   Irrigated Area
Irrigated    Delivered      Irrigated     Delivered   in 2010         in 2010 (with
Area (ha)    Water          Area (ha)     Water       (without        project)
(million m3)                (million     project)
m3)
Guba         4,351        27.60          3,403          13.95       2,722           3,481
Gusan        15,501       99.11          7,403          29.00       5,922           12,401
Khachnaz     33,395        236.36        17,000         84.30       13,600          26,716
Davachi      20,020        129.57        9,420          57.20       4,710           12,012
Siazan       NA                          3,287          9.20        1,644           3,287
Khizi        NA                          3,140          8.20        1,570           3,140
Apsheron     13,390        117.7         8,180          51.80       4,090           8,034
TOTAL        86,657        610.34        51,883         253.65      34,258          69,071
- 54 -



Yields. It is very difficult to estimate the yield increase for the project, as the information base for
crop budgets is poor. No systematic survey has been carried out since the collapse of the Soviet regime.
State and collective farns are still being privatized, and there are huge variations in yields and crop budgets
among farms. The assumptions summarized in Table 3 below were made based on information gathered
from the Country Economic Memorandum, local experts and field visits. It should be noted that yields
would increase substantially even under the 'without project' (unirrigated) scenario, as farmers would
gradually return to more serious agriculture using inputs such as fertilizer and/or pesticide.
Table 3. Yields for SAC Sub-Project at Year 2010
With and Without Project (unit: t/hectare)
Current    Without        With Project
Project
(irrigated)   (irrigated)
Wheat        1.7         2.4           3.2
Fruits       3.7         4.6           6.6
Fodder       3.4         5.5           8.0
Vegetables    12.5       15.6           19.5
Grapes       0.7         1.5           3.0
Cropping Patterns. Cropping patterns tend to change gradually over a period of years because
farmers are generally conservative about changing them. Conversion to higher value crops such as
vegetables would occur only when farmers become confident in the reliability of irrigation water and when
markets for the new crops develop. Without the project, grape production would gradually be replaced by
vegetables and fodder. With the project, farmers would gradually increase cropping intensity, due partly to
winter wheat and vegetables.
Table 4. Cropping Patterns for SAC Sub-Project With and Without Project (percent)
Current    2010 - Without     2010 - With
the Project       the Project
Wheat       42.0        42.0               43.0
Fruit       29.6        30.0               35.0
Fodder      10.9        13.0               14.0
Vegetables   7.2        8.0                9.0
Grapes      3.9         2.0                2.0
Intensity   93.6        95.0               103.0
- 55 -



Water Supply to Baku. Securing water delivery to Baku would also be a major benefit of the
project. About half of the water extracted from the Samur River would eventually be delivered to the
Jeiranbatan Reservoir. From the Jeiranbatan Reservoir, the Apsheron Water Company (AWC) would
supply water to about 40 percent of the population of greater Baku. Baku is currently suffering from a
shortage of water and a reduction in water delivery resulting from deterioration of headworks and main
canals would exacerbate that shortage. However, the IDA Baku Water Rehabilitation Project is currently
under implementation and should help the AWC to decrease leakages so that less water would be needed.
In summary, the following assumptions were used to quantify the economic benefit regarding water supply
to Baku.
* Considering the priority given to Baku's water supply, without the project SAC would still
deliver 90 percent of the current level (270 million cubic meters) to the Jeiranbatan Reservoir
at Project Year 10;
* The marginal economic benefit of water supply would be US$ 0.66 per cubic meter, converted
to 1999 prices from the quantified benefit of incremental water estimated at the appraisal of the
Baku Water Rehabilitation Project; and
* Considering the current level of water leakage, it is assumed that only 50 percent of the water
delivered to Jeiranbatan Reservoir is eventually delivered to customers.
2. MMMC
Increase in Agriculture Production
The With-Project Scenario. The MMMC sub-project would first benefit the areas adjacent to the
completed section of the collector, some 36,500 hectares. Yields should increase substantially due to the
improved drainage. And once farmers recognize the improvement to the soil, they would very likely
increase their use of fertilizer and eventually convert to more competitive crops. In the long term, the
sub-project would also improve drainage for the entire area served by the Mill-Karabakh Collector. In this
context, it is assumed that the project would increase the agricultural benefit by 10 percent for an additional
200,000 hectares from Year 10 onwards. For these additional 200,000 hectares, the current cropping
pattem is assumed.
The Without-Project Scenario. Without the project, cropping pattems, yields, and gross margins
would decrease due to a gradual increase in salinity levels. Farmers would decrease their efforts to farm
these saline and water logged areas, and land now irrigated would gradually turn to pasture, as some
farmers would give up agriculture entirely. As a result, the irrigation area would decrease from the current
36,500 hectares to about 27,000 hectares in year 2010.
Yields, irrigation areas, and cropping patterns under with- and without-project scenarios are
summarized in Tables 5 and 6 below.
- 56 -



Table 5. Yields With and Without Project (unit: t/hectare)
Crops                           Present    Without-    With-
Project     Project
Cereals (wheat, etc.)           1.8         1.5          3.0
Industrial Crops (cotton, etc.)  1.4        1.0          2.5
Fodder (alfalfa, hay, etc.)     4.7         4.0          7.0
Vegetables                      10.0        8.0          15.0
Table 6. Irrigation Area and Crop Patterns (unit: hectares)
Crops                     Present     Without-      With-
Project      Project
Net irrigated area (ha)    36,500     27,000        36,500
Cereals                   45%         42%           42%
Cotton                    33%         20%           34%
Fodder crops               21%        25%           20%
Vegetables                 I %        2%            4%
Additional pasture         0%         11%           0%
Total                      100%       100%          100%
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the project's response to various risks. The
following risks were identified as potentially having substantial impacts on the project's economic viability.
* Scenario A: Delay in achieving the full benefit from irrigation. Considering Azerbaijan's
extremely limited experience with private farming, their current level of off-farm irrigation
technology, the limited access to markets, and the limited availability of high quality inputs
(e.g., seeds, fertilizer), the expected increase in yields may not be fully achieved. An
altemative ERR was estimated based on the assumption that the full benefit from irrigation
would be achieved after 15 years;
*   Scenario B. Appreciation of the local currency. The expected boom in the oil and gas
industry may result in an appreciation of the exchange rate. This would result in a substantial
decrease in the economic prices for wheat and cotton, which are intemational commodities.
- 57 -



Considering these factors, an alternative ERR was estimated, assuming that the local currency
appreciates by 10 percent;
*  Scenario C. Increases in rehabilitation costs. A sensitivity analysis for an increase in
rehabilitation costs was completed, examining the possibilities of additional rehabilitation
works being identified during project implementation. An alternative ERR was estimated
assuming a 20 percent increase in rehabilitation costs. (A second analysis assuming a 100
percent increase in rehabilitation costs determined that the ERR would be 14.3 for SAC and
9.7 for MMMC.);
*  Scenario D. Slower adoption of HVCs. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the
impact of farmers not converting to higher value crops due to persisting marketing problems.
Under the analysis in the with-project case, an alternative ERR was estimated assuming that no
adoption of HVCs takes place, and that the current cropping patterns would continue; and
*  Scenario E. Lower than anticipated crop prices. To test the project's sensitivity to decreases
in overall crop prices, a sensitivity analysis was conducted assuming a 20 percent decline in
prices.
Table 7 shows the results of estimated ERRs in the base case and for the sensitivity analyses. As
both of these sub-projects aim to either rehabilitate or complete part of larger irrigation and drainage
scheme and take advantage of large sunk costs, the ERRs are sufficiently high. It should be noted that
ERRs for both sub-projects are still adequate under Scenarios A through D, which assume the risks of
limited marketing, higher rehabilitation costs, and appreciation of the local currency. It also should be
noted that the returns for the SAC sub-project are significantly higher than the MMMC because of the
benefit of the water supply to Baku. Without the benefit to the water supply, the ERR for the SAC
sub-project would decrease to 17.3 percent. For Scenario E, the analysis shows some sensitivity to price
decreases, though for both the SAC and the MMMC, the ERRs remain above the discount rate.
Table 7. Estimated ERRs and Results of Sensitivity Analyses for Both Sub-Projects (percent)
Base Case   Scenario    Scenario    Scenario C    Scenario D    Scenario E
A          B
SAC          23.3         20.6       20.9        20.7         20.6         12.5
MMMC         16.4         14.2       13.2        14.5         15.2         15.0
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Summary of Financing in Calendar Years (starting in January)
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ ,000)
2000     2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      Total
Total Investment Costs        -   9,559.2  10,577.9  12,415.6  10,000.5   3,140.5  45,693.7
Total Recurrent Costs         -     228.2     229.5     235.2      236.5     242.4   1,171.8
Total PROJECT COSTS              -   9,787.4  10,807.4  12,650.8  10,237.0   3,382.9  46,865.5
EAYRT.xAs
Financing Sources
Implemenation Period
% of Total by Year    2000    2001       2002      2003      2004       2005      Total
IDA                   0.0%     84.2%     92.3%      90.7%     90.6%     89.8%I   89.7%
GOA                   0.0%     15.8%      7.7%       9.3%      9.4%     10.2%J    10.3%
Total %               0.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%I    100%
1$(,000)             2000    2001        2002      2003       2004      2005         Total
IDA                    -       8,242     9,972    11,479      9,275     3,037    42,005
GOA                    -       1,546       835      1,172       962       346      4,861
Total                  -       9,787    10,807    12,651    10,237      3,383    46,866
From detail tables
Disbursement by World Bank, by Fiscal Year
$(.000)              2001     2002      2003       2004      2005      2006         Total
IDA                 2,060      8,674    10,349    10,928      7,716     2,278    42,005
GOA                   386      1,368       919      1,119       808       260      4,861
Total               2,447    10,042    11,268    12,048       8,524     2,537    46,866
- 59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Procurement
General: Procurement of works and goods would be done in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). The Borrower would use the Bank's standard bidding
documents for goods and works, including the Bank's regional sample documents. Consulting services and
training would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines - Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). For
the consulting assignments the Borrower would use the relevant Banks standard forms of contract. Any
goods, works and services not financed by the IDA would be procured in accordance with the National
Public Procurement Legislation. The General Procurement Notice has been published in the January 31,
2000 issue of the United Nations 'Development Business'.
Procurement responsibilities: Responsibility for all procurement would rest with the PIU, which
is already in place for the implementation of the ongoing preparation of the proposed Project. A full-time
procurement officer has recently been recruited (April 2000). In order to ensure that the PIU staff would
be fully informed about the RIDIP and be aware of all Bank procurement guidelines, a procurement launch
workshop is scheduled to be conducted in October 2000. During the first 18 months of project
implementation the PIU would be assisted by a technical assistance team that includes a full-time Advisor
and short-term Procurement Advisor.
Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and recorded and quarterly
reports would be sent to the IDA. These reports would also indicate: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions and completion time;
(iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
An assessment of PIU capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the criteria
outlined in Annex 3 of LACI Implementation Handbook was completed. This review addressed the legal
aspects, procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the procurement unit in the PIU,
support and control systems, record keeping and staffing. The review assessed the risks (institutional,
political, procedural, etc.) that may negatively affect the ability of the PIU to carry out procurement
processes. Azerbaijan has procurement legislation in place and has an independent public procurement
agency. The legislation lacks harmony and consistency and it will take some time before the provisions of
the Law are translated into practice. In addition, the economic atmosphere in the country in which the Law
operates is not yet conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes. Therefore, it is a "high risk"
country from a procurement point of view.
The prior review thresholds reconmnended are those applicable to a "high risk" country. In
collaboration with the PIU an action plan to address deficiencies has been prepared to strengthen PlU's
capacity to administer procurement in an effective and transparent way. The plan includes: (i) the
procurement officer, who was recently recruited, shall be adequately trained and acquire at least working
knowledge of the English language to effectively handle international procurement and interaction with the
Association and contractors. The officer would participate in at least one international procurement
- 60 -



training course, while he would receive on-the-job training from the PIU Advisor and Procurement Expert;
(ii) a procurement book containing the Bank's standard procurement documents would be provided to the
PIU soon after Board presentation; (iii) the project launch workshop which is scheduled for October 2000
shall devote adequate time to updating the PIU staff procurement skills. During this workshop, the
contents of the procurement book shall be explained to the PIU procurement staff and other PIU staff; (iv)
at least during the first two years of project implementation a procurement specialist would join two
supervision missions per year, not only to conduct ex-post reviews (there are few packages that are not
subject to prior-review), but especially to provide guidance and support to the PIU in carrying out the
procurement plan and activities; (v) the PIU would establish a computerized procurement monitoring
system; and (vi) a minimum of one in every three contracts representing different procurement methods (not
subject to prior Bank review) shall be reviewed on an ex-post basis during project implementation.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works: The project would canTy out rehabilitation works of the SAC System and completion
of the MMMC through an estimated 1 1 contracts. All works shall be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Office renovation would be procured under Minor Works procedures, with an
aggregate value of US$ 50,000.
Goods: The goods to be financed in the project would include vehicles, office equipment, field and
environmental monitoring equipment and fumiture. ICB shall be used for the purchase of goods estimated
to cost more than US$ 100,000 per contract. International Shopping (IS), based on a comparison of quotes
from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, shall be used for contracts estimated to cost
between US$ 25,000 and US$ 100,000 per package. The aggregate value for IS is not expected to exceed
US$ 126,000 (all IDA financed). National Shopping (NS) procedures shall be used for contracts estimated
to cost less than US$ 25,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 55,000 (US$ 43,000 to be financed
by the IDA).
Consultant Services: PIU staff would be recruited as individual consultants, in accordance with
Part V of the Consultants Guidelines (9 contracts for US$ 436,000 equivalent in aggregate; IDA to finance
US$ 305,000). The following services would be procured through Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS): (i) a consulting firm to provide technical assistance to the PIU; (ii) a consulting firm for design
and supervision of the SAC and MMMC; (iii) a consulting firm for the preparation of the feasibility study
for the long-term development of the SAC system; and (iv) a consulting firm to prepare the sub-sector
review and to assist in the institutional support program for SAC management. These four contracts would
have an aggregate value of US$ 4,750,000 and would be IDA financed. Audit services would be procured
through Least Cost method (one contract valued at US$ 92,000; IDA financed). The Financial
Management Consultant that was recruited under the Japanese Grant for preparation activities would be
offered an extension of contract to train the PIU staff on the use of the financial management system
(Single-Source Selection; US$ 43,000 - IDA financed).
Training: Training and study tours shall be carried out according to a training plan, which the
PIU will revise semi-annually and submit to the IDA for approval prior to implementation. The total
estimated budget for training and study tours is US$ 290,000 (IDA financed).
Incremental Operating Costs: The project would finance incremental operating costs of about
US$ 740,000 (US$ 515,000 to be financed by IDA). These costs would include: (i) operation and
maintenance of equipment and vehicles used under the project; (ii) salaries and travel allowance for PIU
- 61 -



staff; (iii) office rent and utilities; (iv) office supplies and telecommunication; (v) support staff expenses;
and (vi) monitoring and evaluation studies for project and environment. Incremental operating costs would
be procured on the basis of an annual budget to be agreed with the Association.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
International
(US$'000)                                        Competitive    International    Local       Other         Consulting
Bidding       Shopping    Shopping (see footnotes)       Services      N.B.F.       Total
A. Works                                             38,455.04                     49.52             -                                  38,504.56
(34,878.72)                   (44.57)                                              (34,923.29)
B. Goods                                               117.88          126.33      54.21             -               -          -          298.42
(117.88)       (126.33)    (43.37)                                                 (287.58)
C. Services
1. Technical Assistance                                   -              -           -         43.06        2,779.96          -        2,823.02
(43.06)     (2,779.96)                  (2,823.02)
2. Design and Supervision Assistance                      -               -          -             -        1,969.59                   1,969.59
(1,969.59)                (1,969.59)
3. Audit Services                                         -               -          -         91.64               -          -           91.64
(91.64)                                   (91.64)
4. Training                                               -               -          -        289.70               -          -          289.70
(289.70)                                  (289.70)
D. Incremental Operating Costs
1. Salaries                                                                                        -          435.66          -         435.66
(304.96)                  (304.96)
2. PIU Operational Expenses                               -               -          -        736.12'              -          -          736.12
(515.29)                                  (515.29)
E. Land Acquisition                                         -               -          -             -               -     916.76          916.76
F. PPF                                                      -               -          -        800.005              -          -          800.00
(800.00)                                  (800.00)
Total                                                38,S72.92         126.33     103.73       1,960.83        5,185.20     916.76      46,865.48
(34,996.60)       (126.33)    (87.94)     (1,739.69)      (5,054.50)         -     (42,005.07)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1. Continuaton of Contract started under Japanese Grant for provision of finanaal management services.
2. Least Cost Selection for Audit Services
3. Training and Study Tour; financing based on semi-annual plan.
4. PIU Incremental Operationas Costs based on semi-annual plan.
5. Repayment of Project Preparation Facility
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts for works and goods would be subject to prior review by the Association. Also
the first two IS, the first Minor Works and the first NS contract would be subject to the Association's prior
review. This would include all documentation, including bidding documents, draft contract and evaluation
report.
For consultant services, prior review by the Association would be required for all terms of
reference irrespective of estimated contract value. Consulting firm contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Association's prior review (review would include the
Request for Proposals, the Terms of Reference, short-list, results of evaluations and draft contracts).
Contracts procured through Least-Cost Selection and Single-Source Selection will also be subject to prior
review. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 25,000 or more the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment would be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Association on a
random basis.
Any training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem, and trainers' fee) would
require prior approval.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Sobjed to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >200                     ICB                      38.5
<200                    NCB
<50                     MW                       0.05
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                      0.12
<100                     IS                      0.06
<25                     NS                       0.03
3. Services                     >100                    QCBS                      4.75
>25                  Ind. Cons.                  0.44
Audit Services               LC                      0.09
Financial Management            SSS                      0.04
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 44.1 million (IDA
to finance US$ 40.3
million)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 42.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of five
years. The proposed closing date for the project would be May 31, 2006. A condition for disbursement of
expenditures made in respect of Works would be that the Association has approved the design report of
each proposed rehabilitation or completion activity. The report would have to include: (a) a description of
design alternatives considered; (b) a detailed description of the selected alternative; (c) design criteria and
technical details of the proposed works; and (d) bill of quantities and cost estimates. Table C below shows
the allocation of Credit proceeds.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ex::Sff; ;penditre Ctegor       Amu   n US$ii:m i on00X   00 -Financing Pecetage0tf0 7700
Works                                      33.50                       90 percent
Goods                                       0.20           100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 80 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
Services and Training                       5.00                       100 percent
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.50                       70 percent
Refund of PPF                               0.80
Unallocated                                 2.00
Total Project Costs                        42.00
Total                                      42.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds would be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures.
Disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be as follows for each
expenditure category: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 each; (b) works under
contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US$ 100,000 each for
consulting firms and less than US$ 25,000 each for individual consultants; and (d) training and incremental
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify. Supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained by the Borrower, be made available to the Association during project supervision,
and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for
expenditures above these thresholds would be made against presentation of full documentation relating to
those expenditures.
Although project funds would initially be disbursed under the Association's established procedures,
there is the option of disbursing on the basis of submitted Project Management Reports (PMRs). A change
to PMR-based disbursements would however only be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and
the Association and would be considered once the PIU is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and
is considered able to produce sufficiently tirnely and reliable project management information. A change to
PMR-based disbursements would be considered by December 31, 2001.
- 64 -



PIU's accountant would receive necessary training to properly carry out the accounting activities
under the Project. During the project launch workshop there would be a session on proper preparation of
withdrawal applications, including the preparation and submission of needed supporting documents.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Goverunent would establish a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The Association would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 1.0 million.
Initially the allocation would be limited to US$ 500,000, -until disbursements have reached SDR 4.0
million, at which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment
of the SA would be submitted at least every three months and would have to be supported by the necessary
documentation including the SA bank statement and a reconciliation of this bank statement to the projects
accounting records. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The PIU would maintain a separate bank account (in local currency) to receive-and manage
Government counterpart contributions.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for financial management of the
project would rest with the PIU. The PIU includes one accountant; additional accountants would be
recruited as required during project implementation. The Association conducted a financial management
assessment of the PIU and concluded that the project's financial management arrangements do satisfy the
Association's minimum requirements. The main feature of the project's financial management
arrangements is that the PITJ has negotiated a contract with a local financial management consultant to: (i)
establish an accounting system prior to project effectiveness; (ii) train the PIU accountant in the operation
of that system; and (iii) oversee and be responsible for the operation of that system for the first few months
of the project before handing over such responsibilities to the PIU. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
contains a fuller description of the project's financial management arrangements.
Financial Management Risks: The financial management capacity within Azerbaijan has not been
the subject of a detailed review by IDA. However, primarily because of other implementation
considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the country's financial management capacity have been
mitigated by the use of a specialized project implementing agency, the PIU, for project implementation,
including its financial management, and by the Borrower's agreement to obtain the IDA's no-objection to
the appointment of the project's auditors. The specific weaknesses of the PIU in respect of its financial
management capacity would be addressed by a local financial management consultant, however, these
weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the Borrower nor of the Association. The
selected financial management consultant already has experience of successfully establishing and operating
the financial management system of a similarly complex IDA-financed project and therefore this
arrangement is not considered to contain any significant implementation risks. In addition, weaknesses in
the Azerbaijan banking sector would be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by the IDA to hold
the project's Special Account.
Project Management Reports: The agreed formats of the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
are included within the PIP and the PIU would produce a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project commencing with the quarter ending June 30, 2001, however, the PMRs
showing details of the sources of funds, expenditures by project component, expenditures by expenditure
- 65 -



category, and the Special Account, would be produced in respect of the quarter ending December 31, 2000
and quarterly thereafter.
Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association, as included within the PIP, would be
performed annually throughout the life of the project. The results of the audit of the RIDIP would be
available within six months of the end of every fiscal year and the cost of the audit would be financed by
the Credit. The appointment of the project's auditor is a condition of project effectiveness and the
appointed auditor would be retained, subject to satisfactory performance, for the life of the project.
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned  .                  Actal       L
At final PCD Stage
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             01/01/95                      01101/95
Appraisal mission departure                     09/20/99                      02/28/2000
Negotiations                                    10/20/99                      05/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2000
Prepared by:
The State Amelioration and Irrigation Comrnittee, with assistance from consulting firms for
engineering, environmental and social studies.
Preparation assistance:
* Japanese PHRD Grant of US$ 306,000; and
* Project Preparation Facility of US$ 800,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality-,
Joop Stoutjesdijk                 Irrigation Engineer / Task Team Leader (since October 1999)
Toru Konishi                      Senior Economist
Thirumangalam Sampath             Task Team Leader (until October 1999)
Janakiram Subramaniam             Financial Specialist
Joseph Goldberg                   Sector Manager
Naushad Khan                      Procurement Specialist
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement Specialist
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Rufiz Chirag-Zade                 Operations Officer
Dilek Barlas                      Legal Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                 Disbursement Officer
Neal Mountstephens                Irrigation Specialist (FAO Investment Center)
Nirmala Saraswat                  Environmental Specialist
Jenny Corso                       Project Assistant
Valencia Copeland                 Project Assistant
Roy Southworth                    Program Team Leader
Stan Peabody                      Social Scientist
- 67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, including:
* Project costs;
* Procurement arrangements;
* Procurement plan;
* Disbursement arrangements;
* Implementation Schedule; and
* Terms of References.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Various Aide Memoires, Back-to Office Reports and Intemal Memos;
o Financial Management Assessment (by Financial Management Specialist; March 31, 2000);
and
* Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementation Agency to Conduct Procurement (January
2000).
C. Other
- Identification Study (3 volumes; by CES Consulting Firm; February 1998);
o Feasibility Study for Samur-Apsheron Canal System and Main Mill-Mugan Collector (3
volumes; by CES Consulting Finn; December 1999);
o   Project Preparation Report (by CES Consulting Firm; December 1999);
- Project Implementation Plan (draft by CES Consultants; December 1999);
- Environmental Impact Assessment (by CES Consultants; January 2000);
-   Environmental Monitoring Report (by CES Consultants; January 2000);
* Social Assessment Report (by Azpetsprominvest; December 1999).
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P035813        1999 Azerbaijan                AGRI. DEV. & CREDIT                                  0.00     30.00        0.00     29.85       0.74       0.00
P008288        1995 Azerbaijan                BAKU WATER SUPPLY                                    0.00     61.00        0.00      22.59      29.54      0.00
P058969        1999 Azerbaijan                 CULT.HERITAGE PRSRV- AZ                             0.00      7.50        0.00       7.27       0.24      0.00
P057959        1999 Azerbaijan                 EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                            0.00      5.00        0.00      4.72       0.94       0.00
P040544        1997 Azerbaijan                 FARM PRIVATIZATION                                  0.00      14.70       0.00       5.77       3.44      0.00
P008287        1997 Azerbaijan                GAS REHAB                                            0.00     20.20        0.00      12.30       7.80      4.58
P008283        1996 Azerbaijan                INSTITUTION BUILDING                                 0.00     18.00        0.00       6.03       7.48      0.00
P008282        1995 Azerbaijan                PETROLEUM TA                                        0.00      20.80        0.00      10.36      11.75      2.96
P035770        1999 Azerbaijan                PiLOT RECONSTRUCTION                                 0.00     20.00        0.00      13.53       5.96      0.00
P055155        1998 Azerbaqjan                URGENT ENV. INVEST.                                  0.00     20.00        0.00      19.22       4.80      0.00
Total:        0.00      217.20        0.00      131.64     72.69       7.54
- 69 -



AZERBAIJAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               Amoco Caspian                 32.83    0.00    0.00    13.95   32.83    0.00      0.00   13.95
1998               Azerb. JV Bank                 0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98            Baku Coca Cola                 6.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.42    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Early Oil Fin                 15.44    0.00    0.00    6.56   15.44    0.00       0.00    6.56
1999               Lukoil                        19.30    0.00    0.00      8.20   19.30    0.00     0.00    8.20
1998               SEF Azdemiryol                 0.06    0.00    0.00   .0.00    0.06    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Azerigaz                   0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Rabitabank                 0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00       0.00    0.00
1999               Turkish Petrol                13.03    0.00    0.00      5.54   13.03    0.00     0.00    5.54
1999               Unocal Chirag                 19.40    0.00    0.00      8.24   19.40    0.00     0.00    8.24
Total Portfolio:       107.28    1.00    0.00   42.49   107.23    0.00     0.00   42.49
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999              Park Hyatt Baku                17500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     17500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AZERBAIJAN: Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low-
Azerbalian      Asia   Income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millionsJ                           7.9       473      3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$1                       490      2,190       520
GNP (Atles mothod, US$ billions)                          3.9     1,039      1,844
Avera1e annual prowth, 1992-98                                                                            T
Population f%)                                            1.2       0.1        1.7
Labor force (%M                                           1.S        0.6       1.9      GNP      |     ____               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avatlabte, 1992-98)                                   cpita                         enprimaren
PovertY (% of population below national poverty line)     68
Urban Population (% of totalpopulafi0n)                   57         68        31
Life exoectanCv at birth (year$)                          71         69         63
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                  20         23        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under S)                10          ..                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofPopulation)                      ..         ..        74
Illiteracy (% of poyoulaftion age 15i) -                              4        32
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-age Poopulation)   106        100       108                   Azerbaijan
Mate                                                   108        101       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 105         99       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       S997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                        9.8       3.4        3 9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                     ..       ..      37.0       40.0                      Trade
Exports of poods and serviceslGOP                 .        ..      29.9       24.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                        ..       ..      12.3        5,6
Gross national savinsa/GDP                                         13.2        6.8
Current account balancelGDP                                        -26.6     -34.8
Interest pavments/GDP                             ..      0.0       0.3        0.2      DomescInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                    ..       ..       14.6      15.1      Savings
Totat debt servicelexports                       ..        ..        6.6       8.7
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..       ..      10.2
Present value of debtexports                     -. ,,             31.9
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growthl
GDP                                     ..   -f1.5        5.S      10.0        3.9              'U--Azerbajan
GNP Per capita                         ..   -12.5         2.9        8.7       2.7             ............ .- Low-income group
Exoorts of 0oods and services           ..        .      53.6      22.1        6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (b)
(`% of GDP)                                                                            1500
ACtriculture                                     ..        ..      22.1       20.9
Industrv                                                           42.4       46.3    ICno
Manufacturing                                                      9.6       7.2      5oo
Services                                                           35.6       32.7       n,
Private consumption                                                75.6       83.4    .500            94            96   97   98
General government consumption                                      12.1      11.0                    GDI           GDP
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..      54.5       58.9
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual gnowth)
Apriculture                                       -                 -6.7       3.9     6
Industry                                                           16.8       19.9    40
Manufacturing                                                    -64.8     -17.7
Services                                                             8.9       0.9     20
Private consumption                                                -11.3      12 7      0
General government consumption                                     26.7       -7.4             93   94   ss ='4)   97   00
Gross domestic investment                                          34.8       16.1     20
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..      15.7       20.6               --Exports        Slsmports
Gross national Droduct                            ..   -11.5        5.9        9.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-sroup averane. If data are missing, the diamond Will
be incomDlete.
- 71 -



Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                          so 
(%S change)                                                                              , 00
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..        0.5        ..    1000
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..       ..        6.2       -5.7      so       v
Government finance                                                                         o
(% of GDP, includes current,grants)                                                               93    94    95    96   97   98
Current revenue                                    ..      ..       19.7       17.3     -500
Current budget balance                            ..        ..        0.2      -2.3                -GDP deflator        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..       ..       -1.7       -4.2
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..        ..       808       678      2.000
Crude oil from new fields                       ..        ..         16       133
Petroleum products                              ..        ..       464       285      1,500
Manufactures                                    ..        ..        78         57
Total imports (cif)                               ..       ..      1,444      1,791   .1 aa
Food                                             .        ..       181       175       So                  A 
Fuel and energy                                  .        .         79        63   so                        awn
Capital goods                                    .        ..       475       791                   I
92   93   94   9S   96   97   9B
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..        103        66
Import price index (1995=100)                                         99        95                C Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..      ..        104        69
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987        1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (J.)
Exports of goods and services                                      1,150      1,010     10
Imports of goods and services                                      2,101     2,425
Resource balance                                                     -9       -13415         92
Net income                                                            -         1       1
Net current transfers                             ..       ..         45        64
Current account balance                           ..        ..      -916    -1,364
Financing items (net)                                              1,079     1,291
Changes in net reserves                                             -163        74      40 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..        467       449
Conversion rate (DEC, locasllUS$)                         0.2    4,451.3   4,058.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..        ..       504       593
IBRD                                            ..       ..          0         0                  E:11  F:25
IDA                                             ..       ..        116       178     |                   :
Total debt service                                                    77        91     |9178
IBRD                                                                   
IDA                                                                            1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  .        ..        30
Official creditors                              ..       ..         25         1
Private creditors                               .. ..                8        17
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..      1,051       948
Portfolio equiy                                                      I         0                 C: 303
World Bank program                                                                      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Commitments                                     ..       ..          0        40      8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                   ..       ..         55        63      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Principal repayments                            ..       .-          0         0
Net flows                                       ..       ..         55        63
Interest payments                               ..       ..          0         1
Net transfers                                   ..       ..         55        62
Development Economics                                                                                                       9/22/99
-72 -



MAP SECTION






'  45'   To Tbilisi  X6>   (.              V      47O S                           4EJTh Koyakent \.        -  : : 4r   .                             5(p              '                   IBRD 30708
'-  G''E O  R G  I A                     ' ?r,, ,X,)t  ! %                     RUSSIAN                     %>S:::  :, '' :-'," ' ':                               AZERBAUAN
? '     SDlkn;  >r    'F E D E RAT I10 N  - /}iX        REHBLI TATION AND COMPLETION OF IRRIGATION
AND DRAINAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
To rbhlisi                                                                                                                                                  oz.- MOTORWAYS
SQ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a
A                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAL REHABILITATION  5--RAILROADS
PROPOSED COLLECTOR DRAJN     0   SELCTED CITES
C   R"ION CAPITALS
R y ' \ t 'Twt t %N1 l , -- . g _ U K~~c                                                                                             RAIN   UN ER  X    AZKSTAU TI N
eh   m    iTe   md      SI      A M IC              U  B  L             F  IR  -.s                                             ,            :                                                     CAIA    OPs  AUTONC#AU $-
* Ivgw.o rLECTED CANAL AND R/PT      Y,
N                                                                   IZOST       CaLEaOPD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  5   NATIONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPITAL  1
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                            /                                                                        RON BOUNDARIES
41 Vnv /n e  -r                                                                                                                                                                                       - INRNATONAL BOUNDARIES
To Dilizhan                                                            4                                                                               - 
I~~~~~~~~~~
I                r~~~~~~.    Godoe/ nonIor 
3-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
To Yerevon~~~~~o 
0  10  20  30  40  50 Rikas*ss ~ 40~ 
ARM EN~~~SIoA bzKelba                               bbIy           barlCA, 1                                                                                                            20    20     4      0ie
40~~~~-,                                                                                    AghCIVN  aC'  eZKATA
Rs,o,v.a   ~~~~~~~v  B  -~~~~~  '~~~. Zangildrs                                                                                        I--~~~~po-i
To Yerevan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSIN                                                                             C
FEERATO
WoMoosnk The MonoMo,os,3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ qqly9 
a/o,sss,oo.nor/ososd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ Kh
noxoAs  ,,nososshcos                                                                                                                                                               t~~~~~~~t.~~y  ~ Rokus
aol
0540335  46'                                                              40.                                                                                         ISlAMIC REF OF IRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
UA6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES2B



