                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 34778-AZ




                                      PROJECTPAPER

                                             ONA

                   PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(CREDIT)

                                    INTHEAMOUNT OF
                   SDR 3.5 MILLION(US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                               REPUBLICOF AZERBAIJAN

                                            FORA

      REHABILITATIONAND COMPLETIONOF IRRIGATIONAND DRAINAGE
                              INFRASTRUCTUREPROJECT

                                       February 1,2006




Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthCaucasus CountryUnit
EuropeandCentral Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective January 2006)


                       Currency Unit = Manat (AZN)
                             1Manat = US$ 1.09
                               US$ 1 = Manat0.92

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     - December31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ERR      Economic Rate o f Return
ha       Hectare ,
IDA      International DevelopmentAssociation
M M M C  MainMill-Mugan Collector
M M K C  MainMill-Karabakh Collector
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
RIDIP    Rehabilitationand Completion o f Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
         Project
SAC      Samur-Apsheron Canal
SAL4     State Amelioration and IrrigationAgency
SDR      Special DrawingRights
WUA      Water Users Association




                         Vice President       Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                        Sector Manager        Juergen Voegele
                            Task Leader       Joop Stoutjesdijk

                                  REPUBLIC OFAZERBAIJAN
    Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project
                                           Additional Financing


                                                   CONTENTS


                                                                                                                                         Page

I.   INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................                 1

II
 .   BACKGROUND AND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONALFINANCING                                                                            ................1
III
  .  PROPOSED CHANGES                  ..................................................................................................      4

IV.  CONSISTENCY WITHCAS                       ..........................................................................................      6

V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSISOF COST OVERRUN OR FINANCING GAP                                                                          ................6

VI.  EXPECTED OUTCOMES                     ..............................................................................................      7

VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS                ..................................................................................................      7

VIII FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONS FOR THEADDITIONAL
    .
     FINANCING      .....................................................................................................................      7

Map  Azerbaijan 30708     ..............................................................................................................       8

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                               REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
     Rehabilitationand Completionof IrrigationandDrainageInfrastructureProject
                                    AdditionalFinancing

                                     PROJECT PAPER




               of Irrigation and Drainage
               Infrastructure Project




Responsible agency: State Amelioration and Irrigation Agency (SAIA)




Bank policies?


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: Not Applicable.
Does the scaled-up or restru
        4                          For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [XI Credit   [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total IDA financing (US$m.): 5.0
       Proposed terms: 35 years to maturity with a 10-year grace period.
                                   Financing Plan (US$m.)
                   Source                           Local     I   Foreim   I  Total
Borrower
IDA


I. INTRODUCTION

        This Project Paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectorsto provide an additional
credit inthe amount of SDR 3.5 million (US $5 million equivalent) for the Azerbaijan
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage InfrastructureProject (RIDIP, Project
ID- P008284, Credit 3390-AZ).

        The proposed additional credit would help finance a cost overrun due to higher costs for
the rehabilitation and completion o f the irrigation and drainage infrastructure works under the
original project. The cost overrun mainly occurred due to: (i) increase duringthe last few
                                                                 an
years inthe price o f construction materials, inparticular steel and cement, and fuel; and (ii)
                                                                                              a
greater than anticipatedvolume o f rehabilitationwork for one component o f the project. The
Additional Financing would be required to fund all the originally planned activities infull,
specifically the rehabilitation and enlargement o f the Samur-Apsheron Canal (SAC) main supply
system from km27 to 50. It would thus mainly beused to carry out the last civil works contract,
butthere would also be small allocations for the financing o fconsultants. The original project
development objectives and expected outcomes would remain unchanged.

11.     BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING

Project Data

        RIDPwas approvedby IDA'SBoardofExecutiveDirectors on June 22,2000. The
credit o f SDR 31.7 million (the equivalent o fU S $42 million at the time ofNegotiations) became
effective on January 11,2001. The original closing date o fthe credit was M a y 31,2006, but it
was recently extended to June 30,2007. The request for this extension o fthe closing date was
made by government in a letter dated October 31, 2005. The same letter also requested the
Additional Financing that i s the subject o fthis Project Paper.

        Theproject's original development objectives (PADReportNo. 20429-AZYdatedMay
26,2000) are to: (i) prevent a decline inthe supply of water to Baku City and the Apsheron
Peninsula; (ii) eliminate further deterioration of the supply of irrigationwater to approximately
86,000 hectares (ha) along the Samur-Apsheron Canal; and (iii)      improve drainage and reduce
water logging and salinity directly on approximately 36,500 ha along a section o f the MainMill-
MuganCollector (MMMC).

        The main component of the original project relates to the rehabilitation and
modernization of irrigation infrastructure inthe SAC System and completion o f certain drainage
infrastructure inthe M M M C area. The project also supports institutional strengthening (already
completed) o f the State Amelioration and IrrigationAgency (SAIA), the agency responsible for
irrigation and drainage management inthe country, and the staff and operating costs o f a project
implementation unit. To date, there have been no changes to the original project objectives and
scope. The total disbursements throughJanuary 15,2006 are SDR 22.3 million (70 percent o f
the available credit funds).

Samur-Apsheron Canal System -Project Design and Current Status

       The SAC System is locatedinthe north-eastem part o fthe country, andcomprises a
headworks across the Samur River, an 182 kmlong main supply canal, a reservoir near Baku,
several pumpingstations, three non-operatingsedimentbasins, and a number o f secondary (inter-
farm) canals that supply water to irrigation areas. The SAC System was first constructed in
1939, and was reconstructedinits current form inthe 1950s. Ithas been operational almost
continuously during the past 50 years and despite certain maintenance duringthe past decades
the Systemhas gradually deteriorated. At the end o f the 1990s, its vulnerabilityto failure
threatened the continuity o fboththe supply o f irrigation water to about 86,000 ha o f farmland
and the supply o f drinking and industrial water to Bakuand the Apsheron Peninsula (the SAC
maincanal supplies approximately40 percent ofthe domestic andindustrialwater uses ofthe 2.5
millionpeople livinginBakuand on the Peninsula). Rehabilitation and modernizationo f the
SAC System were identified by government as a main priority. RIDIP was designedto assist
government inthis, with a focus on the rehabilitation o fthe canal system from the headworks to
50 km, as this section would be compatible with any future development o f the SAC System
beyond km 50. As per original project design, RIDIP covered the following activities:

(a)    Rehabilitation of the Samur headworks,where past flood damage and lack o fregular
       maintenance hadjeopardized the integrity o f the structure, was completed at the end o f
       2002. Rehabilitation o fthe structure has allowed the abstraction o fwater inrequired
       quantities and at the right time, as a result o f which the current supplies o f water to Baku
       could be maintained. The structure withstood the floods duringthe past three years
       without any major problems. The floods in2003 were especially severe and it has been
        acknowledged by the operators o f the headworks that the rehabilitation works made a
       major contribution to the safety and stability o f the structure;

(b)    Rehabilitation and modernization of secondary canals leading from the first 50 kmo fthe
        SAC main supply canal, serving directly about 60,000 ha. Ofthese, the works on 24
        secondary canals with a lengtho f 97 kmand serving about 18,100 ha were completed in
       2004. These completedsecondary canals have allowed for adequate irrigation water to
       reach the boundaries o f Water Users Associations (WUA). A survey conducted in2004
       within the project area revealedthat the number o f farmers who receive increased
       volumes o fwater is growing and that rehabilitation of the canals i s slowly increasing the
       confidence o f farmers to change croppingpatterns to more economic crops. The
       percentage of farmers receiving more than 75 percent o f requiredwater (measured in
       numbero firrigations) increased from 1percent in2002 to 35 percent in2004. It is noted
       that this percentage will increase infuture, as at the time o f the survey not all works on
       the 24 canals hadbeencompletedandthe SAC main supplycanalwas still ina
       deteriorated condition. Rehabilitation andmodernization o f an additional 19 secondary
       canals, with a length o f 88 km and serving about 40,000 ha, and associated structures
       (there i s a major focus on providing modemstructures that will allow proper
       measurement andmanagement o fwater) is progressingwell. The contract started in
       January 2005, and i s on schedule to be completed as plannedinMay 2006;




                                                  2

(c)      Construction of a new sediment basin near the SAC headworks has been ongoing since
        January 2005. The Samur River i s silt-laden and sedimentation of the SAC System i s a
         serious andexpensive problem. Modelingwork carried out under the project has
         concluded that an estimated 30 percent o f the sediment enteringthe SAC System can be
         excluded by the sediment basin. Construction o f the sedimentbasini s progressing well,
        with a scheduled completion date ofMay 2006. Cleaning o ftwo small sedimentbasins
         along the SAC mainsupply system has been excluded from the project as cleaning would
        have been expensive and would have provided only a few years o fbenefits. Instead,
        more attention has beengivento the optimum design ofthe sedimentbasinnear the
        headworks inorder to maximize the sediment exclusionthere; and

(d)     Rehabilitation of the SAC main supply canal i s ongoing. As a result o f almost continuous
         operation duringthe past 50 years and high sediment loads, the concrete lining and
         structures have seriously deteriorated, and without attention the canal would have ever
         increasing losses and would gradually loose its ability to convey water for drinking,
         industry, and irrigation. RIDIPwas designed to rehabilitate the concrete lining ofthe
         first 50 kmo f the main supply canal, as well as to modernize associated structures,
         including those that would allow adequate water measurement. A contract for the works
         along the first 27 kmwas awarded inSeptember 2005. Implementation i s planned over
         16 months to the spring o f 2007. Designs o f the works on the SAC main supply canal
         from km27 to 50 have been completed andtendering for these works i s ongoing. Ifthere
         are no delays with procurement, a contract could be awarded inFebruary 2006, to be
         completed by mid-2007. Additional Financing would beneeded to implementthis
         contract. The works would include not only rehabilitation o f the existingcanal and
         structures, but also enlargement, inreadiness for future abstraction o f internal streams
         that would be able to guarantee the expected future water supplies. The SAC feasibility
         studyprepared under RIDIP concluded that it makes technical and financial sense to
        rehabilitate and enlarge the canal inone operation, inpreference to delaying enlargement
        to a later date.

Main Mill Mugan Collector -Project Design and Current Status

         Drainage i s essential for many irrigation systems inAzerbaijan, especially so inthe flat
low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyanplains inthe center o f the country where soil salinity
has developed for lack of natural drainage. The overall development plan for the construction o f
collector systems to provide adequate drainage inthese areas was prepared inthe early 1960s.
The Kura left bank collector system was completed inthe 1980s, but developments on the right
bank remaineduncompletedbefore RIDIP was prepared, with only the MainMill-Karabakh
Collector (MMKC) andabout 110km o fthe M M M C completed. This left a 28 kmmissinglink
to complete the M M M C drainage systemand link it to MMKC, which at the moment discharges
into the Kura left bank collector system. This results infrequent overloads, which i s why the left
bank drainage system i s not fully effective. Saline M M K C drainage water i s sometimes released
inthe KuraRiverduringpeak drainage periods. RIDIP therefore supports completion o fthe last,
critical link inthe M M M C . The activities are as follows:




                                                   3

        Diversion of the Araz River over a new siphonthat links the completed maincollector
        drain on the right bank of the river with the collector that i s being constructed under
        RIDIP. Theworks also includedthe construction ofaroadbridgeo f315 mlong over the
        river diversion. These works were completed at the end o f2002 and are finctioning
        properly;

        Construction of thefirst section of the uncompletedMMMC System, including 8.5 kmo f
        the maincollector drain, 8.7 kmof inter-farm collector drains, 6.7 kmo f irrigation canals
        and structures, a railway bridge, two roadbridges, and two aqueducts. These works were
        completed inOctober 2004 and are functioning properly; and

        Construction of the remaining section of the MMMC System, including 19.5 kmo f main
        collector drain, three road bridges and two aqueducts, as well as rehabilitation or
        construction o f 70 kmo f inter-farm collector drains. Works commenced inJanuary 2005
        and are on schedule to be completed as plannedby the end o fMay 2006.

        The impact of the completed works on the M M M C drainage system is not yet fully
visible, as all the works will have to be completed before the water table can be filly controlled.
As the works completed so far are o f good quality and areperfonningwell, there are already
good indications that the drainage conditions will improve and that water logging and salinity
will reduce inthe project area.

Current Implementation Perform ance

        The ImplementationProgress andAchievement o fthe Development Objectives o fRIDIP
are bothrated satisfactory. Project implementationhas been slower than originally envisaged,
mainly as a result of complicated survey and design works. The quality o f construction works i s
generally satisfactory and the works are expected to be durable. Assuming all originally planned
works can be completed there i s a good likelihood that the project development objectives and
expected benefits will be achieved. However, ifthe SAC main supply system were not fully
rehabilitatedthrough km 50, as originally planned, but were instead stopped at km27 due to lack
o f financial resources, there would be continued deterioration on that final section. Inthat event,
the investmentsalready made inthe SAC Systemwould not result inthe originally expected
benefits, as adequate and timely delivery o fwater for drinking andirrigation would not be
guaranteed. Therefore the project development objectives would not be fully achieved,

        There are currently no fiduciary or safeguard issues affecting the project. Independent
audit reports have been submittedon time and have always been unqualified. The Borrower i s in
fullcompliance with credit covenants.

111.    PROPOSED CHANGES

        The financial status o fthe project civil works is as follows:




                                                  4

                                                                                          US.%mn                Var
                                                                                   PAD "           Cost    g'   %        Status


        SAC System
               headworks                                                             2.93             2.21        -25% complete
              sediment basin         a'                                              4.03             7.35         82% ongoing
              other sediment works b'                                                2.09                              excluded
               main canal (0-50km)          ''                                       4.03             9.25       129% future
               main canal enlargement                                                2.92             2.26        -23% future
               interfarm canals and structures            dl                          5.05            6.44         27% ongoing
                                                                         SAC       21.05            27.51          30%
        MMMC Drain
               completion of siphon & Araz river diversion                            6.83            5.78        -15% complete
              all drains, service road and structures e'                            10.12           12.81          z7y0 ongoing
                                                                     MMMC          16.95            18.59          10%

                                                                     Total:        38.00            46.10          21%
        Notes:
           a1 included with second batch of interfarm canals (SAC-BP);
           bl excluded from Project, as economicaily not viable, and because of Improved sediment abstraction at headworks;
           cl split in two Parts: 0-27km (contract award in Oct 05) and 27-50km (start expected early 06);
           dl two batches: SAC41 complete; SAC-BP ongoing;
           el ail works combined in two batches: MMMC-B1 complete; MMMC-BZ ongoing;
            fl excluding design and supervision costs:
           Q l actual cost of completed contracts, current cost of ongoing contracts (including revisions), and
               design or tender costs for future works;


        It can be concluded that incomparison with estimates at appraisal (February2000),
overall civil works costs have risen by about 21 percent. There are two reasons for this: an
increase inunit costs and an increase inthe volume o fwork needed to rehabilitate the SAC main
supplycanal. Duringproject preparation, consultants spent considerable time costingthe project
works, This included a review o f ongoing civil works projects to determine market-based unit
costs for different works and materials. Price andphysical contingencies were included inthe
cost estimates as well. However, constructionmaterial costs (especially cement and steel) and
fuel have increased much more than the original estimates duringthe past three years, which has
affected the cost o f the three ongoing contracts and the expected cost o f the future contract for
the rehabilitationworks from km 27 to 50.

        The quantities o fworks to properly rehabilitatethe SAC main supply canal are also
higherthan estimated at appraisal stage. At that time the canal could not be fully dewatered, and
quantities were estimated based mainly on a visual inspection o f the canal lining. Duringthe
detailed survey and design phase under the project, the canal was dewatered and detailed
investigations showed that the real rehabilitationneeds are higher than estimated during
preparation. It i s not uncommon that the rehabilitation needs at detailed design stage differ from
those projectedat the feasibility stage. It i s also the case that rehabilitation works typically
increase over time.

        The fluctuation inthe SDR-US$exchange rate over the period since the project was
appraised and negotiatedhas increased the available U S dollar amount from the credit by about
US$3 million. The currently remainingfunds ofabout U S $13.65 millionwouldjust allow all
ongoing contracts to be completed. However, there would be no financing for the rehabilitation


                                                                        5

andenlargement of the SAC main supplycanal fi-om km27 to 50, with a designestimate ofUS
$5.2 million. Present financial forecasts indicate that US $5 million inAdditional Financing
would berequiredto fund all the originally planned activities infull. About 94 percent o f the
additional financingwould be neededfor civil works, with the balance needed for consulting
services for construction supervision, independent audits and environmental monitoring during
the extended project period, as well as a final impact survey.

                                   Allocationof Credit Proceeds

        ExpenditureCategory               Amount inUS$million FinancingPercentage

 Works                                              4.70               90 percent
 Consulting Services and Training                   0.30               100percent
 Total                                              5.00

        The implementation arrangements o f the Additional Financingwould bethe same as for
the original credit. A fully staffed PIU, integrated into the structure o f the State Amelioration
andIrrigationAgency, would have overall responsibility for day-to-day implementation,
including financial management. Overall financial management systems at the PIU, including
accounting and financial reporting (1C accounting system), internal controls, disbursements and
auditing arrangements are acceptable to the Bank. The systems are capable o f correctly and
completely recording all transactions and balances relating to the project, facilitate preparationo f
regular, timely and reliable project financial statements, safeguardproject's assets andare
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

        The implementingagency continues to satisfactory implementthe originally agreed
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). As there are no additional or expanded activities
under this Additional Financing, the EMP as prepared remains inplace.

IV.     CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

        The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; Report No. 25790-AZYdated April 29,2003)
was discussed by the Board on M a y 27,2003. A new Country Partnership Strategy i s expected
to be submittedto the Board for consideration duringthe later part o fFY06. Since 2000, IDA'S
assistance strategies have included focus on broad-based economic growth, employment
creation, andpoverty alleviation. Developmento f agriculture has been singledout, as it i s the
most important non-oil sector, providing ample opportunities for expanding outputs and income
o fthe rural population. Reversingthe decline inphysical infrastructure has also been a focus o f
IDA'Sassistance strategies. This includes irrigation and drainage developments, as irrigation
and drainage are key inputsfor profitable agricultural production. RIDIPremains therefore
consistent with the objectives o f the recent Country Assistance Strategies.

V.      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN OR FINANCINGGAP

        The SAC'Smainlong-term economic benefits are expected to accrue from the following
factors: (i)
           increase inyields; (ii) conversion to highvalue crops; (iii)   prevention of the collapse


                                                  6

o f irrigation facilities and subsequentdecline inirrigable areas; and (iv) securing o f the current
level o f drinking water for Baku and the Apsheron Peninsula. At appraisal, scenarios for the
economic analysis were preparedconservatively, assuming that the anticipated increase inyields
and conversionto higher value crops would take place infull 11years after completion o fthe
rehabilitationworks. The economic rate o f return (ERR) estimated for the SAC Systemwas
around 23 percent, showing that the investmentswould have sufficient economic viability.

         As part o fthe sensitivity analysis, the ERRwas calculated for several cases, including a
20 percent increase inthe cost ofrehabilitation and a delay by five years inachieving the full
benefits of irrigation. For both scenarios the ERRwould be around 20 percent and it can be
concluded that the sub-project i s robust against these risks andthat evenwith the Additional
Financingthe project would remain economicallyjustified.

VI.      EXPECTED OUTCOMES

         The proposedchanges would not affect the original project outcomes.

VII.     BENEFITS AND RISKS

         There are no major risks relatedto the provision o fthe Additional Financing that could
jeopardize the expected achievements o f the project. The completed and ongoing contracts have
shown that there are capable contractors who are interested to participate inthe project. There i s
no reason to doubt that a qualified contractor can be selected to implement the works to be
carried out with the Additional Financing. There i s also sufficient engineering design and
construction supervision capacity employed under the project to be confident that there would be
the needed quality control.

VIII. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
         FINANCING

         SDR 3.5 million(US $5 million equivalent) wouldbeprovided as a credit with a 35 year
maturity, including 10 years grace, a service charge o f 0.75 percent, andcommitment fee not to
exceed 0.5 percent.

         There are no effectiveness conditions.




                                                   7


