Page  1
March
18,
1998
Mr. Abid Sharifov
Deputy Prime Minister
Baku
Azerbaijan Republic
Re:
Japanese Grant for Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage 
Project Grant No. TF025537
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a
grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred six thousand and six hundred Dollars
($306,600) (the Grant) to Azerbaijan Republic (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
I.
Husain
Country Director
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By
/s/
A.
Sharifov
Deputy Prime Minister
Date: June 1, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient to prepare the proposed 
Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Project.
The activities
(the Activities) 
for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Environmental assessment and monitoring:
(i)
Collect and analyze necessary baseline data, conduct relevant 
studies on micro-climate, human environment and health, botany, 
zoology  and vegetation, and surface and groundwater quality;
(ii)
Carry out a full environmental impact assessment, in accordance 
with Bank policy and guidelines, and prepare technical proposals
for periodic monitoring of key environmental indicators; and
(iii)
Develop an environmental monitoring system, recommend 
Page  2
organizational arrangements and resources needed to sustain such a
system.
(b)
Social impact studies and development of participatory approaches:
(i)
Conduct social impact studies of the proposed investment program 
in irrigation and drainage infrastructure; identify groups who
will be affected by the project and conduct social impact surveys;
(ii)
Develop participatory approaches for water resource management; 
and
(iii)
Hold stakeholder workshops to inform the people about the project, 
its objectives and components and prepare project activities which
reflect the people
’s concerns, indicating the organizational
arrangements, functions and responsibilities of participating
agencies and/or groups and resource requirements in terms of 
labor, equipment, materials and capital and an action plan for the
implementation.
(c)
Study Tour:
Organize a study tour to expose the key project team leaders
to different and modern methods of management, project implementation, and specialized
technical aspects to speed up the project preparation process.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient through the State Irrigation Committee (SIC) shall: (a) carry out 
the Activities with due diligence and efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA
shall reasonably request;
(d)
from time to time exchange views with IDA's
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and
(e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Azerbaijan
Republic for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on
the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or
repair such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
244,100
100%
services
Page  3
(2)
Goods
30,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%
of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and
80%
of
local expenditures
for other tems
procured locally
(3)
Study Tour
32,500
100%
TOTAL
306,600
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of Azerbaijan for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of Azerbaijan
Republic, and the term
"local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA ;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in 
the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied
from such territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA
’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) after March 31, 1999, or such later date as IDA 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the
corresponding application is received by IDA within four
(4) months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant
Account shall be canceled; and
(b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2
above will be insufficient
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have
authorized in writing; and
(b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first
application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.
IDA
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; (c) goods; and (d) a study tour, all under such terms 
and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in U.S.
Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment
Page  4
II to this Annex
.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii)
furnish to IDA as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
(6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA
’s
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of Azerbaijan Republic, to make
withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six
(6)
months after the
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by IDA in January 1997 and revised in 
September
1997
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this 
Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  5
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants
’
Qualifications
Services for the collection and analysis of baseline data; the preparation of
environmental assessment; the development of an environmental monitoring system;
social impact studies; the development of participatory approaches; and the conducting
of stakeholder workshops estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the collection and analysis of baseline data; the preparation of
environmental assessment; the development of an environmental monitoring system;
social impact studies; the development of participatory approaches; and the conducting
of stakeholder workshops shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.
The contract
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
1
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by IDA in 
January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996
(the Guidelines); and (b) under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines. The review procedures set 
forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts,
provided that the word
"bids", in such paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $70,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph
3
(a)
of this Attachment.
Page  6
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for   the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the basis of each
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible
item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph
5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or,
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless IDA shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
Page  7
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such
outstanding amount.
