Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3390 AZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation 
and Drainage Infrastructure Project)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 24, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3390 AZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2000, between AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement;
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"EMP" means the environmental management plan dated March 2000, agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association and included in the environmental impact 
assessment report;
(d)
"Manat" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(e)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(f)
"PIU" means the project implementation unit, established within SAIC and 
referred to in Section 5.01(c) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 
5.01(d) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
"SAIC" means the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee of the 
Borrower or any successor thereto acceptable to the Association;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(k)
"State Committee on Ecology" means the State Committee on Ecology of the 
Borrower;
(l)
"Steering Commission" means the steering commission of the Borrower 
referred to in Section 5.01(b) and paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(m)
"Sub-project" means either a sub-project for the rehabilitation of 
Page  3
Samur-Apsheron Canal System or a sub-project for completion of the Main Mill-Mugan 
Collector, selected and carried out by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 and Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2010 and ending June 15, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2020, shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
Page  4
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SAIC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter at all times 
maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out 
of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during each 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Page  6
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been appointed;
(b)
the members of the Steering Commission acceptable to the Association,  
shall have been appointed; 
(c)
the PIU shall have been established and its staff shall have been 
appointed with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(d)
the Project Account shall have been opened by the Borrower in a local 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Association and an initial deposit of an amount in 
Manat equivalent to $130,000 shall have been made by the Borrower into such account. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku 370006
Azerbaijan Republic
Page  7
Telex: Fax:
142116 994-12-98-5381
BNKSL
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               
Telex: Fax:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or   (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Avaz Alekberov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rufiz Vakhid Chirag-Zade
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed
% of Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   25,300,000 90%
(2)
Goods
      150,000 100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Page  8
(3)
Consultants' services
    3,770,000 100%
and training
(4)
Incremental operating
      380,000 70%
costs
(5)
Refunding of Project
600,000
Amounts due 
Preparation Advance
Pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    1,500,000
TOTAL
   31,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies and travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Sub-project in respect of which 
disbursement is sought has been approved by the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for works not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent each; (c) contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for employment of individual consultants not 
exceeding $25,000 equivalent each; (e) training; and (f) incremental operating costs, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Page  9
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or, (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
Page  10
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) prevent the decline in supplying water 
Page  11
to Baku; (b) eliminate further deterioration of the supply of irrigation water to 
Samur-Apsheron Canal System; and (c) improve drainage and reduce water logging and 
salinity for Main Mill-Mugan Collector area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
1.
Rehabilitation of the Samur-Apsheron Canal System, including:
(a)
rehabilitation of the headworks, including the replacement of 
deteriorated gates and lifting gear;
(b)
repair of the concrete lining of the first 50 km of the main canal, 
including the associated structures;
(c)
rehabilitation of sedimentation works;
(d)
rehabilitation of the inter-farm canals;
(e)
canal enlargement; and
(f)
provision of technical assistance to support design and construction 
supervision services.
2.
Completion of the Main Mill-Mugan Collector System, including:
(a)
completion of the siphon underpass under the Araz River;
(b)
completion of the remaining 31 km of the main collector;
(c)
construction of necessary bridges, aqueducts and service road;
(d)
reconstruction and rehabilitation of inter-farm collectors; and
(e)
provision of technical assistance to support design and supervision 
services.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Samur-Apsheron Canal management  
through provision of technical assistance.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to develop an irrigation sector strategy. 
3.
Provision of training and study tours to the PIU and SAIC staff on project 
administration and modern designs for irrigation and drainage systems.
4.
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of a comprehensive 
feasibility study to review the technical, environmental, social and economic 
viability of the expansion in capacity of the Samur-Apsheron Canal System. 
Part C:
Project Management
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and incremental operating costs to the 
PIU to improve its project implementation capacity, including its construction 
supervision, engineering design, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and financial 
Page  12
management capacity.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:  
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $126,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $55,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $49,500 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
Page  13
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule; (ii) the first two contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provision of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the first 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 and Part 
C.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $440,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for improvement of financial management capacity may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  All terms of reference for 
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$25,000 shall also be subject to the Association’s prior review.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PIU and 
shall ensure that the PIU is staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms 
of reference, and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, in a 
manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a Steering 
Commission, composed by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Chairman of SAIC, Deputy 
Minister of the Ministry of Finance, the Chairman or a representative authorized by 
the Chairman of the State Committee on Ecology, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of 
Agriculture, Chairman of the Apsheron Water Supply Company, and the PIU director, as 
its secretary. The Steering Commission will be responsible for reviewing the progress 
of Project implementation and resolving any general issues related to inter-agency 
coordination within the framework of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) select the Sub-projects in accordance with the 
Page  15
procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and (b) carry out the Sub-projects in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Account until the completion of the 
Project and deposit counterpart funds into such account in such intervals to ensure 
satisfactory implementation of the Project. 
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and 
submit to the Association, for its review, a work program and budget for activities to 
be carried out during the following fiscal year; and (b) immediately thereafter, 
finalize said program taking into consideration the Association’s comments thereon.  
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, commencing on March 31, 2001, 
quarterly reports on the progress in the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
take all measures necessary, including the close cooperation with the 
State Committee on Ecology and other environmental institutions, for carrying out of 
the EMP, and include adequate information on carrying out of such measures in the 
reports referred to in above sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph. 
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than August 31 of each year, submit to the 
Association, before submitting to MOF, for its review, the draft annual operational 
and maintenance budget adequate for proper operation and maintenance of Samur-Apsheron 
Canal System and Main Mill-Mugan Collector System satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) finalize said draft operational and maintenance budget proposal taking into 
consideration the Association’s comments thereon. 
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria, and 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Sub-projects
Part A:
Procedures
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the PIU and prior to the selection of each 
Sub-project, submit the proposal for that Sub-project to the Association for its 
review and approval. 
2. 
In submitting a proposal for a Sub-project to the Association for its review and 
approval, the PIU shall prepare and furnish to the Association: (a) a design report 
Page  16
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) such other information as the Association 
shall reasonably request. The design report shall contain: (a) a description of design 
alternatives considered; (b) a description of the proposed Sub-project; (c) design 
criteria and technical details of the Sub-project; and (d) bill of quantities and cost 
estimates for the Sub-project.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
1. 
Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Association, including the criteria set forth below.
2. 
In selecting a Sub-project the Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Sub-project shall seek to rehabilitate an existing irrigation 
infrastructure, with no irrigation of new areas or expansion of the existing 
irrigation infrastructure; 
(b) 
depending on the assessment of the potential impact, if any, of the 
Sub-project on other riparian countries, the Sub-project shall be in conformity with 
policies and procedures acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the feasibility study under Part B.4 of the Project has been completed in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association prior to commencement of canal enlargement 
under Part A.1 (e) of the Project; and
(d)
no private land will be affected by a Sub-project unless procedures for 
compensation and replacement have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the 
Association. 
3. 
In addition to the criteria listed in paragraph 2 of Part B above, the Borrower, 
through the PIU, shall ensure for each Sub-project that:
(a) 
the Sub-project shall not drain or reclaim any significant area of 
natural wetland which has or is likely to have a significant impact on an important 
area of wildlife habitat or major fishery;
(b) 
the Sub-project shall address the risk of encountering unknown 
archaeological or historical sites by adopting and following appropriate procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, addressing such a risk; and
(c) 
the Sub-project shall be in conformity with all local and national 
environmental standards and requirements, and its design and implementation shall 
provide for adequate mitigation measures to ensure full compliance with local and 
national health, environmental and safety standards and requirements.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions
1. 
Each Sub-project shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers, and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, engineering and environmental standards, including local and national 
environmental requirements.
2. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall allow the representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, to inspect the sites, works, plants, 
goods and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents.
Page  17
