Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3390-1 AZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and 
Drainage Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 2 , 2006  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3390-1 AZ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 2, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
AZERBAIJAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the Original Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Original Project.  
To this end, the Recipient, through the SAIA, shall carry out the Original Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION  
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex: 
   
142116 BNKSL 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Ahmad Juma oglu Ahmadzade 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Saida Bagirli 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to: (i) prevent a decline in the supply of water to 
Baku City and the Apsheron Peninsula; and (ii) eliminate further deterioration of the 
supply of irrigation water to approximately 86,000 hectares (ha) along the Samur-
Apsheron Canal.   
The Project consists of the Original Project, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
Schedules 4 and 5 to the Original Financing Agreement are incorporated in this 
Agreement, with the following modifications in said Schedule, unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
(a) 
the term “Credit” shall be read as “Financing”; and 
(b) 
the term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2007. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Works.
 
All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procu
rement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Methods 
of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used f
or
consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Individual Consultants 
(b)  
Least-Cost Selection 
(c)  
Single Source Selection
 
Page  8
-
7
-
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (i) each 
contract for works procured under Part B; (ii) each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (iii) each 
contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more.  Terms of reference for all consulting assignments estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 for consulting firms and $25,000 for individual consultants shall be subject 
to the Association’s prior review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1)  Works 
         3,290,000 
90% 
(2)  Consultants’ services 
 
and training 
 
210,000 100% 
TOTAL  
 
3,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2016 to and including 
December 15, 2025 
 
1.25% 
commencing June 15, 2026 to and including 
December 15, 2040 
 
2.5% 
___________________________ 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Financing to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“Original Financing” means the amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty 
one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,700,000) made 
available by the Association to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Original Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined) (Credit No. 3390 AZ). 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Project between 
the Recipient and the Association, dated August 24, 2000 (Credit No 3390 AZ). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 12, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
9. 
“SAIA” means the State Amelioration and Irrigation Agency of the Recipient, or 
its successor thereto.
 
