DoCument Of
The World Bank
FO0  OMCIAL USK ONLY
cR
Reupw No. P-4204-RW
REPORT AND RECONMENDAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USSt9. 0 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUELIC
FOR A
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
November 26, 1985
This ooain    hu a   dbmtb.  d m  May be _d by rIsp0    only is th peufomaue of
ohk oehl dd. Its aulautg me a         dw  be dtdue withot W.di Bak mdhmwdloi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(End May 1985)
USS1.00  - Rwandese franc (RwF) 103.7
RwF 100 - US$0.964
(Project data are based on the exchange rate of US$1.00 - RwF 105)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF           African Development Fund
BACAR         Banque Contineatale Africaine au Rwanda
BNR           Banque Nationale du Rmanda
BPI           Bureau de Promotion Industrielle
BRD           Banque Rwandaise de Dsveloppement
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CER           Caisse d'Epargae du Rwanda
EDF           European Development Fund
EIB           European Investment Bank
FAD           African Development Fund
KfW           Kreditastalt fMr Viederaufbau
HINIFiNECO    Ministare des Finances et de l'Economie
HINDMART      MinistAre des Mines, de l'Industrie et de l'Artisanat
OCIR-Th6      Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-The
OCIR-Caff     Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-Caff
SSE           Small-scale Enterprises
SSI           Small-scale Industries
USAID         US Agency for Iaternational Development
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter tm)              =          3.3   feet
I hectare                =         2.47  acres
1 are (100 m2)                     0.02  acre
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62  mile
1 are (100 m2)                     0.01  hectare
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.39  square miles (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)          =         2.2  pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)              =         0.26  uS gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiary:           Rwandese Development Bank (Banque Rwandaise de
D6veloppenent - BRD).
Amount:                SDR 8.5 million (USS9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:       The borrower would onlend the credit proceeds to BRD
at the following terms: (a) IBRD interest rate in
effect at the time of distribution of credit docu-
ments to the Executive Directors, with a flexible
amortization schedule that would substantially con-
form with the aggregate of the amortization schedules
of subloans made by BRD and financed tinder this pro-
ject (subject to a maximum term of 15 years, includ-
ing a grace period not to exceed 5 years) on the
portion of the line of credit allocated for medium-
sized and larger projects CSDR 4.7 million); and (b)
7 percent p.a. with a fixed amortizatina schedule of
In years. including 5 years of grace on the remaining
SDR 3.8 million to be used for relending to small-
scale enterprises (SSEs)I/. The weighted average
cost of IDA funds to BRIi would he about 8 percent per
annum. The Government would hear the foreign ex-
change risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:   (i) Objectives:  The project would continue with
IDA's support of BRD as an effective financial
intermediary - and the main instrument in Rwanda
for developing the private sector - to provide
term finance for well-conceived development pro-
jects, including SSEs. The project would assist
the Government in improving the policy framework
for SSEs, through the establishment of a special
regime for them in the investment code and impro-
vement of the functioning of the Special Guarantee
Fund.  The project would also assist the Govern-
ment in its review of Rwanda's import tariffs sys-
tem for necessary changes.
I/  Small-scale enterprises (SSEs), as used in this report, are defined as
enterprises with net total assets, hefore the project, of less than RwF
30 million (US$285,000).
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



(ii)
(ii) Description: The project woud provide for a line
of credit of SDR 8.5 million equivalent to BRD, of
which about SDR 4.7 million equivalent would be
used for financing medium-sized and larger enter-
prises, and about SDR 3.8 millioa equivalent would
be for SSE projects.
Benefits and Risks:  (i) Benefits.  The project would provide investment
funds to assist in developing Rwanda's private
sector, including SSEs. It would help create
about 1,500 jobs at an estimated average cost of
US$10,000 per job. The Project would enable IDA
to continue to support BRD in its efforts to
improve its efficiency, financial strength and
profitability. IDA would also help the Government
in improving the policy framework for SSEs.
Finally, IDA would initiate a dialogue with the
Government on a reform of Rwanda's import tariffs
system.
(ii) Risks. The main risk in this project relates to
possible deterioration of BRD's financial position
due to an increase in its arrears. This risk,
however, should not be overrated: (a) because BIRD
has developed a sound program for assisting SSEs,
the first phase of which has yielded encouraging
results; and (b) because of the action BRD has
already initiated to deal with its two major pro-
blem projects and the measures proposed in the
context of this project to improve BRD's collec-
tion performance.
-     US$ millioa
Local   Foreiga   Total
Estimated Cost
BRD's operations (1985-88)                   9.6       18.9     28.5
Total Financing Required                   9.6       18.9     28.5
Financing Plan
BRD resources availahle for commitments      2.9        3.4      6.3
BRD - rolled over donor funds                6.7         -       6.7
Proposed fourth IDA credit                    -         9.0      9.0
ADF                                           -         5.0      5.0
EDF                                           -         0.4      0.4
Contribution by other donors/lenders          -         1.1      1.1
Total                                      9.6       18.9     28.5



(iii)
USs million
(IDA FY)  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Estimated Disbursements
Annual                    0.4   0.9   1.9   2.0   1.6   1.6   0.6
Cumulative                0.4   1.3   3.2   5.2   6.8   8.4   9.0
Staff Appraisal Report No:   5791-RW



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIPECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR THE FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDR 8.5
million (US$9.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms for a fourth
Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983. The findings of this
memorandum, updated as much as possible, are summarized below. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an annu-
al population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in
Africa), a population density (in terms of agricultural land) of about 390
per square km (slightly higher than that of India but about four times that
of Zaire and about eight times that of Tanzania), hilly terrain and high
average altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural resources (includ-
ing shortage of arable land), underdeveloped physical and institutional in-
frastructure, and a very low level of development as measured by a variety
of social as well as economic indicators. These indicators include a per
capita income of about USS270 (1983), among the lowest in the world; an
average life expectancy of 44 years; and an adult literacy rate of 40 per-
cent.
4.        The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of
raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills, and skilled
manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel, petro-
leum products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually every
modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high trans-
portation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to the
sea ports of Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.
5.        Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable effort
toward economic and social development. During the 1976-80 period, the
country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make important
advances not only in agriculture but in other fields such as education,
health, water supply, and small-scale industry. It succeeded in building



-2-
basic transport and communication infrastructure and set in place a state
administrative apparatus serious about development. These achievements
reflect the Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as
well as its prudent fiscal, balance of payments and debt management poli-
cies. At the same time, Rwanda has been able to attract substantial ex-
ternal aid from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions
that Government is indeed development-oriented and is pursuing generally
appropriate objectives. The Government's efforts during this period were
significantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of
the late 1970's.
6.        Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts
in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which continue to
shadow development prospects: population growth, increasingly at odds with
land availability, an undiversified economic structure, Government's li-
mited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector. Though fooderop
output has increased sufficiently to feed the growing population, it has
apparently done so at a cost to the land's long-term fertility. Agricul-
tural land use in Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow
or grazing area left. The population pressure has resulted in serious
deforestation, accompanying erosion, and has required the cultivation of
marginal lands with a fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse
trends has been a deterioration of nutritional standards induced bv the
shift to traditional high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The
limited success of Government's efforts has been largely due to the
country's structural constraints (among them the critical population pro-
blem), institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from shortage of skilled
personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At the same
time, fragmentation of institutional responsihilities, and poor interagency
coordination have limited the country's capacity to absorb external resour-
ces.
7.        The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these pro-
blems. Of particalar importance have been actions concerned with the ex-
treme'y rapid population growth, and the lack of education and training.
In 1981, the Government established the National Population Office (ONAPO)
to plan, coordinate, and monitor all population activities. ONAPO has
started to sensitize the population about the implications of excessive
demographic pressure on the country's limited resources; a few pilot family
planning programs have been set up; and a nationwide fertility survey, now
completed, is expected to provide valuable information on the potential
demand for family planning. Obviously, the impact of these measures will
be felt only in the long run. To address the problem of lack of education
and training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 which
- after subsequent adjustment - was responsive to the country's needs,
but whose implementation has been hampered by financial constraints and a
lack of teachers.
8.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance
can only be tentative, as the aational account estimates have serious
shortcomings.  Nevertheless, these estimates suggest that. compared to the
period of 1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annually,



- 3 -
economic growth in Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 - GDP grew on aver-
age by 3.3 percent p.a. - mainly on account of a downswing in tertiary
sector activities.   Balance of payments and budgetary constraints impinged
heavily upon trade and transport activities whose rapid growth in the past
had been facilitated by greatly enlarged availabilities of foreign exchange
and budgetary revenues. Budgetary austerity measures introduced since 1983
resulted in stagnation of Government's expenditures in real terms during
the past two years. Notwithstanding this domestic recession, the manufac-
turing sector expanded its productive capacity and improved its capacity
utilization due, in part, to the import restrictions which limited foreign
competition. Mining continued the decline that started in 1980 due to per-
sistent financial and management problems of the major mixed-ownership com-
pany (SOMIRWA) which is now being liquidated. In agriculture, the sluggish
performance of the food crop production has beea partially offset by the
rise in the production of export crops.
9.        Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the
volume of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings were
declining.  Since 1981, the total value of exports has been consistently
below their 1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world coffee prices
rather than a shortfall in export volume. The terms of trade deteriorated
by about 24 percent between 1979 and 1984. In an attempt to arrest the de-
terioration of the balance of payments, the Government adopted - beginning
in 1983 - what they expected would be temporary measures, including
licensing, prior deposit requirements and increased import tariffs. The
restrictions aimed mainly at curtailing imports of non-esseatial consump-
tion goods as well as those of locally produced commodities. The Rwandese
authorities also shifted the peg of the Rwandese franc (in September 1983)
from the US dollar to the SDR, entailing a 5.2 percent depreciation vis-a-
vis the US dollar. These measures, coupled with some improvement in the
terms of trade in 1984 (with respect to the 1981-1983 period) helped to
reduce the current account deficit to about 9 percent of GDP in 1984, as
compared to 12 and 11 percent, respectively, in 1982 and 1983.
10.       On the budgetary side, the authorities failed to realize that the
high level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary pheno-
menon not justifying a permanent increase in expenditures. This failure
reflected a major weakness in the assessment of resource availability and
prospects. As a result, the sharp decline in revenues from coffee export
taxes beginning in 1981, together with increases in current outlays (in
order to achieve the social objectives of the Plan), resulted in an overall
budgetary deficit equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP in both 1982 and
1983 (as compared to a surplus of 0.9 percent in 1980). Concern over the
worsening budgetary situation led Government to introduce corrective fiscal
measures. In 1984, the growth of current expenditures (in nominal terms)
was limited to 2.3 percent (compared to 36 and 10 percent in 1981 and 1982,
respectively). The growth of public sector employment was held under 0.5
percent - the education sector was exempted in order to achieve the re-
vised targets of the 1979 Education Reform. This represented a major break
from Government's past policy of practically  guaranteeing  employment to
every secondary school graduate. Large reductions were also decided in net
transfers to parastatals. Henceforth, state enterprises of a commercial or
industrial nature will not be granted budgetary subsidies and will have to



-4-
resort to commercial bank financing. On the revenue side, despite an up-
ward revision of import duties on luxury goods and a more progressive tax
structure on wages, the tax ratio to GDP remained relatively low at 9 per-
cent. The same austerity measures have been included in the 1985 budget.
11.       Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary
and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighbor-
ing countries, high international transport costs, and increased prices of
imports and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic foodstuffs.
Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, it peaked at 12.6
percent in 1982, reflecting mainly the wubstantial increases in electricity
and water tariffs and educational fees. In 1983 and 1984, inflation was
down to 6.6 and about 5.4 percent, respectively.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of foreign
aid ia receat years.  Per capita disbursements of net official development
assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than the average for
Africa. During the period 1981-84, grants comprised about 80 percent of
total external aid flows, and were provided mainly by Belgium, the Federal
Republic of Germany, and France. In view of its level of development,
Rwaada will need external assistance for a long time to come. Even main-
taining per capita income at the current low level -- a very modest objec-
tive indeed - will require a continuation of assistance at least at the
current level, given population growth and export constraiats. The donor
community should make efforts to increase its assistance, provided Rwanda
continues to pursue sound macro-economic, sectoral (particularly in agri-
culture), and population policies.
13.       Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
Small, amounting to US$220 million at end-1983, equivalent to about 15 per-
cent of GDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly con-
cessionary terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average during
the 1972-84 period. Due to the concessionary nature of these loans, the
debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt are relatively low: 7.0
percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1984. Hence, there
remains scope for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of the
country, its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its unfavor-
able terms-of-trade prospects, external funds should continue to he pro-
vided in the form of grants or loans at highly concessionary terms, and ia-
clude a high proportion of local cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
14.       The Bank Group assistance, started in 1970, was initially focused
on the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricul-
tural production. As of September 31, 1985, Rwanda has received twenty-
IDA credits totalling US$247.2 million: eight for agriculture (37 per-
cent); five for roads (28 percent); three for DFC's (7 percent); two for
education (7 percent); one for telecommunications (3 percent); two for
technical assistance (4 percent); one for water supply (5 percent) and two



-5-
for power (10 percent). There have been no Bank loans. Three IFC invest-
ments (one of US$535,000 for a tea factory; a second of US$226,000 with
contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory;
a third of USS249,000 also to expand the tea factory) were signed in 1976,
1980 and 1985, respectively. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and IFC investments.
15.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled
US$49.1 million, compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. The
aunual disbursement rate increased steadily over this period, to reach
about 25 percent in FY85 which is above the average for countries of the
Eastern and Southern Africa Region. There are no problem projects in
Rwanda.
16.       The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy which
has emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
heing to increase food production as well as export crops, while maintain-
ing soil fertility; (ii) human resources development, focusing on support
to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural producti-
vity, provide skilled manpower, and influence atritudes on the population
issue, and, more recently, on family planning programs per se; (iii)
infrastructure development, particularly roads, to reduce the country's
isolation and to provide incentives to further intensification of
agriculture as well as increased specialization and diversification through
better marketing; (iv) energy, to lessen the country's demand for fuel
imports; and (v) development of small and medium-size enterprises in
manufacturing and other sectors.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and
inhibits project preparation and implementation. Intensive technical
assistance and on-the-job training of Rwandese staff have, therefore, been
a salient feature of the Bank Group program for Rwanda, both under indivi-
dual projects in various sectors, and through a free-standing technical
assistance project (Credit 1217-RW which became effective in November
1982). This project has helped strengthen inter-ministerial coordination,
provided training to staff in the studies units of concerned agencies, and
contributed to improve the preparation of the next five-year plan.
18.       The Rank Group program has been pursued in a cjLaate of good
relations with the Government. In all sectors in which we are active,
there exist a general receptivity to our advice and willingness to take
action where required. In agriculture, improved sector management as well
as more rigorous project planning and financial controls have been
attained, with a shift away from integrated rural development schemes to-
wards more directly productive projects. In the highway sector, our active
dialogue with the Ministry of Public Works a-.d Energy is now focusing on
the ways to reduce reliance upon expatriate expertise. In industrial deve-
lopment, we have gained Government's commitment to promote small-scale
enterprises. In the education sector, we had difficulties due to two
misprocurements (some six years ago) and an overly ambitious education
reform proposal at the primary level. However, a positive dialogue with
the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINIPRISEC) has emerged in



- 6 -
the past three years; the Ministry has since adopted a less costly and
lengthy primary cycle. On population, our initially cautious approach to
Government has developed into cooperative efforts to promote suitable
family health and planning programs.
19.       The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and popu-
lation. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote intensification
by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural research and exten-
sion capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector institutions - the
Rwandese Research Institute and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the popu-
lation sector, our program involves close collaboration with the National
Population Office (the agency responsible for designing and promoting
educational programs and service delivery systems for family planning),
support to maternal/child health initiatives through the Ministry of
Health, recently reorganized, and to participate more effectively in other
efforts to deal with Rwanda's bourgeoning population problem.
20.       Since the mid-1970's, the Bank Group has been active in the
industrial sector in an effort to assist Rwanda's small private sector
which has been developing rapidly under a stable environment and a growing
economy. BRD has been the main instrument for IDA's intervention in this
field. Under our first and second BRD credits (approved in FY77 and FY79,
respectively), the main objectives were to help improve BED's project
appraisal capability, internal organization and accounting procedures.
These objectives have now been largely achieved (para. 44). With a third
BRD credit (approved in FY83), we began to help BRD and Government in
starting a concerted effort to assist SSEs, including improvements to BRD's
SSE appraisal and loan processing procedures, and funds to support a SSE
pilot program by BRD. The credit also provided technical assistance to
help Government to carry out a study of issues facing SSE development, to
prepare the way for a more substantial IDA contribution at a later stage.
We also sent a mission to Rwanda to review the prospects for manufacturing
development in the country, as a basis for fruitful dialogue with the
Government on development issues in this increasingly important sector in
the economy of Rwanda (para. 45).
21.       Our dialogue with the Government has also had a macroeconomic
dimension. Rwandese authorities have recently indicated readiness to pro-
ceed with the preparation of an economic recovery program (-Programme de
Relance'), and asked the Bank's assistance in its formulation. A Bank eco-
nomic mission recently visited Rwanda in response to this request. The
mission's work, which extended in particular over agriculture and mining
sectors and public enterprises, will help further strengthen the coopera-
tion between Rwanda and the Bank at the macroeconomic level.



- 7 -
Part III. THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Manufacturing Sector
Structure and Performance
22.       Despite the predominantly rural nature of its economy, Ibranda has
a relatively significant manufacturing sector, representing about 17 per-
cent of GDP and employing some 40,600 people. During the period 1977-83,
the sector expanded at an average rate of 8.7 percent p.a. in real terms,
with little structural change. The sector remained mostly composed of
artisans and small enterprises producing commodities, such as banana wine,
bricks, baskets, wood furniture and other basic goods for the domestic
market. There are now a total of only 80-100 medium and large enterprises
with more than 30 employees, including some 20 public and mixed-ownership
enterprises. They generate close to 40 percent of industrial value-added
and provide some 14,000 jobs, or about 35 percent of the sector's total,
the rest being generated by SSEs (i.e., about 60 percent of industrial
value-added and about 65 percent of industrial employment).
23.       Modern manufacturing is concentrated mainly in Kigali, the capi-
tal, wbere infrastructure is relatively more developed, although some towns
in the regions are also gaining importance. With the exception of food
processing, modern manufacturing relies mainly on imported inputs. Produc-
tion is typical of the first generation of import substitation, with ex-
ports confined largely to processed coffee, tea, pyrethrum and a few other
products. Most firms enjoy a relatively high level of effective protection
and some have the benefits granted hy the investment code (paras. 33-34).
24.       Since 1977, a significant change has taken place in ownership
pattern of modern industry. Out of 22 industrial projects completed during
1977-82, 13 became fully or majority state-owned. At present, about a
third of the capital in modern manufacturing belongs to the public sector.
The Government's increased intervention in manufacturing resulted from its
desire to step up economic growth by increased investment in industry, to
promote companies of nationeml interest, and to utilize bilateral aid.
However, most of these interventions were poorly planned and implemented.
Many ventures b'-came part of the administration when completed, as no
structure was created to operate them. The Government recently decided to
reduce its direct involvement in industry. It is trying to reorganize and
improve the operation of public industrial enterprises, with a view to
finding private investors to share in the ownership or to acquire some
ventures in full.
25.       The SSE sector is diverse and dynamic and has, compared to other
African countries, developed without much institutional assistance.
Manufacturing represents only about 25 percent of SSE activity, with
agriculture, commerce and other services accounting for the rest.
Virtually all SSEs are owned by Rwandese nationals and are either family
businesses or cooperatives. Exceptionally, few SSEs are limited liability
companies. Unlike modern manufacturing, SSEs are spread countrywide.
They are productive, labor-intensive and less dependent on imported inputs
than many modern enterprises.



2b.       For better perspective in this subsector, including its con-
straints and potential, IDA financed a comprehensive study on SSEs in
Rwanda under its third BRD credit (para. 20). The work, carried out by BRD
and the Centre Africain de Statistiques et d'Economie Appliquee, covered
220 enterprises, 146 of them located in rural areas and 74 in Kigali and
the other three major cities of Rwanda. The study, which was submitted to
the Government in December 1984, revealed considerable development poten-
tial for SSEs in Rwanda. SSEs are less constrained by the small size of
the local market and there is ample scope for development in such diverse
areas as food processing, agricultural tools, livestock, construction
materials, etc. However, the sector also faces severe constraints. More
than modern enterprises, SSEs suffer from a lack of incentives, limited
availability of training facilities, and difficult access to bank credit,
although they appear to have substantial borrowing capacity as their debt/
equity ratios are generally low. The project proposed in this report will
address to resolution or alleviation of some of these problems (para. 33-
3b). The USAID has also been active in Rwanda's SSE sector and current and
prospective USAID operations in this field will contribute to the attain-
ment of some of the proposed IDA project's objectives. Notably, a recently
approved  Rwanda private enterprise development project  by the USAID will
offer training facilities from which SSEs may benefit. Another USAID pro-
ject, concerning -economic program initiative for Rwanda-, will include
support for policy reforms related, inter-alia, to investment code, Special
Guarantee Fuad, price controls and import tariffs. During preparation of
the proposed IDA project, we have had close coordination with the USAID,
and the IDA project will benefit considerably from the improved policy
framework for private investments which the current USAID project is aiming
for.
Industrial Policies and Issues
27.       Responsibility for the formulation and implementation of indus-
trial policies in Rwanda is shared by four agencies. The Ministry of
Mining, Industry and Artisanat (MINIMART) has the overall responsibility
for industrial policy formulation, but mainly concentrates its efforts on
industrial promotion, including SSEs, and on issuance of industrial
licences. It also plays a role in the granting of benefits under the
investment code and supervises the Bureau for Industrial Promotion (BPI),
created in 1977 to prepare industrial projects and to assist enterprises in
difficulty. The Central Bank (BNR) controls import licensing and all
foreign exchange transactions, and sets interest rates charged by most
financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MINIFINECO)
influences industrial development through taxes and import tariffs and
approves the benefits proposed by MINIMART under the investment code. The
Planning Ministry (MINIPLAN) coordinates the preparation and follows the
execution of the country's industrial investment program.
2s.       To regulate and assist the industrial sector, the Government
relies essentially on the same policy instruments used by most other
African countries, but applies them with a certain liberalism, allowing
some competition from imports and often amongst local producers. Recent
measures taken to protect the country's foreign exchange reserves have,
however, increased the level of protection accorded to local industry
(para. 29).



-9-
29.       Import licencing.  All imports are subject to licencing, but
licences are usually granted without difficulty. Restricting imports of
competing goods to protect local producers has not been Government policy,
though, in a few cases, imports have been temporarily banaed. However, in
an effort to reduce the level of imports, the Government iatroduced in
March 1983 a scheme requiring importers of certain goods to place a 100
percent local currency deposit with BNR at the time the import license is
issued. The deposit earns interest, but since imports take four to six
months to arrive, this measure imposes considerable strain ona the liquidity
of importers. Goods covered by the regulation include those carryiag high
import duties as well as most goods produced locally. Industrial inputs
are not affected. Applications for import licences have fallen since the
scheme was introduced.
30.       Import tariffs.  Imports are subject to a customs duty varying
from 5 percent to 20 percent, a fiscal duty of up to 130 percent of the
c.i.f. value, and a bonded storage tax of 3 percent of the c.i.f. value. A
preferential rate of 1 percent is applied to items exempted from import
duties. The tariff structure shows a familiar pattern: exemptions or low
duties on raw materials, intermediate and capital goods, as well as con-
sumer goods not produced locally; and high rates on consumer goods and
luxuries. In general, duties increase with the stage of processing.
31.       The large differences ia duty rates result in widely different
rates of protection to various manufacturing activities. The fact that
Industrial inputs attract low duties (or are exempted) provides little
incentives to develop local substitutes and may discourage iadustries that
could be viable in Rwaada.  On the other hand, high duties on consumer
goods encourage local production that is economically inefficient. The
Government is aware of the need for changes in the tariff system and has
initiated a comprehensive study of the tariff structure with a view to in-
troducing better incentives for local producers. The study is expected for
completion by early 1986.  The CGoernment, by July 1, 1986, will review
with IDA the study's recommendations and its proposed timetable for
introducing necessary changes to Rwanda's import tariffs structure.
32.       Price controls.  In March 1983, the Government introduced a form
of ex-ante price control under which all prices should be approved before
goods are sold. Manufacturers can claim a net margin of 15 percent, while
traders are allowed a gross margin of 15 percent (wholesale), or 25 percent
(retail).  However, the system is not applied strictly.  While importers
are required to submit price information to the Commerce Department, their
proposed prices are approved automatically within 24 hours. With regard to
local manufacturers, only two enterprises having a special agreement with
the Government have had their prices reviewed by the administration.
Twenty others (all large enterprises) submit the information requested, but
are, in fact, free to sell their products at prices they deem reasonable.
SSEs are not affected by this ruiling as the Commerce Department does not
require tnem to provide price information. As applied now, the system
operates merely as a price registration procedure and does not constrain
importers and manufacturers.



- 1u -
33.       Investment Code.  The code offers eligible investors the follow-
ing guarantees and fiscal advantages: (i) repatriation of interests, divi-
dends, and the original capital invested at the official exchange rate;
(ii) exemption from import duties on imported inputs and equipment; (iii)
tax holidays for five years, and reduced taxes for the subsequent two
years; and (iv) a wide range of benefits in the case of projects that are
of special importance to the country and involve large investments, includ-
ing, inter alia, relief from various duties and taxes for a period of up to
15 years, restrictions on competing imports, and guarantee of Government
orders.
34.       To qualify for the advantages, a project should have a minimum
investment of RwF IU million (US$95,250) for local iavf.stors and RwF 20
million (US$190,500) for foreign investors. Twenty eight enterprises (all
large enterprises) have benefitted from the code. The SSE study (para. 20)
shows that only 15 percent of the surveyed SSEs fulfill the minimum in-
vestment requirement and that 94 percent had never heard about the code.
Thus, to be of value for large number of SSEs, certain amendments have to
be made to the code. For SSEs, the benefit package should emphasize the
tax exemption aspects, as many small enterpreneurs are less interested in
the other benefits: they do not repatriate profits; they seldom import
their equipment and other inputs directly, and they resort to limited bank
borrowing. Some medium-sized enterprises are also constrained in their
access to benefits under the code. Aware of these special needs, the
Government has recently set up an interministerial committee to recommend
on a special regime within the code for small and medium-sized enter-
prises. The committee's work is fairly advanced; its report and recommen-
dations will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval by June,
1986. The special regime would emphasize the tax exemption aspects of the
benefits package and set clear eligibility criteria for small and mediua-
sized enterprises.
35.       Special Guarantee Fund.  A Government action in favor of SSEs has
been the creation of a Special Guarantee Fund to help enterprises unable to
meet normal security requirements to obtain loans from financial institu-
tions. Contributions to the Fund come from a 10 percent levy on the
pre-tax profits of participating institutions, which comprise BRD and com-
mercial banks. To obtain a guarantee, a request must be submitted, accom-
panied by a substantial amount of documentation, to an interministerial
committee composed of 7 members and chaired by a Director General of the
MINIFINECO. Because of its cumbersome procedures, the Fund has not been
functioning well. Over the last six years, only a handful of guarantees
were issued and the more than RwF 1bU million (USS 1.5 million) contributed
to the Fund have remained largely idle in a BNR account.
36.       The Government intends to amend the existing Policy Statement and
Procedures for the Fund to allow for: (i) clearer eligibility criteria, to
reserve the Fund benefits for promoters of productive projects in agricul-
ture, fisheries, industry and mining; (ii) simplified requirements for
documentation by applicants; and (iii) automatic payments out of the Fund,
up to 80 percent of any principal arrears, when a loan is more than one
year in arrear. These changes are adequate and should improve the func-
tioning of the Fund.



- 11 -
B. The Financial Sector
Present Set-up
37.       Rwanda's financial system consists of the followvng institutions:
BNR, three commercial banks (Banque Commerciale du Rwanda, Banque de
Kigali, and Banque Continentale Africaine, Rwanda - BACAR), a network of
cooperative banks (Banques Populaires, created in 1975 with Swiss aid), a
Savings Association (Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda), a mortgage bank (Caisse
Hypothecaire) and a development bank (BRD). With the exception of commer-
cial banks, all other institutions are totally, or to a significant extent,
Government owned.
38.       Financial institutions are supervised by BNR which sets strict
criteria for their lending operations, including the following: institu-
tions accepting deposits from the public will have, at all times, to main-
tain their equity to at least 10 percent of their liabilities. Equity
participations by banks will not, unless approved by BNR, exceed 10 percent
of the bank's net worth and 20 percent of the company's share capital; the
financial institutions' exposure limit to any single enterprise is set at
25 percent of their net worth, which may not he exceeded without BNR's
express authorization.  However, BRD's lending policy is not subject to BNR
regulations, hut is set by its Board.
39.       Commercial banks are active mainly in import and export financing
and overdrafts to local companies and their medium-term lending (^^e to
four years) is limited to a maximum determined by their net worth plus
deposits of more than a year's duration, minus fixed assets, equity parti-
cipations, doubtful debts and losses. Among commercial banks, Banque Com-
merciale du Rwanda is the most active in medium-term lending, holding about
30 percent of total medium-term credit outstanding at the end of December
1984. Because of the short-term nature of their resources, commercial
banks require BNR authorizion before engaging in long-term lending (more
than four years) which is the domain of institutions such as BRD and the
Caisse Hypothecaire. BRD is the most important long-term lender, account-
ing for 72 percent of the RwF 2,712 million (US$25.8 million) long-term
credit outstanding at the end of December 1984. The rest is mostly held by
commercial banks which are allowed by BNR to provide long-term housing
finance, given the still relative inactivity of Caisse Hypoth&caire in this
field.
Availability of Finance for Industry
40.       In general, BNR ceilings assigned to commercial banks have not
prevented them from meeting manufacturing firms' short-term credit needs.
However, term credit is more limited and mainly provided by BRD through
lines of credit from foreign donors, notably IDA.
41.       SSEs, nevertheless, have more difficulty than other ventures in
finding hank credit for their development. According to the SSE study
(para. 20), less than 25 percent of the enterprises surveyed had obtained a
bank loan, although about a half of the total bave had at one time or
another applied fo-r credit. Credit to SSEs is not well-organized or deve-



- 12 -
loped. Short-term credit, mainly to small enterprises in commerce, trans-
port and construction, is provided to a limited extent by commercial banks,
and by the Banques Populaires. The Banques Populaires are also active in
term lending, but most of their loans have been to individuals for housing
improvements and car purchases. Expansion of credit for directly produc-
tive activities is hindered hy the Banques Populaires' lack of appraisal
capability and the high administrative costs of processing and supervising
a large number of small loans. Commercial banks are reluctant to engage in
term lending to SSEs because of the high risks involved. Uowever, with
pending improvements in the operation of the Special Guarantee Fund (para.
36), it is expected that commercial banks will be more active in SSE
lending. Since 1982, BRD has been giving attention to SSE lending and,
with support of this proposed project, would substantially improve the
availability of term credit for them.
Interest rates
42.       Interest rates by lending institutions (except BRD) are regulated
by BNR. Following a substantial upward revision in November 1979, interest
rates remained unchanged, except for minor modifications. The maximum
rates for term deposits of one month to one year vary from 7.5 percent to
8.75 percent and range from 8.75 percent to 11.87 percent for savings bonds
of one to five years maturity. These rates include a tax equivalent to 20
percent of the rate to be paid by the banks to the Treasury. On the lend-
i-ag side, short-term credits for general imports and overdrafts, which
represent the bulk of commercial banks' lending, carry rates of 14 percent
and 14.5 percent, respectively. Other lending rates are 4 percent for tea
exports, 5 percent for mining exports and 9 percent for coffee collection
and imports of essential goods.  The lending rate for productive invest-
ments approved by BNR is 11 percent. Other term loans carry rates between
12 percent and 14 percent. In view of the present and projected rates of
inflation (about 6.0-6.5 percent), all the rates are positive in real
terms, excepting those on short-term credits for tea and mining exports.
Foreign Exchange System
43.       Rwanda has a relatively open economy compared to those of some
other African countries. The foreign exchange system is virtually free of
restrictions on current international transactions. Repatriation of dis-
tributed dividends is allowed and resident expatriates can transfer up to
60 percent of their net annual income. Manufacturers can obtain foreign
exchange from BNR for imports of equipment, inputs and spare parts. With
the approval of BNR, foreign investors can repatriate the capital invested
after sale or liquidation of their business ventures.
C. IDA Lending Strategy
44.       The project completion report on the first ERD project, prepared
in 1983, concluded that BRD has successfully emerged as a sound development
finance company capable of appraising medium-sized development projects and
has become the main support for the development of the private sector in
Rwanda. The execution of the second and third BRD projects, which will
further strengthen BRD, has been progressing satisfactorily.



- 13 -
45.       The Third IDA credit for BRO helped BRD and Government in start-
ing a concerted effort to assist SSEs, which included simplifying and
improving BRD's SSE appraisal and loan processing procedures, funds to sup-
port BRD's SSE pilot program and a study of issues facing SSE development
in future. The IDA manufacturing sector report (para. 20), which was dis-
cussed with the Government in June 1985, confirmed the importance of
assisting SSEs and identified a number of issues for particular attention
(paras. 27 to 3b). IDA's development strategy in the industrial sectol is
now aimed for:
(a)  continued institution-building at BRD as it is going through a
major reorientation of its operations towards SSE and agricultural
projects financing;
(b) transfer of increased resources through BRD to assist development
of private sector in Rwanda;
(c) improvement of the policy framework for SSEs to include: (i)
improvement of the operation of the Special Guarantee Fund (para.
36); (i_) simplification of administrative procedures for esta-
blishing new enterprises; and (iii) establishment of a special
regime for SSEs and medium-sized ventures in the investment code
(para. 34);
Cd) strengthening of the Government's capacity to analyze sector deve-
lopments and to formulate investment programs for industrial
sector; and
(e) assisting the Government in reforming the incentives system to
include: Ci) establishing clear criteria for access to benefits
under the investment code and improving its administration (paras.
33-34); (ii) abolishing the 100 percent import deposit requirement
for imports competing with local manufactures (para. 29);  iii)
adopting a realistic exchange rate system; and (iv) establishing a
more neutral incentives system for all manufacturing firms.
46.       These IDA objectives may be attained through IDF operations,
technical assistance, dialogue with the Government and, if warranted,
policy-based lending.  The proposed project would make a significant con-
tribution towards IDA's attainment of the foregoing development objectives
in the sector.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project would be the fourth IDA operation in support
of BRD. An appraisal mission visited Rwanda in February-March 1985. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington from October 1b to November 8, 1985; the
Rwandese delegation was led by Mr. Theodore Mpatswenumugabo, Director of
Study Bureau, MINIFINECO. A detailed description of the project components
is presented in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 5791-EW, dated October 31,



- 14 -
1965, being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Supple-
mentary project data are included in Annex III of this report.
A. THE PROJECT INSTITUTION
Background
48.       The Rwandese Development Bank (Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
- BRD), which would be the beneficiary of the proposed IDA credit, was
established by the Government in 19b7 as a limited liability company to
encourage creation and development of enterprises in Rwanda, to promote
diversification of the country's economic structure, and to help attract
foreign investment into the country. To fulfill these objectives, BRD has
been authorized to grant term loans or guarantees and make equity partici-
pation in enterprises. It may receive deposits from enterprises it
assists, administer funds, issue notes, and borrow in Rwanda or abroad.
The institution is autonomous.  Its investment decisions are made on the
basis of staff appraisal results deriving from financial, economic and
technical merits of projects proposed for its financing.
Capital Structure
49.       BRD's share capital consists of -A7 shares (which must account
for at least 55 percent of total share capital and are reserved for the
Government and public Rwandese agencies and institutions), and 'B' shares
(designated for private and foreign shareholders). There are no differ-
ences between the rights and privileges of either category of share-
holders. Since 1967, five share capital increases have taken place,
including a raise in June 1983, when the authorized capital was set at RVF
1.12 billion (US$10.7 million). Ownership of the share capital is now
distributed as follows: public sector 55.1 percent, domestic private
sector 12.5 percent, and foreign institutions 32.4 percent (including
French, German, Dutch, Belgium and Japanese participations).
Management, staffing and organization
50.       BRD's Board of Directors consists of 13 members, seven of whom
represent the "A' shareholders, and six the "B" shareholders. The Presi-
dent of the Republic appoints the Board Chairman. The Board meets on a
regular basis to determine BRD's policy and to approve equity participa-
tions, guarantees and loans exceeding RwF 3 million (US=28,571).
51.       BRD's Managing Director, a Rwandese national, is capable and well
respected by the Government and the business community in Rwanda. In the
day-to-day management, he is assisted by two competent Rwandese directors,
one in charge of BRD's Department of Finance and Administration and the
other responsible for its Investments Department. There are also two expa-
triate technical assistants: (i) a management specialist recruited in
1984, who works in BRD's project supervision division and advises clients
on management matcersj and (ii) a highly experienced development banker who
has worked closely in various capacities at BRD since 1975 and has been
instrumental in helping make BRD the strong financial institution it now
is. The latter's contract, which is financed under German technical



- 15 -
assistance, will expire at the end of 1985. The Government will seek an
extension.
52.       BRD's staff, 90 in total, including thirty-nine professionals,
has almost doubled within the last three years in line with the expansion
of BRD's operations.  Salaries are adequate and there is little staff turn-
over. BRD's staff training program relies mainly upon practical on-the-Job
training by the expatriate development bhnker and other BRD senior staff.
Such training has yielded good results.  However, with the increasing com-
plexity of the operations, BRD's staff will also need external training to
keep them abreast of developments in their fields of expertise. Under an
expanded training program, to be financed from BRD sources, BRD will have
three staff members per year to participate in seminars and development
finance-related courses of up to three months each outside Rwanda for the
next two to three years.
53.       BRD's Investment Department is responsible for project appraisal
(including SSEs), supervision and technical assistance; the Administration
and Finance Department is in charge of disbursements, loan collections, and
relations with foreign donors. In addition, a new Studies and Development
Department is now being organized to: (i) focus on agriculture and sector
studies as a basis for new operations; (ii) undertake macroeconomic stu-
dies; and (iii) examine the development impact of BRD-financed projects.
BRD's increased activity and exposure in the regions have resulted in a
wide geographical dispersion of its client base.  BRD, therefore, plans a
phased establishment of small regional offIces (initially two) to provide
assistance to its clients in the interior of the country.
Operating Policies and Procedures
54.       BRD's policy statement, which was amended in May 1985, places
emphasis on analysis of economic impact of projects and reflects the re-
orientation of BRD's lending towards SSEs and agriculture. It provides for
BRD's avoidance of the foreign exchange risk on loans from foreign donors
and clarifies its procurement and dividend policies.  The statement is
satisfactory.
55.       BRD has made significant progress in improving the quality and
standard of its appraisal work. Projects are now more thoroughly analyzed
financially and technically and, in some cases, redesigned to ad;, t them
better to conditions in Rwanda. Under the second and third IDA credits,
BRD has undertaken to calculate economic rates of return for all non-
services sector projects above the free limit of US$200,000.  As of June
30, 1985, the 63 projects financed under these credits, which extended over
several economic sectors (39 percent in industry, 38 percent in agriculture
and the remaining 23 percent in services, including tourism), were all
*udged to he viable with economic and financial rates of ret-ura in most
cases ahove 15 percent. Individual project size varied from USS10,000 to
US$250,000 equivalent for SSE operations, with an average cost per job of
about USS7,000, and up to USS4 million equivalent for larger enterprises,
with an average cost per job of USS26,000 equivalent. Although 3RD has
progressed in strengthening economic standards of its appraisal work, how-
ever, there is still room for improvement. The project completion report,



- 16 -
which was prepared in 1983 on the first IDA project (para. 44), underlined
the need for improvement in economic analysis of projects. BRD's expanded
training program (para. 52) will give priority to staff training in this
area. BRD's supervision procedures are satisfactory, with staff visiting
each project at least twice a year. BRD's policies regarding foreign
exchange risk, interest rates, procurement, disbursement and audits are
discussed in paras. 74, 80, 81 and 83 below.
BRD Lending to SSEs
56.       Until 1982, BRD required SSEs to provide the same information
asked from larger enterprises as a basis for its lending. Many SSEs could
not comply and their applications were not processed. According to a BRD
review of its experience with SSE financing (conducted in 1981), during the
six year period ending in 1981, BRD received an average of 63 SSE loan
applications per year amounting to about RwF 140 million/year, but pro-
cessed only 15 percent of them. Staff constraint and a higher priority
given to processing of larger loans have also played a role.
57.       The lower priority given by BRD to SSE financing was due to the
higher administrative costs involved and bad debt losses associated with
such lending in the early years of the SSE progam. The BRD's review of SSE
financing showed that, at March 31, 1982, most of the arrears over three
months was on account of BRD's SSE clients.  However, this analysis also
showed that several factors could alleviate the negative financial impact
of SSE lending. First, more experience in the sector should lead to
improved repayment performance through better criteria for selecting
projects and promotors. Second, streamlining of loan processing procedures
for SSEs should hold down administrative costs. Third, an increase in BRD
lending rates should help improve its average spread and profitability.
Fourth, access by BRD to an effective loan guarantee scheme could help
minimize the financial impact of bad SSE loans.
58.       To expand its SSE lending operations, BRD is implementing a two-
phase program. In the first phase, which has been supported under the
third IDA project, the main emphasis remains on: (i) processing of large
backlog of SSE loan applications which were not investigated in the past;
and (ii) adapting BRD's loan processing procedures and organizational
structure to facilitate SSE lending. Application forms, appraisal reports
and loan contracts for SSE lending were thus considerably simplified and a
specific Division in charge of SSE lending was created in the Investment
Department. Supervision of SSE projects was reinforced. BRD also in-
creased its lending limit to 80 percent of total project costs for SSEs (as
compared with 50-65 percent for medium-sized and larger enterprises), and
established its own guarantee fund in 1982, using counterpart resources
from KfW lines of credit. In the second phase, which is expected to start
in late 1985, BRD intends to take a more active, promotional role with
emphasis on assistance to enterprises. Preliminary assessment by BRD of
its SSE pilot program shows encouraging results. BRD has succeeded in
decreasing its SSE-related administrative costs from 7.9 percent of SSE
portfolio in 1983 to 6.1 percent in 1984 and plans to reduce them further
to 4.5-5.0 percent in 1985-86. An increase in BRD's lending rate to 12.5



- 17 -
and 13.5 percent for all loans, as agreed with BRD (para. 74 (ii)), would
also help improve the profitability of SSE lending.
Operations
59.       As of December 31, 1984, BRD had approved loans and equity in-
vestments totalling RwF 3.8 billion (US$36.2 million). Virtually all of
BRD's financing has been to private (or majority private) enterprises.
While most of the equity investments were made before the mid 1970s, loan
approvals became important starting in 1974 and have since risen rapidly to
reach RwF 616 million (US$5.9 million) in 1984. Long-term lending now
represents between 95 percent and 98 percent of the total approvals. Over
the past six years, the BRD operations have shown certain trends which
underline: {i) an increase in loan maturities from medium towards relati-
vely longer terms; (ii) a decline in the average size of projects due to
increased SSE financing; (iii) a more evenly balanced sectoral mix among
the projects financed; and (iv) a broadening of the geographical distribu-
tion of the BRD-financed projects.
bO.       During 1982-84, BRD approved 129 projects with a total cost of
RwF 2.8 billion (USS26.7 million), of which RwF 1.4 billion (US$13.3 mil-
lion) was financed by BRD. Manufacturing accounts for about 32 percent of
the BRD project approvals, and agriculture/livestock for about 22 percent.
In general, BRD (total) lending to a single enterprise may not exceed 20
percent of its own net worth. BRD's loan approvals have steadily increased
from 1981 to 1984. The rate of increase in loan disbursements was even
faster between 1981 and 1983. Disbursements in 1984 declined somewhat,
mainly due to completion of certain investments in previous years. How-
ever, an increase in rate of disbursements is expected in 1985 and subse-
quent years.
Portfolio and Provisions
61.       As of December 31, 1984, BRD had an equity portfolio of RwF 335
million (US$3.2 million) in 14 companies and a loan portfolio of RwF 1,975
million (US$18.6 million) in 130 projects. The majority (77 percent) of
BRD's projects were totally owned by private Rwandese entrepreneurs. BRD's
total arrears of more than three montbs at the end of 1984 amounted to RwF
138.4 million (US$1.3 million equivalent), or 7 percent of its total loan
portfolio. They affected 39 projects (more than half in manufacturing and
mining) representing 19 percent of the value of the toral loan portfolio.
Forteen and a half percent out of the latter ratio comprised the overdue
principal and interest payments on the SOMIRWA and RWAKINA project ac-
counts1/. The remainder was in agroindustry and other sectors, excepting
1/ Two large investment projects, RWAKINA and SOMIRWA, account for 76 per-
cent of the BRD portfolio affected by arrears, and for 69 percent of
its actual arrears. The companies involved were set up with participa-
tion by French and Belgian interests to produce pharmaceuticals and to
engage in mining, respectively. Due to various managerial, financial
and technical problems, both companies have been incurring losses;
SOMIRWA is now being liquidated.



- 18 -
transport sector projects which have had no arrears. In 1984, BRD allo-
cated out of its profits provisions of RwF 107.4 million (US$1.0 millioa)
against its claims from SOIRIWA and RWAKINA accounts. It intends to make
further provisions in 1965. Also, it has general reserves of RwF 64.8 mil-
lion (US620,VOOU), representing 3.3 percent of the outstanding portfolio.
b2.       Although the overall quality of BRD's portfolio is good and ade-
quate provisions have been set aside for probable losses from doubtful
investments, BRD's collection performance has not improved adequately over
the last few years when the collection ratio remained under 100 percent.
In 1984, of the RwF 305.9 million (US$Z.9 million) in principal billed,
only 89 percent (US$2.6 million) was collected. If the collection ratio
remains at this level, arrears are bound to increase at a time when BRD is
reorienting its lending activity towards SSEs, a sector with potentially
difficult collection problems. Against this background, a major objective
of the proposed IDA project would be to assist BRD in improving its arrears
position. At the credit negotiations, BRD has agreed to raise progressi-
vely its collection ratio to 105 percent by 1988. IDA will closely monitor
BRD's collection performance, including its progress in implementing
appropriate action programs related to the SOMIRWA and RWAKINA accounts.
Financial Results and BED's Financial Position
b3.       Over the last five years, BRD's income from loans showed fast
growth, at an annual compounded rate of 22 percent, mainly as a result of a
doubling of the loan portfolio between 1980 and 1984, and an increase in
BRD's loan interest rates (2 percent on average) over the same period. In
1984, BRD's total income was 15 percent above the 1983 figure, but net pro-
fits were substantially lower (RwF 22.1 million - or US$210,000 equivalent
in 1984, compared to RwF 72.5 million in 1983) primarily due to record pro-
visions related to the RWAKINA and SOMIRWA accounts (para. 61). The 1984
provisions amounted to 5.7 percent of the average loan portfolio, up from
2.5 percent in 1983. Financial charges as a percentage of the average debt
increased from 4.1 percent in 1983 to 4.7 percent in 1984 and reflected the
increasing cost of BRD's borrowings. Administrative expenses were,however,
tightly controlled, and amounted to 2.3 percent of the average total assets
in 1984, down marginally from 2.5 percent in 1983.
b4.       BRD is a financially sound institution.  Over the past 5 years,
its term debt/equity ratio has never exceeded 1:1.  At December 31, 1984,
it stcod at 0.9:1.0, well within the 3:1 limit previously agreed with IDA.
BRD's debt service coverage ratio is also good at 2.U. The Government
bears the foreign exchange risk on BRD's term debt which comes from foreign
sources. This is appropriate for a small, relatively unsophisticated DFC
which lends, inter alia, to SSEs. BRD has substantial equity resources and
47 percent of all its assets were financed from net worth. Its loan port-
folio is adequately protected, with the necessary provisions for probable
losses.
Lending Resources
65.       As of December 31, 1984, BRD had the equivalent of US$2.1 million
available for new loan approvals, of which US$110,500 equivalent was in



- 19 -
local currency and US$2.0 million in foreign exchange. The low level of
local currency resources should improve with the expected collection of
USS3.0 million equivalent in loan repayments in 1985, of which only about
75 percent has to be immediately reimbursed to lenders. In addition to its
equity, BRD's local resources include loans from BNR and Government, two
investment funds and retained earnings.
66.       BRD's foreign exchange resources consisted of eight lines of
credit from four donors (KfW, CCCE, IDA and EIB), totalling the equivalent
of US$12.6 million, and a large credit line provided by the BNR from an IMF
Trust Fund Loan. Interest rates on the foreign loans range from 0.75 per-
cent to 6.9 percent and the maturities from 9 to 50 years, with grace
periods of up to 10 years. The CCCE loan is tied to French procurement and
was intended to finance a specific project at 9 percent interest rate. The
BNR line of credit has relending rates of 8-12 percent depending on the
maturity of subloans and the sector. All other loans are relent at BRD-
established rates and carry no restrictive conditions on procuremeat.
Prospects
67.    Projected Operations. BRD's project pipeline for the next two years
exceeds by far its resource availability for that period. These projects
include 23 medium and larger lending operations with a total investment
cost of about US$70 million equivalent and numerous SSE ventures. Although
the level of possible BRD financing is yet to be decided for a number of
large projects, BRD has already been approached for lending amounting to
about US$14 million equivalent. With regard to SSE lending, BRD expects to
at least maintain the level of approvals reached in 1983-84 of US$1.5
million equivalent per year.
68.       Despite the strength of its project pipeline, BRD plans to main-
tain a cautious approach to its approvals, particularly because it recog-
nizes the potential risks in proceeding too fast with SSE operations.
Because of this and the fact that the forecasts are based on the operations
of a particularly active year (1984), the BRD projections assume a steady
but cautious 5 percent nominal growth ia loan approvals over the next 3
years. On that basis, total approvals would grow from US$6.7 million
equivalent in 1985 to USS7.6 million equivalent by 1988. Commitments over
the same period (also the commitment period of the proposed IDA credit)
would total US$28.5 million equivalent of which about 66 percent would be
in foreign exchange (para. 79). Disbursements over the period would be
about USS26.5 million equivalent. These RRD forecasts are realistic.
69.       Projected Financial Condition and Financial Results.  BRD's
financial forecasts are made in current terms and assume an increase in the
average cost of BRD's new borrowings from about 7 percent at present to
about 8 percent p.a., taking into cnasideration the anticipated costs of
external borrowing. In the face of increasing resource cost and given the
necessity to continue making substantial provisions against certain invest-
ments (para. 63), BRD will increase its interest rate on loans from about
12 percent on average at present to 12.5 percent for directly productive
projects and 13.5 percent for service-type projects. This wotild permit BRD
to have a spread of about 5 percent on its new borrowings (para. 74).



- 20 -
70.       On the basis of the above adjustments, BRD's net income should
resume a steady rise from its low point in 1984 (para. 63) to reach about
US$610,000 equivalent in 1988. Although the latter is still low in real
terms compared to past years, it conceals the underlying financial strength
of BRD, due to its conservative provisions policy (with reduced future
risks of loss and ample cashflow gains in the process). The projections
also indicate that BRD's financial structure will remain sound. Over the
period 1985-88, BRD's debt to equity ratio should not exceed 1.2 to 1, well
within the 3 to 1 limit previously agreed with IDA, and a debt service
coverage ratio of above 2 at all times. BRD's asset/liability structure is
expected to retain its current favorable characteristics (i.e. debt liabi-
lities will continue to have much longer maturities than loan assets).
This should contribute to BRD's financial strength, to allow the institu-
tion to remain liquid over the forecast period, and enable it to overcome
any portfolio difficulties in the foreseeable future.
B. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Justification
71.       The proposed IDA credit would represent a continuation of the
Bank group's support to an effective financial intermediary - and the main
instrument in Rwanda for developing the private sector - to help it
continue providing term financing to well-conceived investment projects.
Specifically, it would: (a) support BRD as the institution moves more
forcefully into the areas of SSE and agricultural lending; (b) improve
BRD's capabilities for economic evaluatioa of projects; (c) provide the
needed foreign exchange resources for priority investments by private
entrepreneurs; and (d) help improve the policy framework for SSEs and
develop indigeneous entrepreneurial capabilities in Rwanda. The support
for SSEs would be particularly valuable to the economy of Rwanda as this
sector offers good potential to alleviate Rwanda's pressing unemployment
problem.
Project Content
72.       Under the proposed project, IDA would lend SDR 8.5 million
(US$9.0 million equivalent) to the Government of Rwanda, which would onlend
the proceeds to BRD under a subsidiary loan agreement. Execution of a
satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of the IDA
credit effectiveness. BRD would use the IDA credit proceeds to finance the
foreign exchange cost of its eligible. subloans, allocating SOR 4.7 million
equivalent to finance medium-sized and larger projects and SDR 3.8 million
equivalent for SSEs. The maximum loan size for SSE projects would be
US$230,000 equivalent.
Relending of Credit Proceeds
73.       Selection of Subprojects.  IDA credit proceeds would be used to
fisance the foreign exchange cost of capital investments, including initial
working capital, in subprojects approved by BRD. All projects that are
within BRD's scope of operations would be eligible, provided they are of



- 21 -
high economic priority, selected by BRD in accordance with its investment
priorities and justified on the basis of a full economic analysis, includ-
ing calculation of an economic rate of return for all non-service sector
projects costing above US$200,000. SSE projects would be selected and
appraised according to BRD's simplified procedures (para. 58).
74.       BRD Borrowing and On-Lending Terms.  Since IDA would be providing
nearly a half of BRD's foreign exchange resource needs during 1985-88,
BRD's borrowing and on-lending rates under the proposed project would weigh
heavily on its future profitability. The following are the rates which BRD
would use for its borrowing and on-lending operations:
(i)  Government onlending terms and foreign exchange risk.  Consistent
with the Bank Group policy for IDF operations, IDA funds for re-
lending to medium-sized and larger enterprises (RDR 4.7 million)
would be passed on by Government to BRD at IBRD's interest rate
prevailing at the time of the credit documents' distribution to
the Executive Directors. However, recognizing the higher admi-
nistrative costs aoA risks associated with SSE lending, funds for
relending to SSEs (SDR 3.8 million) would be onlent by Goverament
at a rate of 7 percent, so as to afford BRD a greater spread.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The
average cost of IDA funds for BRD would be about 8 percent p.a.,
compared to about 7 percent p.a. under the third IDA BRD pro-
ject. This average cost would be positive in real terms as
inflation in Rwanda is estimated at about 6-6.5 percent p.a.
during the next few years;
(ii) BRD's lending rates. BRD would further simplify its current
interest rates structure which consists of six rates reflecting
term (medium and long-term loans) and sector (agriculture/live-
stock, industry and services) differentials of its projects.
There would be two rates, one for projects in directly productive
sectors, to he set at 12.5 percent p.a., and the other for the
service-type projects which would have a rate of 13.5 percent
p.a. The new rates would represent an increase of 0.5-2.5 per-
centage points over the existing rates and would be highly posi-
tive in real terms. They would yield an average spread of 5
percent for BRD to cover administrative costs, to make adequate
provisions, and to allow profit. In future, the level of BRD's
interest rates would be reviewed with IDA at least once a year to
ensure its adequacy and competitiveness compared to alternative
sources of finance; and
(iii)  Commitment charge.  As under the previous IDA credits, BRD would
pay to Government a commitment charge of 0.75 percent p.a., from
the respective dates of subproject approval by IDA.
75.       Free limit.  The individual subproject free limit would be ia-
creased from USS200,000 equivalent under the third IDA credit to US$300,000
equivalent, in recognition of the good quality of BRD's appraisal work.
The aggregate free limit would be USS3.5 million equivalent, or about 39



- 22 -
percent of the total amount of the line of credit. As most SSE projects
would be below that free limit, IDA would review in detail the first 15 SSE
subprojects to be financed by BRD.
76.       Amortization schedule.  In conformity with the Bank Group policy
for IDF operaLions, funds for relending to medium-sized and large enter-
prises (SDR 4.7 million) would have a flexible amortization schedule that
would substantially conform with the aggregate of the amortization sche-
dules of the subloans approved by BRD and financed under the proposed
credit, subject to a maximum period of 15 years, including a grace period
not to exceed five years. Given the large number of small loans to be made
under the SSE credit allocation (SDR 3.8 million), this portion of the IDA
credit would have a fixed amortization schedule of 10 years, including five
years of grace, starting from the date of credit effectiveness.
77.       Commitment period.  The funds woule be available for commitment
by BRD until December 31, 1988.'
BRD's Total Project Costs and Financing
78.       Total commitments by BRD during the IDA project period (1985-88)
are estimated at US$28.5 million, of which US$18.9 million would be in
foreign exchange. The proposed IDA credit would meet US$9.0 million equi-
valent (about 48 percent) of the foreign exchange needs and the remainder
would be secured from other sources. Assuming that BRD would finance, on
average, about 50 percent of the total investment costs of medium-sized and
larger projects and about 80 percent of the costs of SSE projects, the
US$28.5 million forecast commitments would result in about US$53 million in
total iavestments.
79.     The financing plan for BRD's operations during the project period
would be as follows:
Financing Plan, January 1985-December 1988 (US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign      Total
I. BRD's comaitments                   9.6        18.9        28.5
II. Resources Availab'le for commit-    2.9         3.4         6.3
ments (as of December 31, 1984)
Resource Gap                    6.7       15.5         22.2
III. To be financed by:
- BRD - rolled over donor funds    6.7           -          6.7
- EDF                                -          0.4         0.4
- ADF                                -          5.0         5.0
- IDA - IV                           -          9.0         9.0
- Other donors/lenders                          1.1         1.1
Total financing                 6.7       15.5         22.2



- 23 -
Project Implementation
B0.       Procurement.  Although the responsibility for selecting suppliers
lies with project sponsors, BRD requires its clients to submit at least
three quotations to ensure that the items to be purchased are suitable for
the planned operation. In cases where substantial construction is in-
volved, BRD usually requires competitive bidding. BRD also requires that
equity funds are paid out first. Disbursements are made against presenta-
tion of invoices or relevant documentation, with direct payments being made
to equipment suppliers whenever feasible. Payouts are checked by follow-up
site visits at various project stages. These procedures are acceptable.
81.       Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed credit would be dis-
bursed on the basis of: (i) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods and
services for eligible subprojects; (ii) 80 percent of the cost of previous-
ly imported equipment purchased locally for the subprojects; (iii) 70 per-
cent of the cost of equipment produced in Rwanda from imported components
and raw materials; and (iv) 65 percent of the local cost of construction
works included in subprojects and carried out by locally-based contrac-
tors. Disbursements are expected to be completed over seven years, by
December 31, 1993.
82.       Special Account. To expedite disbursement of funds, a special
account (revolving fund) would be set up at BNR, or another financial
institution acceptable to IDA, into which IDA would make an initial deposit
of US$300,000 equivalent from the proposed credit immediately after the
credit effectiveness. This amount represents an estimated average disbur-
sement of funds over a three-month period. Withdrav'al of funds for indivi-
dual sub-loans not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent would be made from this
account on the basis of statements of expenditures. The documentation
would be reviewed by supervision missions and by independent auditors.
Disbursement of funds under the technical assistance component and for in-
dividual subloans in excess of US$25,000 equivalent would be fully docu-
mented. The special account would be replenished when funds are below
US$150,000 equivalent.
83.       Audits and Reporting.  As under the previous IDA projects, BRD
will continue to have its accounts and financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified
copies of its audited financial statements and its annual reports within
six months of the end of the fiscal year. BRD will also submit to IDA
quarterly reports, which would include, inter alia, financial statements,
resource position, statement of arrears, collection data and notes on major
projects in difficulty, including the conclusions and recommendations of
BRD's supervision staff.
Benefits and Risks
84.       It is estimated that the proposed IDA credit would support in-
vestments totalling about US$15.0 million equivalent and would help create
more than 1,500 new jobs in the Rwanda economy at an average cost per job
of USS10,C00 equivalent. The project would enable BRD to expand its sup-



- 24 -
port of SSEs and agriculture. Continued IDA support would also enhance
BRD's capability to mobilize additional foreign exchange resources from
other aid agencies and enable it to play a more significant role in the
development of Rwanda economy. Finally, the IDA project would play an
importamt role in initiating a dialogue with the Government on a reform of
Rwanda's import tariffs structure and in improving the policy framework for
SSEs.
85.       The main risk in this project relates to possible deterioration
of BRD's arrears position. This risk, however, should not be overrated:
(i) because BRD has developed a sound program for assisting the SSE sector,
the first phase of which has yielded encouraging results; and (ii) because
of the actions BRD has already initiated to deal with its two major problem
projects (para. 61) and the measure proposed in the context of this project
to improve its collection performance (para. 62).
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 26, 1985



-25 -                                                   Annex I
iiSLU .                                            Page 1 of 6
3MI,D                  -  OCtA  leicayg     Oa^t IU!!
EIDI                                 IUinUCZ G3OIPS (MiLsU?gO *aVZ3ctS1
mm                       (a mts   uc  U ?sbin  1m
In&.  - ,'oLk ,usTum,i d             Sm    of SWARA           I, 1. ot SrAi
mu (lemma me. m
ToraL                              a36*3        303         26.1
ZiOiLIMUIL                          1A.0        15.2       13.3
mw   cl uhrr  (u)                       *-          .-        270.0             238.3                    306 .
I amosmina r3 CAPIT
(tELOC,5r OF OIL . ;v _ALEN-)       10.0        11.0       13.0               62.1                     Sol.S
POUULiTIow AM  viaL zran   Cs
poPUL.AID.3C0-rt"   taTw0sh"si   2732.0       3603.0     s6n.0
IoA 00301A210  11 Of TOTAL)        2.4         3.2        *4                20.1 2.0
POPLAII0U Pm..JgctIoIs
POPsATtW to tElt 2000  HTILL)                             10.2
rT naTan POr ATIOu (HItL)                               40.0
00PfLAnT0  DMTU                                           2 .0
KOIULATIOU OS IWTY
PD SO. Mi.                       106.3       160.3       213.4              13.2                      0S.L
PM  s. ft. A3. tlAND             136.1       262.9       370.9             312.0                     126.
P     ePULATIC D.i STEsCTUr  (1)
0-14 ns                          ".2         4.3        46.6               4e.8                      63A
15-*6 TS                          53.0        51.3       30.3               50.0                     31.3
65 QD Awn                          2.6         2.7        2.0                2.9                      2.7
PI nLATIou CcWa11  UaT  (S)
TOTL                               24          2.9        3.3                2.5                      2.9
-vowM                              35 ..8                  .3                6.4                      5.1
C     mills U"M cmu TSo)            31.3       31.         51.9               67.2                     7.0
t  WIAM  WICPU (SI230S)             19.2       1L.6        19.4               17.3                     1S.0
Cm     UgCtO w am                    3.5         3.3        4.1                3.3                      3.2
WKLES. AJ.L (TS),
Usrs CZ or NMID  6mo)              ..          ..         13.3                                        6.6
IMm or FooD P. M CAPIrA
C1969-71100)                        31.0      102.0       107.0              63.3                      *2.9
M  CAPI   WP1i or
CalOSSS (10F mZOCI3DUIM)          31.0       S3.0        3.0                 7.27                    9s.5
FOTEIUS (CZ"i  ru oU)            49.0        36.0        50.0              31.9                      33.6
or 3I3 aMIKL  mIm PW.S           26.0        33.0       29.0 IC            15.7                     16.5
OSLD (CAM  1-4) (11.N MIt           37.5       32.3        26.0              23.1                      16.6
LIFE UMCI. AT  aOT  (13sS)          64.2       48.0        46.3              47.3                      52.D
KoFaN? ;. JIM    (- SWC   Si  T=S  16..3      169.3       123.0              119.5                    106.5
4CCESS 20 SaFE WATID (1POP)
sorAL                              ..          ..        34.0 Id           17.1                      *2.
Utz"                               a. _.                  s .i 7W          63.3                      67.S
tAL                                ..          ..        5S.0 7            19.3                      35.3
amss T0 ExDCrA DtISPOSaL
(Z 01 POMI.ATION)
S01*L                              ..        33.0        31.0 Id           26.5                      23.9
g.mw                               ..        03.0        D0.0 71           Gs.                       S7.7
A.                                 ..        52.0        s0.07o             2CJ                      20.7
10PM.ATION PU FUISICX           139030.0 I*  3960C.0    51340.0 Id        27T01.7                   11791.7
Mrp.  in; Mmr 1nssw              1127o0. 7a  U20oA       979o0. 71         3300.6                    2'39.3
Mr. ps MSflTA.L is1
TOa                                ..        70.0       630.0 Id         1273.6 AM.1
e6                                 ..        50.0 o       0.@7'           42*.2                     364.3
MAL                                ..        3100.0    16.0 7            3292.5                    4371.9
DPISSLUIS rn   ST    M               ..        21.2         ..                ..                       27.2
-S-
TOTAL                              ..          ..         .                  ..
01313..                               ..         .                   ..
&VEDAE 10. OF rU50S13006
.AL                                ..          ..
Pzlancw.&= or vnt=ms w-s  n
mAN                       ..          ..         .                  ..
30.6                               ..          .....
0I.M.                                                     .....
_I'BM'.''.''..



- 26 -
Annex I
PgFe 2 of 6
- SCIAL 1I0DICATUSS DATAUE1
MIT               ~~~~M?  SUCM  WUflhAIU If
lb  ____ *CIIP!  LaW t1.M  aftiC       Ing"   aa o
I 0         9 Wb- :Tc9vlm"Tm!A1t3 or SaU"                    UCAtII S. OF 343AM
UJusTD UoWuT   atos
fl l:  tOTAL                      49.0       7*0         70.0               87.0  ..
DUA                    83.0        93.0        72.0               2.6                     U00.0
poDNL                  30.0        83.0        87.0               5.9           J3U.2
SICt OUJ: TOTAL                    2.0         2.0         2.0              13.5                      I2.J
DAI                     Z1.0        3.0         3.0              13.9                      25.0
tRAI                    I.0           .0        2.0               *.1                      14.J
VOCAIOKL  nE OF SIWDnSz)            n.9        12.2        2a.6               13.2                       sJ
NPIL-T -AC    RATID
9LIP39                            39.0         D.0       35.0 o.9                                    t.
sXammim                           14.0        13.0       14.0               27.                       tS.S
PASSOCE  CAES/flmISA0 MP            0.D         0.9              .8 2.
UDIo 3M ITWJUSAJIO P                 . *        3.1        23.3               354          I07.8
hIVU/TinSAO POP                                  .          ..                2.J                      20J
VS7AP  CDMALT   XAL
t1  aS  ) C1rCATON
M3  723r5Sfl POPULTIONlU...                                0.1                5.0                      16.4
CIUD   AL  ATTDAWCPIcTA              ..          ..         0.1                0.5                     09.
tOTAL LANZ Vo.  (0sm)             155S.0      2007.0     2915.0                 .
PDLZ {nCPUi)                      4".1         8.4       ".A                34 3.2
&MEILTMS  CPUCEJ                   5A.       93.0        91.0              77.n5                    58.5
i    i Crami5 )                    la.        2.0         2.0m               9.7                     18.3
P*3TKCKPATIOS am2 (BCPI?
lam*L                            S3.         34.3        514                3.3 3nJ.
AMIS                              39.9       38.5        54.3               3.9                     604
POLNg                            3A          51.9        49.1               3.1                       D
3Uu0Imc UWtiU5 3810                 6.3         0.9         0.3                1.3                      1.3
ac Brito *-OaX JI
rcw   na Or Om COLa
L DDEUm  o ZmmLI
LJOMT A OF P321423 23
IS  5t     OF                      ..         .. P.. ...
*zuass o 2w030  ..ino1             ..     * ...           ..
LiUS? 2m3 or-F *313.                          *.          ..                 ..                       .
t0Sr  50  m or O             *     ..    *    ..      .    .                 ..
mD cmmwn t
LEVL Cses cin CW1
a                                 ..          ..        1.0 IC            13.5                      59.7
aBLa:                              ..         *.          .-               ffA0                     275.3
LvrITA?1  IXAflUZ POVUT zNm
LOUL (051 mm cel
URE,                               ....                                    113.1                    545.8
AL                                 ..         ..         43.0 Ic            7.                      201.1
ST10A? POP. QL  &MSW.=
Mum32 twm LEvEL CZ)
OLD".                                         .          30.0 /j           34.8
UUL..                                         ..     O .   .                1..
uor AVAAZ
Ia nb gr_a  warag   for ONc  Smcater eve pupatle41ealgce  au1thtSc _arn. Cerae at Oc_rd  e
_m   CM llccras depiut   M a_dlauy me dat  k  is uat .S_itmm.
Lb  Ualee etbaMle  _ted, - bu  Urt t1r ro.tor tomy _,r b.ct.aa  93 9 d  101;  eta fer 197   .cinae
1"98     1971; =- ata for 'Met bceee Etleate bateuS_ INI td 1963.
L    1s7; A  1m; 1 192.
_. 195



- 27 -
Annex I
P-ge  J of  6
DtrI%mO%s or SoCIAL  OIaeCTORS
Ness Aholibmgh the tdaa are drm- from sowmn 3euiP) 1msi dir tmma avulhnsiai, aIW ft,abli Imld amie hi nOsed dal tLk ma me. So bsierlmalmovill.
mmnga?abksit* bm rw 1or   VDt MUaIiarhred dhminens CO mmmpU 1_ bs dutesi mUatnm to  cletbg 1hr data The datl aft aesfithru  edal ie
I mbr eide of malpivmilt Amiin.uali dsarmr rmn male dulgimm bame .eatra
ITh  de ena romps am III the sasr covin pdw ofibi sbpe cmanry ad L') a mwsty goup wuh ofuzhat btighie awemp macai naa tht cornr
ps" dor  act cDontry  esul for -Hpl Incoaw Oil xporwm grou utmf.ddi,  leami  %anh Afnug and Mmdi Ea- a dmit Smam  or stow
l.0jua atnmai In 1 la    ft eeact gop dha tha *aerapa sn populame. mghwd andimzigc tman for ocu mdrolw aid howes osh wb  majoiy
oftil coitmnm a group hoe data for that indicator Srm the comerap o(courrmm aMongihi themmicrm diprnds on the x%adblhl. of data aiLan umlonri
ou:inem m1ndmatr to anotheT                                    p  T w sr     t  DDl-    in compr dng  e te a m DrtnmmOr a *s * mCMB
lb colntrt and referenot spuP
AREA (thousand sq km I                                           Crad BirthnRie pfer thoasado-Number of iive birhs in the *-a
T.al-Total surfcr area comprising land ara anrd inand waters.    per thousand of nud-year populatiDn. 1960. 1970. and 19S3 data
1960. 1970 and 1913 data                                         Crude Deoh Rare fjwr thesusondb-llmber of deatsL in the yew
Agrkcatwal-Estnatc of aIncultural area used temporanly o         per thousand or md-year population. 1960. 1970. and 10s3 data
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen aprdens or to  Geu Repidwrio. Ratire-Avcrage number of daughers a womar
be fallow. 1960. 1970 and 19B: data                              will bear in her normal reproductive penod ir she Cxpct.>nCt!
presnt agc-specaic fertilit rates. usualh five-  ear avenras ending
GNP PER CAPITA (        -SS)-GNP per capita estimates aI current  in 1960. 1970. and 1913
market pnces. calculated by same conveision method as Ifb,rd             Plsnxig-Accapsarws Amman! (thoasaimds-Annual nur-
Ewtk Aiim (19S113- basisl. 1913 data                           bhr of accepton ofbbrth-control de-vis under auspices of nationi.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPTA-Atnnual apparent                   faniul planning program-
consumption.of commerctal prinr  energy (coal and lgnite .              L #n{ Plmai-Ers tpeacentm   f    iried warsa-Thperp -
petrolcum, natural ps and hydro-. nuclcar and geothermal dec-    t4c ofmarnmed womcn of chlud-bearing ae who are practicng or
mty) in kilograms of oi equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. and   whosc husbands are pracucing any form orcontraception wonr
19B2 dam                                                        of child-bearing age are generally uomen aged 1549. altho... f.or
some countries contraceptive m   ts mncasured for otbhr ag
rOPULATION AND VrrAL SrATISTCS                                  groups.
tle  Wapafrim. Mid- Yew fthoasaadrj-As of Jtly 1 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NRI3JTION
and 1933 data
lde a!feeod Psowdaeiaa Par Cipita (1t0L-71 lUFj-1.ide or per
ULximu Pepiuuioe (pnemx   of rtar)-Ratio, or urban to total     capita annual production of all food commoditie  Producta
pMulati  differet dfitnitons of urban areua may affea compare        d  anirmal feed and seed for agriculture Food cmmodtmes
abiity of data among counnes. 1960. 1970, and 1913 data         incdude prinmary commodities (e.g suranc instead of sua-a
pAea  Prejerriem                                                whicb ame edible and contain nutrints (.g coffcc and ter are
Popufrtion a, yea, 2000-The projecton of population for 2000.   exdudedi they comprise cereals. root crops. pulse  oil seeds
made for cach economy separatel) Startng with Information on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. suarcane and sugar beets, livestock. aid
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. motality rate. and  bvesock products Aggregate production of each eountry is basee
internauonal migraton in the base yc r 19g0. these prafnters    on nationa average producer prte weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
uere projetd at fivc-year intervals on the basis of generalized  19f2 data
assumnptions until the populauon became stationary              Per C.,      t s,, ef calories (perent ofre nzrje.Comput-
S,aoimaw  popuiaroa-ls one in whict age- and sex-specfic mor-   ad from calorie equivaknt of act food supplies available a cour L-
tlita rate have not changed over a long peod. whike ag-specific  per capita per day Awailable supplies comprise domestic produc-
ferlihty rtes havc sumultancousl, remained at replaccment kleve  ton imnports less exports and changes in stock Net supples
(net reproducuon ate - I) In such a population, the birth rate is  excludc aninal feed. seeds for use in agnculture. quantities used ie
constant and equal to the deatb rmte. the age structure is also  food proessing. and lsses in distnbution  Requirements wen
constanL and the growth ratc is zro The statonary population    esumated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal acuvmn
size was estmuated on the basis of the proFected characterstcs of  and bhalth considering environmental temperture. body weights
the population in the vcar 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertilit  age and sex distibution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replamcent level                                        waste at houschold klvel. 1961. 1970 and 1912 data.
Populmiorn Umentirun-ls the tedency for population Igrowth to   Per Caper Supplp efNhoseii (grams prr &fFr-Promn contEcnt of
contnuc beyond thc time that replacemirnt-lrvel fertilit has bn  per capita net suppl- offood per day Net supply offood is deF.nc
achieved. that is. even after tbe net reproducuon rate has reached  as above Requirements for all countnes established bh  USDA
untyt The momentum ofa populauon in the year r is measured as   provide for munimum allowances of 60 grams of total protmn pce
a rmuc of the ultumate sutionary populauon to the population in  da) and 20 grams of animal and pulse protem. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that ertlity remains at replace-  should be animal proten These standards are lower than those of
ment kvd from year r onward. 1985 data                          75 grams or total protein and 23 grams o ammal protein as at
*1M    De-sk                                                    average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqAm.-Mid-year population pcr square kilometer (100 hew-    Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tars) of total area. 1960. 1970. and 1993 data                  Per Capita roein Supply From Aiuow/ and  Lae.-Protem supph
Per sq.km agricultral land-Computed as above for agnrcultural   of food derved from animals and pulses in grams per day. 1961-6!.
and only. 1960. 1970. and 19S2 data                             1970 and 1977 data.
Popnf.ioa Age Srruanre fprmenrj-Children (0-14 years). work-    ChW (qoes 1-4) Death Rare (per rhousufdJ-Numbcr ofdeaths oa
ing age (15-64 ycars). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage    dcildrer aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnd-year population. 1960 1970. and 1913 data.               group in a gien year For most developing counines data dcri,cd
PopsWi  Growth Rar (percem)-eoreLP-Annual growth rates of       from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year popublion for 1950-60. 1960-M. and 1970-13.      HEALTH
to oiom Growth Rate peer-uh-Annual growth rates                 UfL   E  rperaay at Br  (yersmi-Number or years a newborn
of urban population for 195040. 1960-70. and 1970483 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopic



- 28 -
Aznnex I
Page 4 of 6
a the uwi of or its brth werc to sta) the Name throughoin its life.  Aapti-trecen  Itaou  - pirn.urr  w'd jeconglori-Total students en.
190. 1970 and 1913 dau                                         rolled in pnmary and scondary levels dided by numbm  of
blow MowuEy -   Re (p0 etfhsaJ-Numbef oT afants who de         Imchers in the cortsponddng klvl
beform fchcug one yar of age per thousand liv bih    a w v* n
y.r. I6. I9  an  1963 data.                                    CONSIUMPT10N
Am   s  We WVau rpm-  # pf ,Jhal.                      nd. m   Pser Cws (prr rthasd PPpa hurm-Passenger can com-
Nau-Number of people (total. utba. and rural) with tsownable   pnse motor can wating lss than aght pronss. excludes ambul.
at      to ,rc watr supply (incldes teted surface waten or     ances. hearses and military vehicles
mtrclt  but DnconLtannnaed water  sh as that from protcted     Radio  ptCrJr thossand pop.d.ow -All types of receners
bomboles spnnp end Sautar   ls) as petceitasof teir rtpc-      for radio broadcast& to gcneral public per thousand or popultion.
owe poulations It an urban are a public fountasn or sandpost   e cludes un-licensed reecivers in countries and tn years when
bcated nDt more than 200 mcters from a house r) be condcd      mgtstrauon of radio wts %as in effect daLa for micenm yan ma)
as beng within teiotiacb       af thal bousc In fural aes     not be comparble since most countres aboltshed licenng
bIrom.h       w uld imply that the bousewife or nbtnsben or the
boweitold do not have to spnd a dispropoonat part O   d aty    rr Rw       f^f tI,(           l V   amen fior b      st
in fun tbe y'nWs wtcr wf.                                     to gcenrl pubbc Fr thousnd populatiotL excludes tnmsiau  Tv'
receivers iD countrs and in years when repstraton of T   ts was
AcceSS to Excrs Dposl (Prcet qfp             ea        ,       in cfft a
ml sar-Numnber of people (toal. urban. and rural) servd bw'
eacets disposal as peentages of ther tspective populations       wisp-r Cirra      p - t     d         uows the aver-
Ecrta disposal may include the collection and disposa!. with or  agc arculation of -dail% general interest nw5spaperC- defined as a
without treatment. of buman acrCeta and waste-atir b' waer-    penodical publcanor devoted prtmarils to teording genera' news
borne systems or the usw of pit prvics and similar installations  It is considemed to be -tdal- if it appears at kast four times a week
Dbpsfaioa per hyuadian-fPpulatuon divided b! number of pran-  C--ti Amui Art4d-r, pr Capira per Yew-Based on the
rusig phyicians qualie from a medicaL school at univerutty Lvel  number or tickets sold dunng the yer. including admissions to
PopdCiou per Nmri.t *    Peso.-4Pbpulautin divided by number of  drive-in cmnemas and mobile units
practicin  male ad  female gduate nurses. asustant nuses.      LBOs  FORCE
prctil nurses and nusing auaxhies-                            LABOR FsCE                               a
hpded.m pff HNosd 06--naL _am.  end rair-lPopulation             t      r  rc f tl-E t                 ) amwe perwns m-
ntouLt when, and ta) divided by thai respective ntber ,ol     chiding armed forces nDd unemployed but excluding housewives.
;spital bods available npubic and 71vatc,generalandspd ili-d  studes etc_. coverng population of AM aes Defittions an
hosi tld beds    tkaOle  p      H        neubli Hd wat  we shcnt   vanous countnes are not comparbkc 1960. 1970 and 1913 data.
na-sndy taffed biat keast one physican Esbishtments pFrov            (pwrciri-Fkanal labor force as pcrmntage of total lator
ifn  pesispaly ctu tdis  re are not incduded Rural hospitals.  orce.
howew nlude helth waneddalx  ntmrsnot pcrmanent! staffed      Agrku.bwer (percen)-Labor roce tn fming. forestry, buning
by a pban (but by a med.i  assistantt. nurse. midwife. cc.)   and fishing as percentue or total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer iin-pa     accommnodaton and provide a Imietd ran  data.
onmedicol facilities.                                         ldisrary (pevrceri-Labor force in mtning, construction. manu-
Ahddism paer N.sjpu  Srd-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. war and Ps as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospttals divided by the number of beds       forcam 1960. 1970 and 190 data.
ira     ii;o  ate (prcJ-  kd. i,e, mlnfili patlon
HOUSING                                                       or ctvity fates re computed as total, male. and fetale labor fore
.Are q- Ss if Houshold (prso  pe   'uebz4dJ-4oW. wam,         as percntag  of tortl t ale mad female populaton of al aes
m'ral-A bousebold conists oagroup or individuals who share    rcspecively. 1960. 1970. and 1913 data. These ame based on ILO s
g quwartne  and their maiwmeals A boarder or bder may or      particiption r -us reflecutng ae-se str=ucmur of wte populatior. and
nma nmot be nctuded in tbe bousehold for saustical purpoms.   long tisne trend A few estimates ae from national sources
Averqige Naw.er Iof Petd..' pr iOaM-eo1At ar11. 1cd           Ero eaoe Depeadeary Rerie-Ratio or population under IS. and
Average number of persons pcr room in all urban and rural     65 and over. te' the iworking age population (those aged 15-64
oamipied conventiortal dwellings. rpecuvely Dwdlinp exdudc
non-permanent strictumw and unoeupied parts                   ICOME DSTRIBULTION
rcearge of Uiu5   wir  Ecarciei-foeal. warl. dad rra-         Pe e    f  r Diospiadk Jaco~ (iotA a emi andu-
Conventional dwelinp with electricity in living quArters as percen-  Aainng to perntile groups of households ranked by total ;ouse-
tug of total urban, and rural dwellings respecuvedy           hold incom.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
&sed Eroaew r tenor                                           The foUowinS estimates are very approximate measures or poverty
PA'inw  school - wroto mae and fejsak-Gross taL n   a         levels. and should be interpeted with considcrable caution
fak enrollmern oral ages at the primary kvlv as perventiaes of  E-i ed AbsatbirePie  mrow Levl! lSipe ccapirc)-_bar
rtspective primar school-agc populations. While many countres  ml ,ral-Absolutc poverty incomr level is that incomc klvel
consider primnary scool age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimal nuLrtionalh adequate diet plus essntial
dilfres in comnty pracuia in the ages and duration of school  non-food reqwuements is not affordable
ae rected in the ratios wgve  For some cwntits with univcrsal  Exrria, ed  eluiWe Pberry i.e.e  Lel (LS pe cWis -arba
educati  gross enrollment may exceed 100 percntt sume sotne   and vair-Rural relative poverty ncoame level s one-third of
pupils ae below or above the country s standard prnmary-school  average per capita personal inrcome of the country. Urban level is
ag.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cosu of
Sreodwy s=h.. - owt. owak'   ferattComputed as above          living in urban areas
neodary educaion tequires at last four years of approved pn-  Estmaed Pupuler  Brlow Absofare Pewrey bconw Level (per-
may insucton. prtovids general vocationaL or tcacher trniing  carJ-orlai isa rwal- Percent of population (urban and rural
itructons for pupils usuaUly of 12 to 17 yeas  or s. corespontd-  who are absolute poor
cat cours  am gtnieay  xcluded.
V.acia-d E.,dbi-i (petewJ vfse vwdarlo-Voational institu-                Comparative Analysis and Data Dvision
oans include technicL industrial, or other progmms which operte       Economic Analsis and Projections Department
independendy or as departnents or secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 29 -
Annex I
a&Se -   of 6
AREA                                             Pofr'.AIo,                            DKw5an (113)
23.3 tlo,ammmi sq  km                            5.? malls-- (:933)                    zia per s. k.
W   Le ml Crb                        393 pgk  *qi .m. of
3.7?Z                                   frabi  lose
POPULATIOU CRARACMZU1STICS (E19P1-83                                     WALTh (3191fl)
Crude ulrnh Rate (Per 1.000)               51.9                         PeOuletloe Pt'r 3tbysic1,          3113
Crude Dea n  Into  (per 1.O!C)              19.4                        PopulatIoD PCr hospItal bed           bec
TPCOIIC D15 R:llw-?i~                                                   ESERCY CO%Sr'T1TOI PREP CAPITA
2 of sational income. bighest *vintile   *.                             (x110gc-a  of coal mquIvai.ot;   21.C
lowest quintile
ACCESS TO SAP! WATER (1930)                           _                 ACCESS TO !L!CTP1CITT
I of pepulation - total                    51.0                                   l *f popution - total       20
- Pral
"7R1ITION (1981-13)                                                     EOLCATIO'? (1910)
Calorie  nta^ke *. S of  Cqui'eUOtB-        638 .0                      Adult l.racy rate 1                 37.0
PCr Caeita protein IoCtke                   5G.0                        Prlmary  school *oroll-ant T        72.0
(grmss/day)
CGP PER CAPITA 111 1,33   :ss 270
CROSS DONESTIC PRODUCT in 1983                                                   AItUAL ILATE Or CUOW?W
(. concrant 1913 prlceas 21
OSS  iMl. 
CDP mt Market Prices           1.503.1       100.0                                           6.2
Greos  Domestic lovemmtmot       203.5        13.5                                            1
Greaoss &ational gsvg             39.6         2.6
33rreut Accoust Balalce         -170        -11.3
Eu.rc of Coods. IFS              137.3         9.1                                          -2 O3/
Imtorg Of Coeds. NPS             272.3        18.1                                           5.1
3CVERI61ET FINANICE
Central Covernuent
brF Him.                2 of CDP
Ion&           1934             1930
VArreo. leceipt.                         17.369           11.0             12.'
Current Expenditure                      1S.7S3           10.0              9.1
Crrant Surplma/d*fIcIt                    1.616           1l0               2.9
CapitA1 Kamndicures                       2.626            1.1              2.1
Oserl1 Surpluaa/dfIcit &I               -3.741           -2.3              0.3
11 Preliminary data.
2/ R-aed on end-period ealueg.
T/ The dec110- ia ezports during rhia period iS expimined by the fact that 1979 was
EC eport boo- year.
4/ The overall aurp1vi   is not equal to the dlffarenmc  between current Bowlngs sod development
*poeadIture- because the comcolidated murpluB or defICIt of the Treasury special accCunts iS net shown ID tthi
table.
act available
o *      aplicable



- 30 -
Annex r
COLWT3Y DATA -  VWADA                                       Pase 6 of 6
No0t. CURETIT AND PticEts                    1979         393t'  19      P1                      J
(NellICs" 3W.  euttasdinu en4 **Pled)
Neney upp,1y1                              I .112      1.117        15.938       16.153       13,09 3,0t74
Benk Credit  g Co.ermonst neot)            -1.473       -3.931        -2.916         412         2,010        1,922
Shk Credit to Privete Sectet                4.56          6*.410       3,1367       3.649        9637        3137
Ceracentceg  or Index Numbers)
onee? as S of CDP                             1'..         13.1         12.9         12.0         12.6         12.2
Consumer Price lodes flseS- IOC)             93.2         1oc.0        10b.5        I19.3        127.7        137.5
Annual Werc4ste*e chabs* ia:
ConsUVer Price Index                       15.6           7.3          S S         12.4           ..          7.7
tank Credit to Coverawant (met)         -1404.3        170.3         -2*.?        -71.1       -394.7         -6.9
Sank Credit tn Prlvate Sector             -11.1         *2.0          25.7          f.1         11.7         17.2
BALANCt OF PAYMENTS                                                                )-ESCNANDISE tEPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-198L)
Actual                                             DII WIn.      2
(In current CS 5)                                            11. 
39ec    19oe    1932   1933   196"I        Coffee                  33.2       *1.7
oTo                     13.7      IG.3
ortc ef Cood 4 ServIces             i*1    10    141    150    172           Crsslterige             13.0        9.6
of wbich:  nerchandlse f..b.         (13')   (113)  (109)  (124)  (141)         wolfram                  3.6        2.3
Imports of Gooda 4 Services            -323    -332   -338   -307   -309          Pyr*th,us                 3.1 1.B
ef wbhcb:  nwrcbandlve f.o.b.    (-196)  (-207) (-215) (-190) (-16)            Cinchona                I.         1.0
Itet  trasfers                           -3      -2      -1      -5       S        Otber                   18.. S3.3
Net Factor EIso.a                         S       12     -2           4                                     M IW.O     
Corroet Accoont balsce                -ISS    -163   -193   -170   -136           EmRNAL DfNT. DECEMEtR 31. 193
Official Grants                         106      106    10    112    101         Public Debt. ilmcl-uaranGted  220.0
Private Direct Invem-tenc                17       19     21      it      10       Non-Coarenteed Privet. Debt
NIL  *ff iclal Cost)                     33       2)     25      36      39       Total Oststavding * Disbureed   -
Ocber Cwltol                             12       17      *      -5      -
Changs  la breervee                     -13        1     43      19    -1         PET Ds IT SERVICE RATIO PON 1934 3f
Imtereati.enl Reserves                  1S5    I1I    123    104    116                                   -
eserves an montbs of imports            1.1     *.0    4.3    4.0    *.)          Public Debt. incI.gsSraMteed I
of goods *-d of services                                                        Nou-Cuosrent.d Private Debt
Petroleum Iuporte'/                    23.7    43.2   41.0   51.0   S1.9          Total OstetandiSg * Diebured-
Petroleus tzport                         -      _
RATE OF E3CRANCE             Asu                 Rod                               IDA LDING. HRtCP 31. 1965 CUSISig.)
Av*e-ags             erlod                              ats-dmg 4 Disbursed            162.3
1974-end Eau. 1933      Feb. 1935                           VOdiSbursed                     306.9
Outstandimg i1cluding
USS 1.00 - Xv?               92.34               106.5 SVdlobursed                                                  247.2
rWr 1.00 - USS                0.011                0.009
N?F 1.W0 - $DR                 ..                   0.010
Sol 1.00 - lv                  *.                102.71
1l Includes Nonse and amaIot money
2t ProSv Sonal
T/ Debt Servsce set of interest warned on foreign ezcbmnge reserves
as a percentage of txports of goods and NoD-Factor Servicos.
*/ Crud- Derivatiwes
not available
not applicable



- 31 -
ANNE II
pag 1 of 2
TIE SAt  OF BANK MIP OPERlTEM IN NWi
A. Statet of IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amnt US$ udlJiox
Credit ND.    Fiscal Year   Borrower                  Purpose                 (less canIcellatims)
_ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        IIYM   U rdisbirsed
(Ten credits tone teen fully dishursed)_                                       77.49
937. 2/ 3/  1979          BImrxa        Mitara Agricultural & Livestock
Develomnt                             8.75     2.65
1039-N         1980                      Integrated Forestry & Livestodc
Devlqa nt                            21.00     2.64
1057-W         1981            -         1leou,unicattns                        7.50      5.27
1126-N         1981                      C bffee/Foodcrcps                     15.00      5.75
1217-          1982                      Techical Assistance                    5.00      3.54
1250-1         1982                      Ffth Hlighway                         25.90     12.45
1263-N         1982            -         Secsrd fRucation                      10.00    8.65
1283-W         1982            -         Plase II IGesera/Gisaka/ftongo        16.30      7.91
1344-N         1983                      BRD III                                7.00      4.18
1345-RW        1983            -         wter Sipply                           13.00      6.24
142D-N         1984            -         Riz  IIJ/Hydroeectric                 15.00     11.64
1495-W         1984                     Rpwr                                    q .a. &48
1546-N 4/      1985            -         Agriaultral 1asearch                  11.50     11.50
1565-W 4/      1985            -         Techdcal Assistance II                 4.80     4.80
Total                          247.24    95.70
of wbich has been repaid            1.33
Total ;i oitstarxIig           IU
AmDmt sold            3.40
of whkh has heen raid  3.40
Total. .w beId hy ID           245.91
Total uziisiwsed                         95.70
1/ Rwanda has received no Bark loan.
2/ The M'r   credit mm coplemented by ao EEC  ecial Action Credit of US$1.7 Uillion.
L -icludirr a NRAD Grant Par       ation of 4.4 LMflion.
4 Not yet effective.



- 32 -
-II
Page 2 of 2
B. Stateamt of IEC Imvstments In Rwmdia
(as of A.gust 31, 1985)
IFC'a eidsting invetments in   ma  cmwprise the tinestments previouy me in
SDrwath and its predecessor copades, SIKF arnd ISINE. Details are as follows.
US$ mUflM
Total
Tnvestxt   Fiscal                Type of                             1e  by
Num,der     Year    Obisgor   Bu s                 LsAM    Total     IFC   Ukiisbursad
337-El      1975     Sarut1g) Tea pro-             0.54   0.54      0.24
470-R       1979     Sorwatlh) and        0.06 aV  0.23   0.29      0.13
) umeEg
764-E       1984     SVm&tbi)               -      0.25   0.25        -       0.25
Total                             0.06    1.02   1.08       0.37      0.25
a/ Canceled in Juy 1984



- 33 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                September, 1984
(b)  Project Preparation    :      December, 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission       :    March, 1985
(d)  Negotiations            :     October/November 1985
(e)  Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness  :      February, 1986
Section II: Special Conditions
A. The Government would:
Mi relend to BRD the credit proceeds, of which SDR 4.7 million
would bear interest at the rate of current IBRD lending rate, and
SDR 3.8 million would bear interest at the rate of 7 percent
p.a. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk. The
overall cost to BRD would be about 8 percent p.a. (para. 74); and
(ii)  carry out a study of Rwanda's import tariff system and review
with IDA by July 1st, 1986 an action plan and timetable for
introducing necessary changes to the import tariffs system,
taking into account the conclusions and recommendations of the
tariff study (para. 31);
B.  BRD would:
vi) increase progressively its collection ratios, to reach 105
percent by 1988 (para. 62);  and
(ii) review with the Association, at least once every year, adequacy
of its lending rates (para. 74).
C.  A special condition of credit effectiveness would be the execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and BRD (para.
72).



