Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12830
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1650-RW)
MARCH 9, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit        =      Rwandese Franc (RF)
1989          US$1  =       RWF 80
1990          US$1  =       RWF 82
1991          US$1  =       RWF 125
1992          US$1  =       RWF 125 (1st semester)
1992          US$1  =       RWF 140 (2nd semester)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGCD                 Agence Generale de Cooperation et Developpement
BNR                  Banque Nationale du Rwanda
BRD                  Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
CER                  Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda
CFD                  Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CHR                  Caisse Hypothecaire du Rwanda
CSR                  Caisse Sociale du Rwanda
DEG                  German Economic Development
FMO                  Societe Neerlandaise pour le Developpement
FSAC                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSG                  Fonds Special de Garantie
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
KFW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PFP                  Policy Framework Paper
RF                   Rwandese Franc
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF                  Structural Adjustment Facility (IMF)
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
UBP                  Union des Banques Populaires
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Dlroctor-General
Operations Evaluation
March 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Fourth Rwandese
Development Bank (BRD) Project (Credit 1650-RW)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Fourth Rwandese Development Bank (BRD)
Project (Credit 1650-RW) prepared by the African Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a clear and convincing account of the factors that
undermined the sustainability of an otherwise well-managed, conservative and successful development
finance institution. The economic decline of the late 1980s combined with the sudden liberalization of
imports and the banking sector, impositions of non-viable loans by the Government on BRD, civil strife
and armed conflict conspired to debilitate the financial health of this development bank. During 1992,
however, the capital structure of BRD was strengthened through the enactment of a capital increase and
a successful effort to collect arrears averted insolvency. Despite these actions, the financial situation and
the competitiveness of the institution remain precarious unless BRD undergoes a thorough financial
restructuring including a reformulation of its business strategy.
The project outcome is unsatisfactory and it has had negligible institutional impact. Given the
stalemate in the civil strife and its effect on the profitability of BRD, the sustainability of the project is
rated as uncertain.
The project is likely to form part of a cluster audit based on the result of the three similar projects
implemented in Rwanda since the end of the 1970s.
Attachment
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of their official duties. It contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE     ..............................................                                      i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...................................                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                 I
1.  Project Identity  ...................................                               l
2.  Background  ..........              ...........................                     1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  .......................                        4
4.   Adequacy of Project Preparation  ........................                          5
5.  Project Implementation  ..............................                              7
6.   Project Results ....................................                               9
7.   Project Sustainability ................................                           11
8.  Bank's Performance  ................................                               12
9.  Borrower's Performance  .............................                              13
10.  Lessons Learned  ..................................                               14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ....                              15
I.  Introduction ......................................                                15
II. Assessment of the Project's Impact on the Country's
Development  ...................................                                16
III. Comments on Part I of the PCR and responses to issues
raised by the World Bank, following the Guidelines
mentioned in the introduction  .  .............              .17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . .........................                                  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLMTION REPORT
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(Cr. 1650-RW)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) covers the experience with Credit 1650-RW, the
fourth of a series of lines of credit to finance enterprise development in Rwanda. Credit 1650-RW
was approved by IDA in January 1986. The Credit was made to the Government; the financial
intermediary channeling the proceeds to investment projects was the Banque Rwandaise de
D3veloppement (BRD).
This PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region, and it is based, among others, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda. Preparation of this PCR started during the Bank's
final supervision mission of the project in October/November 1992.
The PCR was sent to the Borrower for its comments which are incorporated as Part II.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The project was envisaged as a continuation of previous successful efforts to support BRD
as a viable and well managed development bank. The project provided a line of credit to finance
enterprises which would contribute goods, services and employment to the economy of Rwanda.
Almost half of the Credit funds were earmarked for financing small scale enterprises (SSEs) as a
study conducted under the BRD III project (Cr. 1344-RW) had shown the importance of SSEs in the
economic structure of the country and as a vehicle for promoting indigenous entrepreneurs. Policy
measures to eliminate restrictions inhibiting SSEs' development, as a complement to the provision
of financing, were also envisaged. As distortions in the foreign trade regime were in evidence at the
time of appraisal, the project envisaged also strengthening BRD's capacity for economic evaluation
of projects and a dialogue with the Government of Rwanda on the level and structure of import tariffs
(paras. 3.1 to 3.4).
Implementation Experience
2.        Severe problems, that could hardly have been foreseen at the time of appraisal, seriously
impaired the implementation of this project. Eirst, the economy of Rwanda which had experienced
satisfactory growth in the 70's and early 80's stagnated and declined in the second half of the decade
after the fall of coffee prices, the country's main export (para 2.7). The economic recession had an
adverse impact on all business enterprises in Rwanda, including BRD's customers. Second, in 1987
and particularly in 1988, BRD increased lending operations and disbursements well above its own
projections and financial means, falling into a serious financial squeeze. BRD, for the first time, had
to resort to short term borrowing from the Central Bank and other financial institutions and private
banks (para 5.1). Third, the introduction of liberalization measures by Government seriously affected
BRD, initially in 1987 with the "despecialization" of the banking sector that eliminated, de facto,
BRD's monopoly in term financing. In 1991, restrictions to imports were lifted, jeopardizing even
more the financial viability of uneconomic import substitution enterprises, which constitute an
important group of BRDs' customers (para 5.6). La, but not least, the civil strife and armed conflict
which erupted in October 1990, seriously disrupted the country's import routes, logistics, tourism
and economic activities in general (para 2.7).



- iii -
3.        Even under severe economic distortions, BRD committed the totality of the Credit funds
after the closing aate for commitments was extended from December 31, 1988 to June 30, 1990. SDR
4.9 million were committed for 11 large and medium size enterprises and SDR 2.5 million for 94
SSEs. All funds for large-medium projects have been disbursed but only SDR 1.4 million for SSEs.
(para 5.3).
4.        As it could be expected in a general environment so seriously degraded, project results
have been well below expectations. Some of the large-medium size enterprises financed under the
Credit have failed completely, those surviving face enormous difficulties to cope with adverse
economic trends and with shortages and instability caused by the war. The major objective of
supporting SSEs development through BRD produced mixed results. During 1987-89, BRD was able
to process and approve a large number of SSEs projects but this action heavily taxed BRD's
capability to properly handle its medium-large size customers portfolio. As civil strife ensued after
October 1990, many SSE projects, particularly those engaged in agriculture and livestock, were
seriously ravaged during the conflict. Several SSEs financed by this project did not start operations
at all, for diverse reasons, and Credit funds committed for those projects had to be cancelled (para
5.5). Nevertheless, some 250 SSE projects remain active, representing 11% of BRD's portfolio.
Under present circumstances this represents a good accomplishment for which BRD's management
is to be commended. The Bank did not particularly focus its supervision work on the SSE program
(para 6.4).
5.        The policy dialogue on economic issues, like the exchange rate and trade regime, started
under this project, was eventually pursued and measures were implemented under the Structural
Adjustment program that the Government has begun to carry out since 1991 (para 2.7).
Sustainability
6.        The slowdown of BRD's operations in 1989-91, due to its financial crisis and the
economic downturn, a capital increase enacted in 1992 and successful efforts in arrears collection,
have allowed BRD to weather the storm. With a strong capital base, BRD has been able to make
adequate provision for all failed or doubtful customers. However, BRD's sustainability in the
medium term, with a much reduced performing portfolio, is only assured if drastic rationalization
measures to cut administrative costs are carried out. These measures alone, however, would not
guarantee its long term viability in the new, competitive, environment. The design of a new strategy
to operate BRD, diversifying its services, is urgently required. Such a strategy is most likely to be
successful if BRD is privatized or if it would merge with a private bank. While efforts to privatize
or merge BRD need to wait for political normalization, BRD should not delay implementing its
restructuring, thus preventing any risk to its financial stability (para 7.2).
Lessons Learned and Action Taken
7.        In intermediation projects, when Bank funds are loaned to private sector enterprises
through local financial institutions, if serious distortions prevail in the economy (i.e. overvalued
exchange rate, highly protective import barriers, subsidies), an enterprise benefiting from the project
may obtain financial gains which would most likely not represent economic gains for the country.



- iv -
The introduction in project evaluation of an economic rate of return calculation as a means for
overcoming those distortions has not proven to be an adequate solution. That has been the experience
in this type of project in many countries and it was repeated in the BRD IV project. Either the
analysis becomes overly complex or changes in the pattern and level of distortions render the
evaluation meaningless. In the absence of an effective program of economic reforms, therefore,
support for intermediation projects should be delayed until distortions are corrected and market prices
become a fair representation of the cost of production factors.
8.        BRD IV was one of the last "DFC type" projects carried out by the Bank in Sub-Saharan
Africa. In the mid-80s, as many countries in the Region engaged in a process of structural adjustment
to reverse economic decline, new market conditions became adverse for DFCs as their main
customers, import substitution industries, were seriously affected by liberalization of imports. As
liberalization measures reached also the financial and banking sector, the single DFC approach to
channel IDA funds for term lending to private entrepreneurs also became obsolete. Such objective
is pursued now through lines of credits for term financing made available, usually through the Central
Bank, to all eligible financial institutions. Survival of existing DFCs in the new environment is by
no means assured. For that they are required not only to streamline and cut operating costs but also
to diversify their services, a strategy more likely to succeed under privatization.
9.        In the late 1980s, it became clear that BRD's problems could not be dealt with in isolation
without addressing macroeconomic issues in general, as well as financial sector issues. To that effect,
the Government embarked since 1991 on an economic reform program which was designed with the
assistance of the Bank and the IMF. Furthermore, in 1991, the Bank carried out a Financial Sector
Review which provided the basis to design a program of adjustment for the Financial Sector as a
whole, including provisions to address BRD's more immediate financial problems (para 8.4). More
recently, an IDA financed Private Sector Development Project, approved by the Board in September
1993, includes a Plan to rationalize BRD in order to cut operational costs, increase its efficiency and
make it eligible for the Apex line of credit included in that project (para 8.4). Beyond these measures,
a corporate strategy needs to be designed to address BRD's long term sustainability (para 6 above).






- I -
PROJ.ECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1650-RW)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                          Fourth Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) Project
Credit Number                 1650-RW
RVP Unit                      Africa Region
Country                       Rwanda
Sector                        Industry and Finance
2. Background
2.1         Origin of the Project. The World Bank Group has been intimately linked with the
Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD). Created in 1967, BRD was the main source of
investment financing in Rwanda until 1987. BRD is jointly owned by the Government and Public
Agencies of Rwanda (56 percent) and bilateral donor agencies ' (33 percent), while local private
investors hold the balance of 11 percent.
2.2         This project completion report covers the Fourth IDA Credit to BRD. Prior to this
Credit, BRD had been the exclusive beneficiary of three IDA Credits since 1979; the fourth Credit
(No. 1650-RW) of US$9 million was approved on January 14, 1986, and became effective October
31, 1986. The Credit is 100 percent committed, 75 percent disbursed, and will be formally closed
on the original target date of December 31, 1993. Project Completion Reports (Nos.4921-RW and
8799-RW) dated February 10, 1984, and June 28, 1990, on the first IDA Credit (No.655-RW), and
the Second and Third IDA Credits (Nos. 896-RW and 1344-RW) respectively, were circulated to the
Board. The two PCRs concluded generally that the first two IDA Credits focused on institution
building and economic development objectives, and achieved satisfactory results. However, it was
also stressed that these operations failed to address issues affecting overall financial sector
performance or its impact on the real economy. When the PCRs were issued Credit 1650-RW was
well underway. In the last PCR, a broader sectoral approach through a financial sector adjustment
operation and apex lines of credit were recommended for future financial intermediary operations.
I       CCCE (France), AGCD (Belgium), FMO (Holland) and DEG (Germany).



- 2 -
2.3         At the time of approval of the Fourth Credit in 1986, BRD had developed into a
relatively well managed, financially sound and profitable development institution. BRD was the
exclusive recipient of foreign exchange lines of credit which it channelled to long-term financing of
medium and large manufacturing and agro-industrial projects in public and private sectors. Its overall
economic impact was positive but limited to narrowly focused and urban based branches of activity,
with limited potential for employment generation. The institution's project appraisal and lending
procedures were sound and reliable, and decision-making procedures remained relatively free of
Government interference. Its loan portfolio was performing well, as BRD enjoyed virtual monopoly
on long-term credits which, unlike credit ceilings imposed on commercial banks, were not controlled
by Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR), the central bank. This BNR policy enabled BRD to select
judiciously its borrowers, relying mainly on technical and financial appraisal criteria. Moreover, BRD
implemented a systematically conservative policy of high provisions against general and loan specific
risks of losses, while reinvesting earnings to shore up its capital base.
2.4         Until the early 1980s, both BRD and commercial banks did not extend any significant
credit facilities to the SSE and agricultural sectors, owing mainly to the high intermediation costs and
financial risks involved, aggravated by Government-imposed low interest rates for SSEs. In 1982,
after reviewing its own experience with SSE lending and following the conclusions of an SSE sector
study financed by IDA under BRD III, BRD's Board approved an SSE program which included the
creation of an SSE lending Division, the simplification of procedures for SSEs' applications and
appraisals and the creation inside BRD of its own SSE Guarantee Fund.
2.5         Continued and sustained IDA financial, and especially institutional, support was
maintained and deepened. BRD appraisal and lending policies required changes, inter alia, (i) to
reorient lending towards more emphasis on SSEs and agriculture, (ii) to generalize economic rates
of return screening of investment projects, (iii) to consolidate and further reinforce the real value of
its equity base by curtailing dividend payments and protecting BRD against foreign exchange risks
on international borrowing. Real interest rates were generally positive during the period under
review, and BNR policies did not raise any particular problems.
2.6        T'he BRD IV project addressed some issues in the industrial and enterprise sector,
including the need to review the import tariff structure, eliminate price controls, strengthen the
Special Guarantee Fund created by the Government to promote SSEs, and revise the investment code
to extend incentives in favor of SSEs. No specific conditions were, however, imposed by IDA, as
the price control system was deemed to be more of an administrative ex-post registration than a
constraint to manufacturers and importers. As to the tariff structure and policies, a US-AID funded
study by the Ministry of Finance was already under way and IDA did not wish to interfere at that
moment. It was agreed that IDA would offer its advice upon completion of that study. In the final
analysis most of these issues were addressed in the context of IDA adjustment operations as reviewed
below.
2.7         Economic Background. During the 1970 - 1985 period, Rwanda enjoyed a measure
of political and economic stability, low inflation rates and sustained real growth averaging 4 percent
per annum. However, the fourth line of Credit for BRD was approved and implemented during
1986-1990, when Rwanda's economy went through a period of declining and mixed performance and
the Government was compelled to implement an economic adjustment program:



- 3 -
*  In 1986-1990 Rwanda was faced with precipitous declines in world market prices for
coffee, Rwanda's principal foreign currency earner, and unfavorable climatic conditions
which had an adverse impact on agricultural production. Real income per capita
dropped by almost 16.5 percent from 1986 onwards. Initial Government policy
responses to these adverse developments were inappropriate, and serious internal and
external imbalances ensued, further worsening the declining per capita income through
1990.
*  In 1990-1992 a series of policy and institutional reform measures were conceived to
correct these economic imbalances through a comprehensive economic reform program
supported by: (i) an IDA financed Public Enterprise (PE) Reform Technical Assistance
Credit (No. 2113-RW) in 1990; (ii) IDA's First Adjustment Credit (No.2271-RW)
approved in June 1991; and (iii) a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)
negotiated in October 1991. Although final approval of the FSAC by IDA was delayed
by the civil war, and the lack of an agreed macroeconomic framework, progress has
been made in implementing the reforms. The objectives were to achieve
macroeconomic stability, improve competitiveness in enterprises and banks, rationalize
monetary and credit policies, and stimulate economic recovery. The PE reform
measures were to streamline and rationalize that sector, restructure and privatize or
liquidate non viable enterprises, and curtail and eliminate their negative fiscal impact.
This project was reoriented in June 1993 to give greater emphasis to privatization.
*  The adjustment program, by liberalizing the tariff structure and import and export
regime and eliminating Quantitative restrictions (QRs) has had a substantial impact on
highly protected manufacturing industries by subjecting them overnight to strong
external competitive pressures at a time of civil strife and declining domestic demand.
The financial situation of many of these enterprises, which are also long-term BRD
borrowers, deteriorated significantly and led many of them to fall in arrears of
payments with BRD and other banks since 1990.
*  Finally the disruptions and partial destruction of economic infrastructures by the civil
war, particularly for international road transports in the North upon which Rwanda's
economic livelihood depends, have had further detrimental effects on the local
manufacturing industry. Lack of foreign exchange for imported inputs have
compounded the problems leaving key industries operating below capacity, if at all.
2.8         The results of the adjustment program have been affected by the war and the consequent
effect on economic activity, productive investments and government finances. The budget deficit
widened to 15 percent of GDP in 1992 as a consequence of increased non-developmental expenditures
stemming from the October 1990 breakout of civil strife and armed conflicts in the country. BRD has
consequently been affected by these developments which have led to a decline in the performance of
BRD loan portfolio and to an erosion of its equity base through increased loan loss provisions.



-4 -
3. Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1         The project's overall objective was to continue Bank's support to an effective financial
intermediary - and the main instrument in Rwanda for developing the private sector - to help it
continue providing term financing to well-conceived investment projects. More specifically the
project objectives were to:
(a)   support BRD lending ability as the institution was moving more forcefully into the areas
of SSE and agricultural lending;
(b)   improve BRD capability for economic evaluation of projects;
(c)   provide the needed foreign exchange resources for priority investments by private
entrepreneurs;
(d)   help improve the policy framework for SSEs; and
(e)   assist the Government in its review of Rwanda's import tariffs system.
3.2         Under the project and for the first time, IDA specifically targeted the development of
small scale enterprises (SSEs) and allocated US$4 million of the $9 million Credit to their
development. Although BRD had been financing SSEs and had developed a small, highly selected
SSEs loan portfolio, secured by its own guarantee fund backed by a KfW line of credit, it was
concluded that BRD should further diversify its lending operations away from medium-large
borrowers and spread its risk coverage over a wider sector spectrum. Moreover, SSEs were shown
to account for an estimated 60 percent of industrial value-added, and 65 percent of employment
generated (i.e., 26,000 workers), and it was concluded that they deserved greater support to help
solve Rwanda's pressing employment problems.
3.3         To expand its SSE lending operations, BRD was implementing a two-phase program.
In the first phase, which had been supported under the Third IDA project, emphasis was placed on
processing a large backlog of SSE applications which were not investigated in the past and in adapting
BRD loan processing procedures and organizational structure to facilitate SSE lending. Application
forms, appraisal reports and loan contracts for SSE lending were thus considerably simplified and a
specific Division in charge of SSE lending was created. Supervision of SSE projects was reinforced.
BRD also increased its lending limit to 80 percent of total project costs for SSEs (as compared with
50-65 percent for medium-sized and larger enterprises), and established its own guarantee fund in
1982 (para 3.2 above).
3.4         Expanded BRD lending for SSEs thus became a major objective of the Fourth IDA
Credit to BRD. Diversification of BRD lending was considered essential to pursue broad objectives
of fairness and economic growth, providing increased opportunity to indigenous entrepreneurs. It
was considered that more experience in the sector would lead to improved repayment performance
through better criteria for selecting projects and promoters. Second, streamlined loan processing
procedures for SSEs would hold down administrative costs. Third, an increase in BRD lending rates



would help improve its average spread and profitability. Fourth, access by BRD to a government
loan guarantee scheme which would complement its own (para 3.2) would help minimize the financial
impact of bad SSE loans.
4. Adequacy of Project Preparation.
4.1        A Bank mission to BRD in December of 1984 found that the Third IDA Credit (Cr.
1344-RW), which represented the bulk of BRD's resources, had already been 46% committed and
full commitment was expected by the third quarter of 1985. The mission reported that the
Government and BRD's management were eager to avoid a hiatus in BRD's resources and
recommended a prompt appraisal of BRD IV, which took place in February of 1985.
4.2        As a repeat operation of an ongoing and increasingly successful DFC which had the
monopoly for medium and long-term lending, no change to the status quo, with BRD as sole
intermediary of IDA funds for private enterprise financing was envisaged. During preparation and
appraisal, the main concerns were to improve the overall policy framework for SSEs and to ensure
BRD's solvency.
4.3        An SSE study financed by IDA under BRD III recommended several actions to ease the
constraints to SSEs' growth, namely: improvement of operation of the Special Guarantee Fund,
simplification of administrative procedures for establishing new enterprises and elaboration of a
special Investment Code for SSEs. These positive measures were adopted under the project and while
in theory they could contribute somehow to SSEs' development, experience has shown that they can
hardly be effective unless the overall policy framework is sound and is conducive to competition with
equal opportunities for all economic operators. While the appraisal pointed out to distortions in the
economy, like overvaluation of the exchange rate, high effective protection and import restriction,
a solution to these problems was considered to be dealt with more appropriately under a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) operation which the Government had already requested. Unfortunately, the
reform program was slow in being agreed and implemented even in the face of a serious economic
decline since 1986 (para 2.7).
4.4        At appraisal, it was considered that although the overall quality of BRD's portfolio was
good and adequate provisions had been set aside for probable losses from doubtful investments,
BRD's collection performance had not improved adequately. Even though high by development bank
standards, in 1984, only 89 percent of principal billed was collected. If the collection ratio would
remain at that level, arrears were bound to increase at a time when BRD was reorienting its lending
activities towards SSEs, a sector with potentially difficult collection problems. A major objective of
the project was therefore to assist BRD in improving its arrears position. This objective was pursued
with a covenant in the Project Agreement that BRD would ensure that the collection ratio, defined
as the ratio of amounts collected to amounts fallen due in a given year, would reach 95% in 1985,
100% in 1986, 102% in 1987 and 105% in 1988 and thereafter, and that performance to achieve
these ratios was to be closely monitored by the Bank.
4.5        Since the average cost of funds for BRD was expected to increase from 7 to 8 percent,
the Bank proposed, and it was agreed, that BRD's lending rates would also increase to 12.5% for
"productive" sectors and to 13.5% for services, thus ensuring an adequate spread of 5% to BRD.
BRD notes in Part II of this Report that 7% is more adequate margin for a development bank.



- 6 -
4.6         As it was evident that local enterprises operated under a high level of effective
protection, it was agreed under the project that an economic rate of return of no less than 10% was
required for medium to large size subprojects to be financed under the line of Credit, thus avoiding
the prospects of financing inefficient enterprises that would not stand competition under a more liberal
trade regime.
4.7         The project did not address the legal and regulatory constraints faced by commercial
banks and BRD in the legal recovery of delinquent loans, but instead focused on strengthening the
Government controlled Special Guarantee Fund (SGF). In the Rwandese court system, loan recovery
by legal means and, generally, the reinforcement of contractual obligations were systematically
delayed and obstructed. These legal constraints prompted BRD, and commercial banks in particular,
to impose stiff loan security requirements which most SSE borrowers could hardly satisfy. As a
result, and in order to promote SSEs, IDA project preparation targeted the Government-run SGF to
alleviate the guarantee problems faced by banks in financing SSEs. Issues of a guarantee fund
managed by Government officials were not raised, nor were the operational and legal procedures of
the fund properly and sufficiently addressed and analyzed. The SGF operational deficiencies had a
larger effect on the commercial banks' behavior and their reluctance to lend to SSEs. BRD, on the
other hand, had created in 1982 its own Guarantee Fund for SSEs (para 3.2), covering 80% of
principal defaults. With SSEs risks adequately covered by its own Fund, BRD also justified its own
view that no additional increase to the interest rate charged to SSEs was necessary for that purpose.
4.8         The need for sufficient interest margins to compensate banks and BRD for the higher
administrative costs in SSE lending was not adequately addressed. Although IDA did insist on an
increase in BRD's lending rates, it settled for less than required upon the Government's insistence.
The only financial sector issue addressed was in the context of reviewing BRD's interest rate levels.
No general approach to financial sector policies was undertaken. Likewise, the looming consequences
on BRD's portfolio, when local manufacturing industries are subjected to external competitive
pressures through import liberalization and tariff reduction, were neither addressed during project
preparation. Institutional development and other financial issues faced by BRD were, on the other
hand, well covered, and assumptions for projections reliably established.
4.9         With the forecast improvement of the collection ratio and the assurance of an adequate
spread, it was considered that adequate measures had been taken to ensure BRD's profitability and
stability. Moreover, BRD's management had performed quite well under the previous projects and
its continuity gave all reasons to believe that BRD's prudent policies of the past would continue.
BRD's Board composition, which included pro-active external donors, provided further confidence
in the institution's maintaining its performance record. Finally, at the time of appraisal, while the
country's economy was facing difficulties, foreign exchange reserves were still adequate, the
Government had earned a good reputation among donors for its conservative but forward looking
development policies. The Bank, unable to predict the steep economic decline that ensued in 1986
and thereafter, had reasons to believe that the good performance of previous BRD projects would be
once more repeated.



-7-
5. Project Implementation
5.1         The evolution of BRD lending operations is shown in Annex 7a. Approvals of new
loans remained at the predicted levels in 1985 and 1986, around FRW 600 million a year, but
increased significantly in 1987 to FRW 900 million and reached an all-time, unusual high level of
FRW 1,724 million during 1988 while BRD's operational forecast for that year was only of FRW
740 million. About a third of the FRW 1,724 million of approvals in 1988 represented not the
financing of new projects but either payment, on behalf of BRD customers, of suppliers' credits
guaranteed by BRD (FRW 194 million) or extension of ongoing projects (FRW 442 million). But
even taking this into account, new lending by BRD in 1988 was close to FRW 1,100 million, an
unusually high figure. This high level was due to strong pressure from the Government to use BRD
lending to counter the effects of the economic recession. Facing adverse trends, the Government
turned to BRD rather than launching a program of economic reforms that would have, in fact,
improved the business climate and promoted investments. BRD's management was unable to maintain
the institution's autonomy and went ahead supporting doubtful projects that it would most likely have
rejected under normal circumstances.
5.2         Disbursements followed a similar pattern and, as Credit 1650-RW  was temporarily
suspended (see para 5.4), BRD exhausted its available resources to finance such high level of lending.
To make up for the short fall, BRD borrowed short-term in the local market, and mainly from BNR,
to lend long-term, thus creating a potentially serious problem (para 5.6). The consequence of these
developments, aggravated by the economic recession and the civil strife, was a severe financial crisis.
BRD had to contract its lending which decreased to FRW 570 millon in 1989, FRW 220 million in
1990 and an all-time low of FRW 147 million in 1991.
5.3         The 1988 peak in lending reflects the large number of loans approved by BRD in that
year, 126, as compared with only 50 in 1987, an increase of 152%. Lending for SSEs, an objective
pursued by the Bank and strongly reinforced that year by the Government, was responsible for the
increase in terms of number of new operations, 106, although in amounts they represented only 17%
of total lending. While this attention to SSEs corresponded largely to the objectives of support to
indigenous small entrepreneurs and to diversification in terms of activities and location, it surely had
a diminishing impact on BRD's capacity to handle its supervision and collection efforts in general and
particularly of its large size customers at a time when firms in general were facing adverse economic
conditions. As it could be expected in any lending institution, quality control and overall management
of BRD deteriorated considerably as the volume of operations increased so dramatically in a relatively
short period. The Bank went along in this behavior, approving financing for a large number of small
and large subloans. A supervision mission which visited BRD in mid-1988 noted the large expansion
of BRD's lending but did not find any reason to be alarmed. The only problem mentioned was the
lack of funds for new commitments. The next Bank mission which visited BRD in mid-1989 could
already find clear signs of deterioration of BRD's portfolio and profitability. By then, it was too late
to arrest the serious negative impact on BRD's finances and general outlook.
5.4         Commitment of Credit 1650-RW started only in late 1987 and accelerated in the second
half of 1988 after the Bank lifted a suspension of commitments which extended from February to July
of that year (see para 5.6). The agreed closing date for commitments, end-December 1988, was
extended first to end-1989 and ultimately to end June 1990, by which date the Credit was fully



- 8 -
committed. The Credit financed 11 large and medium size enterprises for loans totalling SDR 4.9
million and 78 SSEs for a total of SDR 2.1 million. Annexes 9a, and 9b provide data and analysis
of subprojects financed under Credit 1650-RW.2 As distortions in the economy became more
pronounced during the implementation of BRD IV, the objective of strengthening BRD's capacity to
perform economic evaluation of projects could hardly be achieved.
5.5         Credit disbursements were very slow in 1987 and 1988 but accelerated in 1989, 1990
and 1991. As of the date of this PCR, SDR 4.6 million have been disbursed for the large and medium
size projects (around SDR 300,000 committed were cancelled at BRD's request). Only SDR 1,4
million have been disbursed for the SSE projects. BRD has been requested to examine all SSEs
accounts and make a final request for disbursements. It appears that many approved SSE projects,
particularly small farming and livestock projects were severely affected or were literally wiped out
by the civil war.
5.6         Under BRD IV, BRD agreed to review the level and structure of rates at least once a
year to ensure that they remain positive in real terms. Two interest rates were set: for "productive"
sectors (12.5%) and for services (13.5%). In July 1987, as the rate of inflation fell below 5%, the
Government, which had always wanted to use interest rates as instrument to encourage private
investments, decreed a reduction of the maximum interest rates to 9% for priority sectors and 9-12%
for other sectors. After consultation with IDA, BRD reduced interest rates for projects financed under
Credit 1650-RW to 9% and the onlending rate to BRD was also reduced to 5%. However, BRD also
reduced interest rates unilaterally on 13 subloans financed under BRD III (Cr.1344-RW) without
IDA's consent, and as a result, IDA suspended new commitments under Credit 1650-RW. BRD's
management was caught between its legal commitment to the Bank and the imminent risk of loosing
some of its best customers to the newly created competition from other local banks (see next
paragraph) who could refinance existing loans with lower rates. The suspension was lifted in July
1988, after the Government and BRD agreed with IDA on a number of steps that would ensure that
the change in interest rates would not affect BRD's profitability. These included a requirement that
BRD amend the credit agreements with clients benefitting from the reduced interest rates to enable
BRD to increase interest rates if lending rates increase in the future. Since the suspension took place
when the Credit resources were badly needed, BRD's management should probably have acted more
forcefully to bring all parties to an agreement while withholding fresh loans until the matter was
solved.
5.7         Along with the reduction of interest rates, the Government de facto did away with
BRD's monopoly of term financing. Measures of "despecialization" allowed commercial banks to
compete for that business, with the advantage of being able to be flexible in lending rates charged
and to provide customers with services for foreign trade and short-term transactions, leaving BRD
at a clear disadvantage. While the liberalization of the financial sector should be considered a
positive measure, it was carried out without giving BRD the chance to prepare to face the new
competition, a situation which prevails today. As the framework under which the BRD IV had been
appraised had radically changed, the Bank should have also reconsidered the viability of this project
in the new environment, and restructured it accordingly.
2    A total of 90 projects for SDR 2.5 million were approved, but 12 did not materialize because
the promoter withdrew before or after BRD loan signing.



5.8         Although BRD had generally avoided many of the problems that have plagued
development banks in other countries, it now faces a number of such problems. As BRD doubled
its lending in one year, and because a number of the projects approved were of questionable viability,
BRD external donors (including IDA) declined to finance several of them. BRD resource position was
not geared for such large volumes of lending as the institution was unable, on such short notice, to
mobilize the required resources. This put additional strains on its available financial resources,
prompting the institution to seek revolving and substantial short-term bridge funding from BNR, the
central bank, to cover medium- and long-term lending commitments. In order to avoid the damaging
consequences of further mismatch of lending and borrowing, and due to resource constraints the
following years, BRD had to substantially curtail its lending activities. It was too late, however, to
limit the expected damage both to the portfolio and financial situation of BRD.
5.9         Moreover, BRD loan portfolio is highly concentrated by sector and geographic location.
Large industrial borrowers in the area of Kigali, the capital, and some seven enterprises account for
over 50 percent, and 40 percent of loans outstanding, respectively. Although BRD policy statement
limits individual financial risk exposure to a maximum 20 percent of its unimpaired equity, to 70%
of total project costs in the case of SSEs, and to 60% and 50% for large and medium projects
respectively, such concentration in few borrowers is detrimental in the long run.
6. Project Results
6.1         Annexes 7a, 7b, 7c, 7d and 7e detail BRD projected and actual financial operations
during 1985-92. Actual financial performance was below expectations. The 1988 commitments, the
economic downturn after 1986, aggravated in 1989, as well as the civil strife that started in 1990,
could not be anticipated by the appraisal mission. Commitments and disbursements exceeded
projections by 38 and 112 percent, respectively, in 1988. Provisions for risks of losses, net earnings
and equity requirements were also underestimated but the lags were within acceptable and manageable
bounds. The key aspects of its performance are highlighted below:
(a)  Portfolio performance: As import substituting industries account for 40 percent of
the portfolio, BRD vulnerability to the slightest economic downturn is evident.
Lending for a large number of risky SSE borrowers exacerbated the declining
performance of the loan portfolio as collections plummeted sharply because of the
worsening economic situation and the war. Overall loan collections in principal and
interest fell to a low 58 percent in 1989, but improved thereafter, while remaining
below the agreed minimum target of 100 percent (Annex 8b). The non-performing
portfolio increased substantially as a percentage of total loan portfolio. Overall loan
collection rates have dropped to dangerously low levels when contentious loans are
taken into account.3 The loan portfolio, and collection problems faced by BRD, and
to a lesser degree commercial banks, also find their roots in administrative and legal
3    BRD's loan classification system relegates contentious loans, which have fallen due 100%, to
a separate category thus underestimating non-performing loans.



- 10 -
constraints faced by all institutional lenders.4
(b)  Profitability:  The need to constitute additional loan loss provisions led BRD to
declare steep operating losses of RwF 300 million (US$2.3 million) and RwF66.3
million ($510,000) in 1990 and 1991, respectively - the first losses in its history. In
1992 BRD seemed to have overcomed its difficulties with increased operating
revenue (up 13 percent), lower cost of borrowing (down 47 percent) and a modest
profit of RwF23 million, after RwF470 million in allocations to provisions compared
to RwF370 million for 1991. BRD's auditors consider, however, that additional
provisions of RWF 88 million should be made. It is likely that further operating
losses will be incurred owing both to lower operational revenues, higher allocations
to provisions for risks, and maintenance of the same staff and administrative levels
of expenses.
(c)  Capital structure:  Low collections and sharp increase in disbursements led to a
serious liquidity squeeze during 1988-90. In 1991/92, BRD was forced to a capital
increase of RwF364 million ($2.8 million) to offset the cumulated losses, maintain
an adequate equity level, diversify activities and establish a commercial service. As
a condition of the capital increase, BRD's Board introduced some restructuring and
cost reducing measures, and mandated a slow-down of approvals and a focus on loan
recovery activities. As a result, liquidity loan improved dramatically and BRD was
able to fully reimburse BNR's short-term advances contracted in 1988. BRD capital
base is relatively strong by regional standards, and its capital risk coverage ratio also
relatively high. However, at current levels of loan collection these are inadequate.
6.2          BRD most pressing challenge stems from a traditional client base - 42 percent of
which are import substitution industries -- that is threatened by the recession and the adjustment
program. The financial sector reforms introduced progressively since 1987 to regulate banks and
eliminate directed credit policies in Rwanda have also subjected BRD to greater competition from the
commercial banks, for the first time, particularly in medium-term loans to "blue chip" companies.
Consequently, BRD needs to undertake a radical review of its traditional vocation as a development
bank, probably to diversify its lending activities, in order to provide new commercial banking
services and short-term lending to its current customer base.
6.3         Performance under the Fourth Credit must be analyzed, taking into account that BRD
management had little control over the many economic and political developments adversely affecting
its lending operations and portfolio. IDA did not insist on ensuring that BRD retain a degree of
freedom during the steep lending increase of 1988, although IDA and other donor agencies did use
their leverage to refuse refinancing risky lending operations. Moreover, IDA did not anticipate the
above problems and lay down a consistent and coherent strategy to face up to the looming challenges
brought about, inter alia, by the adjustment process, including reforms of monetary and credit
policies, tariff liberalization, etc. Action was taken only in the course of appraisal and negotiations
4    SSE loans are guaranteed under Guarantee Fund and BRD should recover its losses once legal
problems are solved.



- I1 -
of the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (para 8.3) and first Apex line of credit channelled through
BNR, the central bank, to the entire banking system (para 8.4).
6.4         The adverse effects of economic recession and civil strife do not allow a proper analysis
of the evolution of SSEs in the economy of Rwanda and whether the project had a significant impact
in their support and well-being. Despite the problems encountered by SSEs during recent years, 250
SSE projects financed by BRD remained active at the end of 1992, constituting 11% of BRD's
portfolio. BRD's management deserves all the credit for this achievement as the Bank did not direct
its supervision efforts towards SSEs improvement.
7. Project sustainability
7.1         BRD's management should be praised for its resilience during recent years, when the
economy of Rwanda seriously deteriorated and life in general was severely disrupted by civil strife.
Due to its efforts, in 1991 BRD's shareholders ratified their support to the institution by subscribing
a capital increase of FRW 364 million. The capital increase and successful efforts in 1992 to collect
FRW 209 million in arrears from its delinquent borrowers, have averted any fears of BRD's
insolvency. On the contrary, the equity injection tied to the reduction of disbursements following a
retrenchment of commitments in 1990 and 1991 and the lack of suitable new projects, have
significantly improved BRD's short-term liquidity.
7.2         However, BRD's future is unclear: the changes operated in the economy after measures
of liberalization were enacted, affected BRD's competitive position in the banking sector. In order
to assist the Government and BRD's management to draw a plan for BRD's future, a detailed
independent special audit of BRD's portfolio was undertaken in November 1992, by a team of three
experienced, professional consultant bankers hired by IDA, with financing from a Japanese grant. The
consultants concluded that, at the end of 1992, BRD's portfolio was underprovisioned by RWF 488
million. In order for BRD to be sustainable and profitable with a loan portfolio reduced by 40% after
these additional provisions were taken into account, the consultants further recommended drastic
rationalization measures, inter alia, a substantial reduction of personnel, closure of branches,
streamlining of management; and an increase in the spread from 6.5 to 7%. The Government would
also be asked to maintain, for at least another five years, the income tax exemption already granted
to BRD.
7.3         The Government has agreed to the restructuring plan and its implementation would
make BRD eligible to draw funds from the Apex Credit (para 8.4). BRD's management considers
that under the conservative approach of this plan, BRD would possibly be able to maintain a share,
albeit much reduced, of Rwanda's term financing market but its long-term prospects and sustainability
would be questionable: facing stiff competition for the most profitable medium and large size
projects, to which BRD's competitors can offer a wide range of services, BRD could be left with a
portfolio constituted largely by SSEs with high risks and administrative costs. The feasibility of
diversifying BRD's activities and undertaking the services of a commercial bank, as proposed by
BRD's management, has yet to be studied. It is urgent that such study be carried out to allow BRD's
shareholders to decide on the future strategy and action plan to be followed by the institution. The
strategy study should consider, among other, options for BRD's full privatization and/or merger with
a local or foreign commercial bank.



- 12 -
7.4     As the financial system of Rwanda moves further towards market mechanisms and away
from direct controls, as appropriate regulatory framework will be necessary to identify troubled
institutions at an early stage as well as to create an environment conducive to greater competition
between institutions. A program of reforms of the regulatory and legal framework is underway under
the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Program (para 2.7). The BNR has already begun changing
the regulations on provisioning, setting clear guidelines on when and how much to provision and
when and how to deal with interest accrual on non-performing financial institutions, and will spell
out the policy instruments that will enable BNR to conduct monetary policy, including the rediscount
of long-term credit. The revised legislation will include provisions for BNR to have a clear mandate
over the regulation and supervision of financial institutions as well as to set appropriate capital levels.
Risk exposure limits will be set to limit a bank's exposure to a single party or group. New
regulations will clarify the treatment of non-performing loans. In addition, external audits of all
financial institutions will be required every year.
8. Bank's Performance
8.1         As a repeat project for a successful DFC, Bank appraisal of the project was carried out
correctly. Appropriate measures were introduced to improve the overall framework for SSE's
development in Rwanda which was a major project objective. Measures to ensure BRDs' financial
performance and stability were also incorporated in the project design. If in a narrow sense the
Bank's performance could be considered acceptable, the opportunity for raising important
macroeconomic policy issues, like distortions of the exchange rate and in the import tariffs system,
was not forcefully pursued by the Bank. In that respect, it should be mentioned that at the time of
appraisal the economy of Rwanda had experienced some recovery. In 1984 the balance of payments
registered a surplus, gross foreign exchange reserves were equivalent to 5 months of imports and the
debt service burden was negligible. Inflation remained moderate, about 6%. It was estimated that
GDP grew between 3.5% to 4% and the prospects for 1985 were favorable as the coffee harvest
looked promising. It would be fair to assume that, in view of the positive economic outlook, the Bank
did not feel it was urgent to condition the BRD IV project to the adoption of radical economic
measures.
8.2         Supervision of the project was adequate in 1986, but no supervision mission visited
BRD in 1987, the year of the Bank's reorganization. The first supervision after this hiatus, in mid-
1988, concentrated its effort in solving the problem that led to the suspension of commitments (para
5.6) and was unable to detect the dangers involved in BRD's accelerated lending expansion. In fact,
in September 1988, the Bank gave its approval to the financing of several medium, large and SSE
subprojects under Cr. 1650-RW. The Bank did voice its concern to BRD management and the
Government in 1989, but by that time BRD's performance had started to deteriorate. Because of its
concerns about serious distortions in the economy and the recession already in place, the Bank refused
to consider a Fifth BRD project which BRD and the Government had requested. As a compromise,
and in order to alleviate the critical resource situation of BRD, the Bank extended twice the deadline
for commitments under the credit.
8.3         The Bank's refusal to consider a fifth line of credit for BRD did not imply that the
objectives pursued in the four BRD projects were abandoned, but a clear realization that BRD's
problems could not be dealt with in isolation, without addressing basic issues affecting the economy
in general and the financial sector in particular. Following that strategy, the Bank, in cooperation



- 13 -
with the IMF, assisted the Government in the preparation of a Structural Adjustment Program whose
implementation started in 1991 (para 2.7). Furthermore, the Bank carried out a Financial Sector
Review (Report N# 8934-RW) which laid the basis for an adjustment Program for the Financial
Sector. In this Program measures were designed to strengthen BRD, inter alia, BRD's capital
increase, rescheduling of BRD's debt to BNR and the preparation of a detailed five-year plan for
BRD to diversify its activities and improve the quality of its portfolio. The plan has been partially
implemented, allowing BRD to somehow consolidate its financial position.
8.4         More recently, an IDA financed Private Sector Development Project in Rwanda was
approved in September 1993. The Project includes a US$7 million Apex line of credit that the Central
Bank would onlend to qualified Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFI) to finance productive
investments. As part of the Project the Government has agreed on a Plan of Action to restructure the
operational and managerial organization of BRD to reduce costs, increase accountability and improve
efficiency. The Plan also envisages measures concerning risk management and provisions, budgeting
control and programming. Implementation of the Plan would allow BRD to qualify as PFI for the
US$7 million Apex line of credit included in the project.
9. Borrowers' Performance
9.1         Borrowers' performance has been mixed. The Government and BRD's management
strayed away briefly in 1987 and 1988 from the prudent, rather conservative practices that
characterized BRD's behavior since its creation and had gained widespread support to BRD from
bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, including the Bank. This deviation from past practices came
about as pressure grew from Government to accelerate the promotion of nationals in business. The
Government's attitude at that time is understandable as it wanted to count on BRD's financing to
pursue more vigorously the promotion of indigenous enterprises and, at the same time, counteract
the effects of the economic recession. BRD reluctantly, and under pressure, went along financing
a large number of risky or unsound projects, large, medium and small, many of which it would have
refused to support under normal circumstances. As the economic recession intensified in the ensuing
years, the policy followed in 1987 and 1988 proved to have had serious negative effects on BRDs'
finances and future prospects.
9.2         While measures adopted by the Government in 1987 to liberalize the financial sector
constituted a positive step, no parallel action was considered to allow BRD to face the new
competition by the private banks, better equipped with their services and flexibility to attract good
customers away from BRD.
9.3         Since 1989, BRD's management performance has substantially improved. Dictated by
the economic crisis and its own financial limitations, a prudent lending policy has been followed.
At the same time, efforts in supervision and collections have been reinforced, with good results.
Despite the disruption caused by the armed conflict, BRD has maintained sound administrative and
personnel practices, which is very commendable. The challenge for the Government and the
institution is now to face its structural problems and adopt the tough measures necessary for BRD's
future survival and progress.



- 14 -
10.     Lessons Learned and Action Taken
10.1.      In intermediation projects, when Bank funds are loaned to private sector enterprises
through local financial institutions, if serious distortions prevail in the economy (i.e. overvalued
exchange rate, highly protective import barriers, subsidies), an enterprise benefiting from the project
may obtain financial gains which would most likely not represent economic gains for the country.
The introduction in project evaluation of an economic rate of return calculation as a means for
overcoming those distortions has not proven to be an adequate solution. That has been the experience
in this type of project in many countries and it was repeated in the BRD IV project. Either the
analysis becomes overly complex or changes in the pattern and level of distortions render the
evaluation meaningless. Therefore, in the absence of an effective program of economic reforms,
support for intermediation projects should be delayed until distortions are corrected and market prices
become a fair representation of the cost of production factors.
10.2.      BRD IV was one of the last "DFC type" projects carried out by the Bank in Sub-
Saharan Africa. The suggestions made by BRD in Part II, para. 3.7 (c) on ways to improve BRD
World Bank cooperation have been taken into account in the follow-up operation, i.e. Private Sector
Credit. In the mid-80s, as many countries in the Region engaged in a process of structural
adjustment to reverse economic decline, new market conditions became adverse for DFCs as their
main customers, import substitution industries, were seriously affected by liberalization of imports.
As liberalization measures reached also the financial and banking sector, the single DFC approach
to channel IDA funds for term lending to private entrepreneurs also became obsolete. Such objective
is pursued now through lines of credits for term financing made available, usually through the Central
Bank, to all eligible financial institutions. Survival of existing DFCs in the new environment is by
no means assured. For that, they are required not only to streamline and cut operating costs but also
to diversify their services, a strategy more likely to succeed under privatization.
10.3.      In the late 1980s, it became clear that BRD's problems could not be dealt with in
isolation without addressing macroeconomic issues in general, as well as financial sector issues. To
that effect, the Government embarked since 1991 on an economic reform program which was
designed with the assistance of the Bank and the IMF. Furthermore, in 1991, the Bank carried out
a Financial Sector Review which provided the basis to design a program of adjustment for the
Financial Sector, including provisions to address BRD's more immediate financial problems (para
8.3). More recently, an IDA financed Private Sector Development Project, approved by the Board
in September 1993, includes a plan to rationalize BRD in order to cut operational costs, increase its
efficiency and make it eligible for the Apex line of credit included in that project (para 8.4). Beyond
these measures, a corporate strategy needs to be designed to address BRD's long-term sustainability.
The feasibility of BRD's privatization should be seriously considered.



- 15 -
PART IT: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.      INTRODUCTION
The World Bank's partnership with BRD is becoming something of a tradition, the latter
now having received four IDA lines of credit. The purpose of this fourth line of credit, which is the
subject of this project completion report, was to finance enterprises in the productive and service
sectors. The credit package totaled SDR 8.5 million, SDR 4.7 million of which was for large and
medium size enterprises and SDR 3.8 million for small-scale enterprises (SSEs).
Since BRD has already received the project review from the World Bank's perspective and
is in full agreement with the analysis made, we shall attempt to avoid repetition when addressing an
aspect not already touched on by the Bank, namely the assessment of the project's impact on the
country's development, and in our response to the issues raised by the Bank. We shall follow the
guidelines provided to us in point 2, which are as follows:
(a)     Confirm the adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in Part III of the
PCR.
(b)     Comment on the analysis presented in Part I of the PCR.
(c)     Evaluate the Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project,
with special emphasis on lessons learned that can be relevant for the future.
(d)     Evaluate the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future.
(e)     Assess the effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the
evolution and implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that
may be relevant for the future.
(f)     Evaluate the performance of cofinanciers, and assess the effectiveness of their relationship
with the Borrower during the evolution and implementation of the project.
It must be remembered, when considering the comment and evaluations that follow,
particularly with respect to (b) above, that BRD agrees with the various points in the analysis
contained in Part I and does not wish to restate them for fear of getting into a tedious repetition of
what has already been described by the World Bank.



- 16 -
II.     ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT'S IMPACT ON THE COUNTRY'S DEVELOPMENT
2.1     Status of projects in general
2.2 Current status of interventions financed under the line of credit
The IDA IV line of credit has enabled BRD to finance 89 enterprises in all: 7 LSEs, 8
MSEs and 74 SSEs. Of all these projects, 30 are going well, 10 are in slight difficulty, 9 are in
serious difficulty but might recover, 18 are failing and 22 have disappeared, 9 for reasons attributable
to the war, and 13 as a result of poor management and market problems.
2.3     Value added
Among the projects financed under the IDA IV line of credit and for which financial
statements are available, value added generated in 1992 totaled RF 445,656,581 for a production of
RF 1,168,730,430, i.e. 38%. It should be pointed out that most of the small-scale projects do not
yet have reliable accounting systems.
2.4     Contribution to the production of goods and services to meet the needs of the population
- Agri-foodstuffs production
Thanks to the use of modern production methods (chemical fertilizer, plant protection
products, concentrated feed, drugs, artificial insemination, machinery, sophisticated equipment and
tools), agri-foodstuffs production has increased for such items as potatoes, milk, cheese, eggs, meat,
tea, pineapples, bananas, vegetables, etc.
- Industrial and crafts production
Thanks to this same line of credit, industrial and crafts production has increased. Mention
should be made of the contributions of industrial enterprises such as SORWATHE, ECOMIRWA,
SODEPARAL, SOBOLIRWA, ZEM INDUSTRIES, PACAREM, GATETE Polycarpe and
PROMETAL, and SOBAGEB, Claude Kampayana, COMECOMU, Theobald Mungwarakarama,
Josias Rubare, Frangois Xavier Gasana, Joseph Bavakure, Joseph Rugigana, Jacques Rusirare,
Elie Kanuma and Emmanuel Basimbizi in the crafts sector.
- Production of services
The IDA IV line of credit has also made it possible to increase the production of services.
Noteworthy contributions include hotel projects, boarding facilities for secondary school students,
medical offices, rural pharmacies and gas stations.



- 17 -
2.5      Creation of jobs
The impact of the line of credit is also measured by the number of jobs created.
Enterprises for which data are available for 1992 have a total payroll of 1,230, i.e. 94 per enterprise
on average, with a total wage bill of RF 97,588,137 or RF 7,506,780 per enterprise.
2.6     Savings of foreign exchange
Certain enterprises financed under the IDA IV line of credit have contributed to foreign
exchange savings, by fully or partially substituting imports (ECOMIRWA, SQBOLIRWA, ZEM
INDUSTRIES, PACAREM, PROMETAL, GATETE, SODEPARAL) or, better still, by bringing
foreign exchange into the country (SORWATHE).
2.7     Taxation
Given that most of the enterprises financed are still for tax exemption under the investment
code, it is not necessary to quantify this aspect. It should be recognized, however, that the Treasury
does collect revenues from such levies as the payroll tax [taxe professionnelle sur les salaires du
personnel des entreprises], import duty on raw materials, turnover tax and business tax [patente].
2.8     Special features of certain projects
2.9     Contribution to exports and to foreign exchange returns
Among the enterprises financed under this line, only SORWATHE is exporting officially.
The other enterprises whose products cross the frontier operate within the framework of border trade,
which does not involve the transfer of foreign exchange.
2.10    Import of raw materials and the outflows of foreign exchange
Certain enterprises financed under this same line of credit have made it possible to limit
foreign exchange outflows to the cost of raw materials in place of the cost of the finished products.
This is so in the case of ECOMIRWA, ZEM INDUSTRIES, PACAREM, GATETE Polycarpe and
PROMETAL.
III.    COMMENTS ON PART I OF THE PCR AND RESPONSES TO ISSUES RAISED BY
THE WORLD BANK. FOLLOWING THE GUIDELINES MENTIONED IN THE
INTRODUCTION
3.1     Confirm the adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in Part III of the
PCR
The statistical information contained in Part III is sufficient and accurate, with the exception
of the following:



- 18 -
a.      Annex 6
The capital structure at end 1992 is as follows:
(RF millions)     (as percentage)
Rwandese Public Sector:                       827.75               55
Government of Rwanda                          714.26               48.1
OCIR-CAFE                                      50.92                3.5
OCIR-THE                                        13.70               0.9
CAISSE SOCIALE DU RWANDA                       48.87                3.3
Rwandese Private Sector:                      155.66               i105
Commercial banks                               60.00                4.0
Other private investors                        95.66                6.5
Foreign Institutions:                         500.99               33.7
CCCE/CFD                                      135.71                9.1
DEG                                           133.68                9.0
FMO                                            96.00                6.5
Belgian Aid Agency                            126.67                8.5
Bank of Tokyo                                   8,93                0.6
TOTAL                                        1,484.40             100
b.      Annex 9a
The number of SSEs financed should be 78 rather than 74.
3.2     Comments on the analysis presented in Part I of the PCR
3.3     Evaluation summary
With reference to paragraph 6, "Viability" [sicl on page iii, BRD agrees with the World
Bank that the new operating strategy for BRD would be most likely to succeed if it were to be
privatized and if Government influence were reduced, but it is hardly necessary to remind you that
BRD is governed by a law specifying the distribution of its capital stock. Privatization would
therefore depend on the amendment of its governing legislation and action to redistribute its capital
stock.
BRD considers that the report should stress the rationalization effort, with projections for
the future, which will include plans for diversification and redeployment toward short-term services
(Commercial Services), in particular.



- 19 -
3.4     Part n: Project review from World Bank's perspective
With reference to paragraph 4.5, it should be pointed out that the estimated 5% spread is
well below the margin generally allowed development banks by the banking profession. The
minimum spread would be set at 7%.
With reference to paragraph 4.7, it should be mentioned that BRD's Guarantee Fund for
SSEs covers 80% of the risks (principal + interest) and not 100%.
With reference to paragraph 5.4, the number of SSEs financed is 78 rather than 94, the
loans totaling SDR 2.1 million instead of SDR 2.5 million.
We take this opportunity to mention that the financial statement dated September 30, 1993
gives the number of SSEs financed as 90, while BRD's records show only 78 SSEs. For the sake
of uniformity, the following should be taken into account:
SubDroject No.      Comment
SSE-30       Canceled on October 10, 1991
SSE-37       Promoter withdrew
SSE-52       Canceled on November 17, 1989
SSE-63       About to be canceled, if not already, because the contract was never
signed by the promoter
SSE-66       About to be canceled, if not already, because the project has not been
carried out
SSE-102      Promoter withdrew
SSE-106 and         These projects are not shown in the "draft report" at the end of the
SSE-107      fourth IDA line of credit but appear in your monthly statement of projects financed
under IDA IV at September 30, 1993. These projects should therefore be removed
from this monthly statement
SSE-108      Promoter withdrew
SSE-109      Idem
SSE-117      Canceled on October 10, 1991
SSE-133      Promoter withdrew
With reference to point 5.9, the figure of 70% of total project costs holds true only in the
case of SSEs, the normal limit on individual financial risk exposure in the case of large-medium
projects being 60% and 50%, respectively.
With reference to point 6.1(a), it is true that the worsening economic situation and the war
brought about a decline in recoveries and in loan portfolio performance, but given the fact that most
SSEs are covered by the FSG, BRD hopes to be able to recover its funds as soon as the legal dispute
with the FSG is settled.



- 20 -
With reference to point 6.1(b), BRD did not consider it necessary to make additional
provisions of RF 88 million at December 31, 1992, in view of the special situation of certain debts
and the guarantees furnished. There are plans, however, to increase the provisions in 1993, based
on a case-by-case assessment following the pertinent directives issued by the Board of Directors.
Adopting this strategy, provisions of around RF 300 million will be made at the end of 1993 (an
additional RE 110 million) with a projected profit of RF 62.8 million.
With reference to point 6.1(c), while it is true that the sixth capital increase was aimed at
maintaining an adequate equity level, it must be kept in mind that it was also aimed at diversifying
activities and at establishing a commercial service.
With reference to footnote 2 on page 10, the classification of loans as contentious does, of
course, mean that they have fallen due 100%, but such loans still generate interest until a judgment
is handed down.
With reference to point 7.2, additional provisions of RF 488 million would seem impossible
to justify given the fact that, thanks to the recovery effort undertaken to collect debts regarded as
uncollectible by the consultants, BRD currently has a liquidity of RF 1,115 million, which will
probably reach RF 1.3 million by end 1993.
3.5     Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project. with special
emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future
BRD recognizes the World Bank's efforts to bring the project to a successful conclusion;
it also recognizes that it was hard to predict the country's economic future and agrees with the
comment made in Part I of the PCR. It appreciated the facility offered by the opening of a special
account at BNR and the speed with which disbursements were made, in keeping with the terms of
the agreement.
BRD would like to see some relaxation in the 90-day rule requirement for the submission
of invoices for payment.
3.6     Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the proiect. with
special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future
BRD agrees with the Bank's comments and conclusions contained in Part I of the PCR.
It wishes to stress that at times when finances have been tight and the economic situation has been
tough, it has managed to overcome its difficulties, improve its financial situation enormously, and
recover its profitability despite the combination of the devastating consequences of the economic
downturn and the war of October 1990.
3.7      Effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the evolution
and implementation of the proaect. with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be
relevant for the future
The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was marked by a good climate of
cooperation conducive to the effective overcoming of any dispute or problem that might arise during



- 21 -
project implementation. Several meetings were held to exchange ideas. Nevertheless, there were two
instances when a strain was placed on this effective cooperation:
(a)     The incident of the lending rate and suspension of the fourth IDA line of credit
Following the Rwandese Government's decision, BRD had no choice but to lower the
interest rates on certain loans financed out of the third IDA line of credit. BRD was bound to comply
with this decision, a regrettable situation, since the suspension of the IDA IV line of credit should
have been the outcome of direct contact between the Government and the World Bank. BRD was
merely the victim of the decisions, which were beyond its control and resulted in a financial crisis.
(b)     Conseguence of "despecialization" of the banking sector
BRD is discovering that the way to handle the "despecialization" of the banking sector
decreed in 1987 is to diversify its activities and to establish a commercial service. Unfortunately,
some differences of opinion still remain concerning the conditions for establishing a commercial
service of this kind and these have so far made it impossible to carry out this project.
Speaking in general terms, there are three suggestions that might be made in order to
improve BRD-World Bank cooperation in the future:
1. BRD should negotiate a loan agreement on more concessional terms and scrupulously
comply with every single provision it contains.
2. The World Bank should, within the limits of the sectors previously approved for
intervention, allow more freedom of choice in terms of the selection of projects to be
financed.
3. The World Bank should simplify disbursement procedures, with particular attention to
the requirement to remit huge numbers of photocopies of various supporting
documents. Since the Bank is represented in Rwanda and conducts a fair number of
missions in our country, the existence at any time of a given project and the submission
of proof of disbursement by BRD should be sufficient.
3.8     Performance of cofinanciers and assessment of the effectiveness of their relationship with
the Borrower during the evolution and implementation of the project
The project covered by Credit 1650-RW did not have any cofinanciers.



-22-
Annex I
Page 1 of 1
PART mI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RW)
Related Bank Credits
Credit Title        Purpose                                                   Year of        Status
Approval
655-RW              Long-term finance for productive investments;             1976           96.9X disbursed and
strengthening of SRO's appraisal                                         cLosed.
capabilities.
896-RW              Funding for foreign exchange cost of                      1979           86.21 disbursed and
productive investments in Rwanda; staff                                  closed.
training and upgrading of appraisal capacity
for BRD; technicaL assistance to Government
for establishment of an auditing capacity in
Rwanda.
1344-RU             Fundfng for foreign exchange cost of                      1983           831 disbursed and closed.
productive investments in Rwanda; technical
assistance for development of small scale
antreprises, including pilot SSE financing;



-23-
Annex 2
RWANI)A
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJEC
(Cr. 1650RW)
Project Processing and Implementation Timetable
Item                               Planned              Revised               Actual
Preappraisal mission                                                           12/84
Appraisal Mission                  02/85                                       02/85
Credit Negotiations                09/85                10185                  10/85
Board Approval                      11/85               01/86                  01/86
Credit Signature                   02/86                01/86                  01/86
Credit Effectiveness               03/86                10/86                  10/86
Credit Closing                      12/93               12/93                  12/93
Credit Completion                  06/94                12/93                   TBD



-24-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RW)
Loan Disbursements
($ million)
Fiscal Year      Estimated         Actual           Actual as %       Actual as %
Cumulative       Cumulative        of Estimated      of IDA Standard
1987                      1.2                0            0.00%             0.00%
1988                       2               0.3           15.00%            12.82%
1989                      3.6             4.04          112.22%            89.78%
1990                      5.6              6.5          116.07%           103.17%
1991                      7.2              7.8          108.33%           100.78%
1992                      8.4             8.22           97.86%            97.16%
1993                        9*             8.34*           ERR              0.00%
* Note: As all IDA credits are nominated in SDR's, Credit 1650-RW total amount was SDR 8.5 million.
As of end December 1993, SDR 6,338 million have been disbursed. The undisbursed amount is SD
2,162 million.



-25-
Annex 4
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(Credits 1650-RW)
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Covenant                                              Status of Comgliance
1. BRD shall maintain (i) real positive interest     In compliance.
rates and (ii) a sufficient interest spread to
preserve its financial soundness.
2. BRD shall carry out the Project in accordance      In compliance
with its Statutes and Statement of Policy.
3. BRD shall furnish to the Association all such      In compliance.
information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of BRD.
4. BRD shall furnish to the Association audited       In compliance.
financial statements not later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year.
5. BRD's ratio of collection of loan repayments
in principal and interest to amounts falling due
and billed to borrowers, will progressively reach
and  be  maintained  above  100  percent,
specifically by reaching at least 95 percent in
1985, 100 percent in 1986, 102 percent in 1987,
and 105 percent in 1988 and thereafter.
6. The total amount of BRD's, and all of its          In compliance
Subsidiaries'consolidated debt shall not exceed
three times BRD's and all of its Subsidiaries
consolidated capital and surplus.
7. BRD  shall take steps satisfactory to the          In compliance.
Association as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the various
currencies (including Rwandese Francs) used in
its borrowing and lending operations.



-26-
Annex 5
RWANDA
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(Cr. 1650-RW)
Use of Bank Resources - Mission Data
Stage of                 Date       No. of      Days in      Specialization       Performance
Project Cycle            mo/yr      Persons     Field        Represented          Rating Status
Throgh A&raisal
Pre-appraisal            12/84        2           14         op. officer
economist
Appraisal                05/85        2
Supervision
Supervision              10/86        2           4          Op. officer                     1
Fin. analyst
Supervision              05/88        1            5         Industrial op. officer         2
Supervision              07/89        3           12         Sr. op. officer/op. officer    2
economist
Supervision              12/89        2           10         Sr. op. officers               2
Supervision              08/90        2           16         Sr. op. officers               3
Supervision              04/91        2           10         Sr. op. officer/consultant     2
Supervision              10/92        1           15         Sr. op. officer                2



-27-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
FOURTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RU)
BRD: Evolution of Share Capital Structure
(in percentages)
End 1984                       end-1992*
Total Share Capital (million RwF)
Shareholder:
Rwandese Public Sector:                                                  617.00      (55X)            827.75 (55.8)
Govermrent of Rwanda                                                                                714.26 (48.1)
OCIR-CAFE                                                                                            50.92  (3.5)
OCIR-THE                                                                                             13.70  (0.9)
Caisse Sociale du Rwanda                                                                            48.87  (3.)
Rwandese Private Sector:                                                 139.00      (12.5X)          155.66 (10.5)
Commercial banks                                                                                    60.00  (4.0)
Other private investors                                                                              95.66  (6.5)
Foreign Institutions:                                                    363.40      (32.5X)         500.99 (33.7)
CCCE/CFD                                                                                           135.71  (9.1)
DEG                                                                                                 133.68  (9.0)
FMO                                                                                                 96.00  (6.5)
Belgian Aid Agency                                                                                 126.67  (8.5)
Bank of Tokyo                                                                                         8.93  (0.6)
TOTAL                                                                  1,120.00        100         1,484.40   100



Annex 7a
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL LENDING OPERATIONS
(RwF million)
December 31                              1985                 1986                 1987                1988              1989      1990       1991       1992
Proj.    Actual     Proj    Actual       Mrj.    Actual      Pr       Actual      Actual   Actual   Actual        Actual
Approval
Loans                               660      575.0      690      616.4       720      899.7       740      1706.7      569.9      220        147.        625.6
Equity Investments                   40        5.0       45       20.0        50       40.0        55        16.8        6.0                 3.25
Total                              700      58410      735      636.4       770      939.7      795       1723.5      575.9     220         151         625.6
Commitments
Loans                               692      526.6      682      555.8       711      489.0       734      1088.8      722.4      306        381.        431.7
Equity Investments                   30        5.0        44      20.0        49       40.0        54         0.0       10.0      6.4         3.2          0.0
Total                              722     531.6       726      575.8       760      529.0      788       1088.8      732.4     313        384.         437.7
Disbursments
Loans                               546     432.2       687      317.8       696      77&4       722       1643.6      753.1     572         149.       426.5
Equity Investments                   30        2.5       44       20.0        49       20.0        54        0.0        10.0      6.4        3.2          0.0
Total                              576      434.7      731      337.8       745      7984       776       1643.6      763.1     579         152.       426.5
Source:           - Projected 1985-198& World Bank, BRD IV Project, Staff Appraisal Report, November 1985.
- Actuals 1985-1992: BRD audited reports except 1992 unaudited.



Annex 7b
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS
(RwF million)
December 31                         1985                   1986                  1987                   1988           1989      1990       1991      1992
Proj     Actual       Pro.      Actual       Pji       Actual     Ptroi      Actual    Actual  Actual    Actual    Actual
Income
Interest and Commissions       258       243         294        263         336       246         370        332      408       450        440       442
Dividends                       25        52          27         44          29        44           32        50       41         55         8         44
Other Income                    22        12          20        165          20         34          20        27       37          8       206       254
Total Income                 305       307          341       472         385        324         422        409     486        513        654       740
Cbarges
Administrative Expenses         79        79          86         91          92         99          98       127      120        134       161        161
of which: Personnel          (51)      (58)         (56)      (65)        (61)       (65)        (66)      (73)    (80)        (79)      (92)       (88)
Depreciation                    29        19          37         22          38        24          39         24       24        23         21        23
Provisions                     97        127          93        280         108        84         113         96      203       574        370       419
FinancialCCharges               73        70          84         78         100        76          118       119      127        142       168        114
Total Charges                278        295         300        471         338       283         368        366      474       873        720       717
Net Profit                       27         12          41          1          47        41          54         43       12      -360       -66         23
Sources:                Projected 1985- 198& World Bank, BRD IV Project, SaifYAppraisai Report. November 1985.
Actuais 1985-1992 BRD audited reports. except 1992 unaudited.



Annex 7c
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
PROJECTED AND ACIUAL SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(RwF million)
1985                 1986                 1987                 1988           1989      1990       1991      1992
Proj.    Actual      Proj.    Actual      P        Actual      Ptoj.    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual
Sources
Net Profit                            27       19          41        1          47       41          54       43         12      (299)       (66)       40
Depreciation                          29       19          37       22          38       24          39       24         24        23         21        13
Provisions                            97      127          93      280         108       84         113       96        203       574       370        140
KfW Investment Fund                   16       12          13       13          13       13          13       16         20        32         31         8
Loan Collections                     313      321         342      324         454      360         503      448        420       488        586       197
DrawdownonLoans                      287      337         405      150         510      659         400    2275        1172       359        270       115
Existing Borrowings              (287)    (337)       (215)    (150)        (110)    (202)       (100)   (905)      (490)      (231)     (270)      (115)           
New B3orrowings                   ()          )       (90)       (          (0X      (5          (00)   (17         (82)       (128)      (2         (2
Total                               769      835         931        0        1170     1181        1122    2902        1851      1177       1212       513
Uses
Loan Repayments                      236      235         273      384         268      235         274    1328         947       476        457       414
Loan and Equity Disbursements        576      441         731      328         745      795         776    1648         764       573        428       163
IncreaseinFixedAssets                 72      128          13       31          12       30          12       42         20        21          7        10
Transfcr to KfW Cuarantee Fund        10        -          10       10          11       30           10      10          -        25         24         -
Dividend Payments                     14        -          20        -          25        -           -        -          -         -          -         -
Increase(DEcrease)inNet            -139        31       -115        37         109       91          50    -126         120        82        296       -74
Currcnt Assets
Total                               769      835         932      790        1170    1181         1122    2902        1851      1177       1212       513
Sources:                      Projecded 1985-198& World Bank, BRD IV Project, Staff Appraisal Report, November 1985
Actuals 1985-1992: BRD staff estimalcaL



Annex 7d
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRt))
PROJECTED AND ACTIJAL BALANCE SHEETS
(RwF million)
1985                1986                 1987                 1988            1989        1990         1991       1992
Proj.    Actual     Proj.    Actual       Proj    Actual      Proj.    Actual      Actual     Actual       Actual      Actual
Assets
Current Assets                  266     427          148     274         261      434         381      390         391         524          933        1,535
Loan Portfolio                2,208    2,087       2,553    1,992       2,795    2,426       3,014    3,622      3,757       3,869         3,370      3,251
Equity Portfolio                365     608         409      639         458      679         512      675         675         687          690         689
Specific Provisions            (162)   (155)        (243)   (299)       (341)   (441)        (443)   (465)        (345)       (866)       (1,039)     (1,219)
Net FixedAsscts                 481      524         457      504        431      490         403      446         431         403          383         371
Total Assets                  3,158    3,491      3,324    3,110       3,604    3,588       3,867    4,668       4,909       4,617        4,337       4,627
Liabilities
Current Liabilities             283     293         281       69         284       87         354    1,051         959         797          515         185
Term Borrowings               1,361    1,412       1,493    1,251       1,735    1,668       1,861    1,680       1,991      2,154         2,219      2,431
Existing Borrowings         (1361)  (1.074)      (1303)  (1101)       (1145)  (1009)       (971)   (310)        (819)      (1795)       (1949)      (2098)
New Borrowings                (-)   (338)         (190)   (150)        (590)   (659)       (890)   (1370)       (1172)      (359)        (270)       (333)
Provision for General Risk       74       70          86      60          97       79         107      140         140         140          141         156
KfW Investment Fund              14       20          17       23          19       6          22        6          16          16           10          10
BNR Govt. Investment Fund        13       13          13       13          13      13          13       13          13          13           25          33
Sbare Capital                 1,120    1,120       1,120    1,120       1,120    1,120       1,120    1,120       1,120      1,120         1,120      1,484
Reserves& Retained Earnings    293      563         314      574         336      615         390      658         670        377           307         328
Total Liabilides                3,158    3,491       3,324    3,110      3,604    3,588       3,867    4,668       4,909       4,617        4,337       4,627
Sources:           Projected 1985-198& World Bank, BRD IV Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Noveniber 1985.
Actuals 1985-1992: BRD audited reports, except 1992 unaudited.



Annex 7e
BANOUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS
(RwP million)
1985              1986               1987               1988           1989         1990        1991          1992
Proj.  Actual     Proi.  Actual      Proj   Actual      Proj.  Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual
Income Statement Elemsents
as % of Averaige Total Assets
Total Income                     10.0      9.0      10.5    15.2       11.3      9.0      11.3     8.8         9.9         12.4         15.1          16.0
of which:
Interest & Comm. on Loans       8.4      7.0       9.1      8.5       9.9      6.9       9.9     7.1         8.3          9.8         10.2           9.6
Other Incom                     0.8      0.6       0.6      5.3       0.6      0,9       0.5     0.6         0.8          1.4         4.7            5.4
Dividends                       0.8      1.4       0.8      1.4       0.8      1.2      0.9      1.1         0.8          1.2         0.2            1.0
Total Charges                     9.1      8.5       9.2    15.1        9.7      7.9       9.8     7.8         9.7         18.9         16.6          15.5
of which:
Administrative Expenses         2.6      2.4       2.6      2.9       2.6      2.7       2.6     2.7         2.5          2.9          3.7           3.5
Interest                        2.4      2.0       2.6      2.5       2.9     2.1        3.2     2.6         2.6          3.1         3.9            2.5
Depreciation                    0.9      0.6       1.1      0.7       1.1     0.7        1.0     0.5         0.5         0.5          0S.            0.5
Provisions                      3.2      3.5       2.9      9.0       3.1      2.4       3.0     2.0         4.1         12.4         8.5            9.0
Net Profit                        0.9      0.5       1.3      0.1       1.6      1.1       1.5     1.0         0.2        (6.50)       (1.50)          0.5
Profitablity Indieators
Net Profit as % ofAvg. Equity     1.9      3.1       2.9      0.2       3.3      6.0       3.6     6.4         1.8       (43.50)       (9.60)          1.2
Income from Loans
as % of Avg. Loan Portfolio     12.3    12.6       12.4    13.2       12.6    10.1      12.7      9.2       10.9         11.6         13.1          13.6
Financial Expenses
as % of Avg. Loan Portfolio      3.5      3.4       3.5     3.9       3.7      3.1       4.1      3.3        3.4          3.7          5.0           3.5
Average Spread                    8.8      9.2       8.9      9.3       8.9      7.0       8.6      5.9        7.5          7.9          8.1          10.1
Cost of Debt as % of Avg. Debt    5.5       -        5.9       -        6.2      4.1       6.6     4.3         4.2          4.6         5.8             -
Average Margin                    6.8        -       6.5                6.4      6.0       6.1      4.9        6.7          7.0          7.3
Financial Structure Indicators
Term Debt/Year End Equity         1.0       -        1.0       -        1.2      0.9       1.2     0.9         1.1          1.5         1.8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       2.1       -        2.1       -        2.4       -        2.5      -           -            -           -              -
Sources:                   Projected 1985-198& World Bank. BRD IV Pojcet, Staff Appralml Report. November 1985.
ActuaIr 1985-1992: BRD audited reports, except 1992 unaudited.



Annex Ba
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPElMENT (BRD)
LOAN PORTFOLIO ARREARS ANALYSIS
(RwF million, asof December 31 1992)
Portfolio
Affected            Arrears of                       Afrea  of                       Afrears                        Arrears
Total       by                 3 months                        6 months                        of I year                     over 1 year
Sector               Portfolio    Arrears    Total    Principal    Interest   Total    Principal   Interest   Total    Principal  Interest   Total    Principal    Interest
Agriculture &
Livegock              324.0      117.7      28.4         21.3        7.1    14.5         11.1      3.4      24.3       17.9       6.4     84.3         67.4       16.9
Agro-Industry          534.9        61.0     52.8         14.2        38.6   24.2          6.4      17.8     36.5         9.4     27.1    159.9          31.0      12&9
Manufacturing &
Mining              2,121.5      220.4    112.3          50.7       61.6    44.9         19.9     25.0      62.5       30.3      32.2    213.9        119.5       94.4
HotelandTourism        147.3       24.2      19.3          8.9       10.4    4.4           1.3       3.1      6.1         1.2      4.9      27.2        12.8        14.4
Traasportatikn            5.5        0.5      0.7          0.5        0.2    0.0           0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0
Others                   2.5         2.5      0.0          0.0        0.0     0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0       3.1         2.5         0.6
Total              3,135.7      426.3    213.5         95.6       117.9   U8.0         38.7      49.3    129.4        58.8     70.6    48&4          2312       255.2
No. of Projects:                                          92.0       72.0                 94.0      79.0                  6.0     61.0                  162.0      103.0
Sources: BRD unaudited 1992 reportL



-34-
Annex 8b
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
EVOLUTION OF COLLECTION RATIOS
(1985-1992)
New Bilings                Collections                Collections
During Year               During Year                    Ratio
(RwF million)             (RwF million)                   (%)
* 1985                            481.9                      322.4                     66.9%
* 1986                            485.4                      413.5                     85.2%
* 1987                            3383                       3033                      89.7%
* 1988                            369.8                      321.0                     86.8%
** 1989                           960.1                      560.3                     58.4%
1990                          1,065.4                     716.3                     67.2%
1991                           900.3                      718.3                     79.8%
l 1992                            711.2                      586.2                     82.4%
Source: BRD
Available figures refer only to the Principal.
I* The figures represent the maturities and the reimbursements in principal and interests
due on regular and doubtful loans.



-35-
Annex 9a
RWANDA
FYOURTH RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
(Credit 1650-RW)
Characteristics of Subprojects Financed
Medium-size enterprise investment loans financed: 11 (out of 15 approved)
Small-scale enterprise investment loans financed: 78 (out of 134 approved).
Average above free limit loan: SDR 445,987
Average below free limit loan:
a) committed amount SDR 34,480
b) disbursed amount  SDR 19,776
New projects:                             68
of which:    Medium-scale enterprises   (9)
SSE                        (59)
Rehabilitation/Expansion projects         17
of which:    Medium scale enterprises   (2)
SSE                        (15)
Average loan by category:
SDR
Above free limit industry                541,963
Above free limit agriculture             250,661
Above free limit services                308,370
Below free limit industry                 54,014
Below free limit agriculture              18,379
Below free limit services                 51,796
Below free limit Public Works             92,463
Sectoral Distribution:
Industry/civil works                      23
of which:    Medium-scale enterprises   (7)
SSE                        (16)
Agriculture                               43
of which:  Medium-scale enterprises     (2)
SSE                        (41)
Services                                  19
of which:    Medium-scale enterprises   (2)
SSE                        (17)



-36-
Annex 9b
Page 1 of 1
SELECTED SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER
BRD IV (Credit 1650-RW)
ECOMIRWA: The company took over the shoe manufacturing and sale activities of BATA in
1985. Since its inception, the company has concentrated on import and distribution of all
kinds of footwear, but also manufactured rubber, plastic and leather-based sandals at its
factory at Gikondo-Kigali. Credit 1650-RW financed the equivalent of DTS 266,000 of
imported equipment and moulds and part of construction cost for the diversification of the
product line to include production of sports shoes (tennis and basketball) and leisure footwear.
The expansion created 52 new jobs. The company has performed very poorly and as of end
1992 it was in very poor financial shape.
SORWATHE: This subproject financed additional processing capacity and 100 ha. of the tea
plantation with a loan of DTS 313,920. SORWATHE exports all its production. Its
performance has been satisfactory and at end 1992 the enterprise was in good financial
standing.
SOBOLIRWA: Enterprise created in 1985 for the production of soft drinks under license
from PEPSI. Credit 1650-RW financed about DTS 1.4 million of imported equipment.
SOBOLIRWA has done very poorly not being able to compete with BRALIRWA which
covers almost completely the demand. Uncollected amount of BRD loan has been written off
100%.
PACAREM: Enterprise dedicated to printing, importation and distribution of paper products.
Credit 1650-RW financed its expansion with a subloan of DTS 554,391. PACAREM has not
done well and its financial situation is very precarious.
AHORUKOMEYE: Project for the construction and operation of a small hotel received a
subloan of DTS 398,000 of which only DTS 270,000 were disbursed.
GATETE: A project to manufacture electrodes de soudirre, received in 1989 a subloan of
DTS 294,000.
SODEPARAL: Dairy farm financed with a subloan of DTS 214,000.
NGIRABADUNZI: Livestock project for dairy financed with a subloan of SDR 195,000.
ZEM: An enterprise established in 1988 for the manufacturing of electrical wire. This
subproject was financed for SDR 690,000 under Credit 1650-RW and it appears to be
proceeding reasonably well.



- =        cnfloSCe  n a...-. mu..,. ,   U,
C = CCC - = 000. a-mO-Cr. 00cr 0
0CC Ce0r.c0C0  OCaCcO,  =
0. 0CCCCCin. CCC. -
a0a.cCCeCeCCCw-w - I
0-l a
e C-co 0.    OCco    'c,    -
0  - o -tC   = -  5C    = CCC  I   0
Cea r = en    - - C e. - a   = en -   9   -.
-   =   ..r.r. 4  -I    -
8 
-   Sn 3-esa    -  -n      --   en    I       *
-    -    -          -      a.        I
nnenenentnb'Inflen en - - - - - a-,
CCCCCCC,Cn **'.*.......*
eefl eel
-                   I
- = ----mm- - - nine ----- ---- m cI -
0000  . 005000000000000   -
ro a sacs a  roes a -a a a - a sasca -
tS..... a..! ft
an aa* a    a .b a   nai
*      a    o    5    0
a      a    a    a    a             a    I
-      -
----a jj I
0 CCOOC S- S - -
-cOSC eSefl. aaeinae a a -
CeCC CCaa0CC CS Oae-I
aec 0 aec e a - - I I in
*   I   I
-     -                           C
* a . .aa .I 
- 0.
-  -      I  S                      -
-  -      j  a                      -
-
.cC-Ob Coca.. .5-. *,.,C,e..,. a.
-  em                         e           I
e--aee.in.-ina  aCe            e      I
..eae00
I *W --
cameoeeC0e cc-ce- a
a  0            0
- - -   (5)
a.g  -
ma
- El  eji
I I 050
I                 0
aaa.ccee- S.S...ca. a0I
-CC                                                          0
anaaan - *nWa*ft - a a a a a a,
a.-a. sa.o.a a.,
at......    aa..a..asaa                               U'
- r 0 000 m n c - a             a -,
Cr CC = - a - a C- Ca -.      CO .C,
.-.ca cc-aS - -.
ft --5 -*Sft -t
o a an - n - an-na - 0 -.na0 ten,
a-ca.,.. an. a. a-. an-a. .
--'a a a.a a.sa. a-.-. -a. -;
aa 0I
a It as.    4,  ft             rae
--.0  Ca  le Sr  r       rab   I
- -. a - - a a a. fi - a - Cr
a  - a      a.  -   a  a    - - a 
a..   -  5        5  -     a sac  - I
s..:-   :    - -  a       ..-..
a ft    -.   -    -        ...., ca  a
a aS        - a -  0          a -.
a           -.  I    --  ft   S
a   a       a - -. - a         - an   I
C   a-      - a    -    n-.,    a
4,  -        a    -.   C  a
-        a     -   -
0=1

- Ce c Ce -. 0 Ce - C 0 = 000 C Ce C Ca-Ce C CCC = Ce I
0 0CCC = 0C
- r- 0 C - e r = r- a c 1 = c C C t C t C C r - e I
II
C 0 0 ------I
--        - 0

LE-



a                                                            -  --  =  Sn  C )  -  - a  - inft    --  -  -    ---  -  -  -  -    f   S      m      n   n   n
_ -          -                       -    _- -   -. o   -c _   _=     _ ~ ~          5         --         _   _   c   -      _     -        _   _
,      ~ ~5^i_5eS,-'                                                  ) e                                      ' elO Z 
_ _         o,  _-               _   -_      -   _) - -                --   -   -          0   .  _,  -  -   -   _   _              *   o, _   w        _
,,, _~           _e                  . _,       ,            -   _                "                      _       l.        .    .        ,    _C         _-    
", _ * _ o * -,  ft                                                                 -   a            -                ama,           _e   -
~~~~~~~_-   a   _  -a   - - O       _a_~._
* ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ , a                                    _ -  -   .           O a                     _  _                _a f   . - - 5 - . -f 
-~ ~        ~                                _ .              e.                                                       _.. _,            -
~~~~~~~~~lSA                                                   SnSn n n n n nl S                           _  Sn  -    b Sn  v b   aet
---   - -   --                   --    --            --    -          -   -- --    --                 --    --            -    ---             -    --
_*_ -- r   _ _ _ _ _ _w _ _ _-                                                   -   =_ -- -- -- -- _ _ _ _  __
r~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                         a -     a   a  a  a   a        - _  C   a _          a -     a -     a   a  -     a   -   _ _ _       
.   .   .  a   .  a    a         a    _.             a   a .  -  a   a  - .       ,    .   a   a .    -   a   a ,     -        a.  _   _,      a   - _.   _,
a                        a           a      ..               a   a            am                   --         a        C   
_   _   _   _O _          _   ea _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _   _-   a _                                                                                a _-                 
_         _ _   __             _    --       -                      -       -               -            a    - _   _   _               
_ ______,__ __
_ _                S a.             ._ft                                   _                                                 _a
_=-   -    -   -   -    -        aa.   ______   ___      
___                    ,_ -_                 - -                  -               ------ ----a                                      -- -             --a aa-
= ___     ___      ___     ____      ___     ___     ____      ___     _   s_  ____      ___      ___     ____      ___     ___     ____      ___     ___
__ _ _ _ _ _ _                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
__________-_-____ _ _ a _ a_~aaaaa     
-    _       _       _       _       _        _       _ _         _       _       _       __                            _-          _ = a._
_ a _ ae _ a _ _  ___   - - a-n  - _n a -n a _ - a a a_
__                    ___ a_                          _       __          _ _ff  _n                       __ -__________Ca-                            a
_           a                a       a _-  _  _  _~               a   a _a -__. .___= __           __a.___      _ _      __a ___       __          __     ___      __           __      ___      __-  __      ___ - __  
_. _    ~  _   _   _   _   _t _                             *    f ~ t          C         tf   tf   f   tf    tf a a a a
_ _ _ _          _ _ _             _ __a_ _ _                              _ _ = _                _ _ _            _ _ _ _               _       ft
_   _                        -                                    ftf   ft                    ft _   _a            ,f   ,e _f        S        
:         * -                            - ---                    :.  e-       .          t                      ft  ft   :f ..  a ^
*-                      ft f-t n  tf   a -  .E. *                 ft ft E  t   a,-                ft,,     , n f Et                           ft ^       -  -   -i
ft  S.                           ft               _ --      a _-f                                  -    = -           -C           S   .ea             C  
-   ft                   a' _                                                                   ft                  a _f _--_-  __    -~                af
f                      -a                  ak _aa.n                              Ca                         0    ft   Z .t an                        ft 
_                     Cfn                a                a _.                                            a       a        a   - _                  a   -   
_. ft                       ft        --                                              -          
_ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     f   ft                                                                ft _          ft_
ft     _t                                                                                                                a ,-
-^_ _                                                                                 
C) C_0 )C C,C C) . )C C) Cc,
_)  ;SC                         a f    S,          a a-C                                             )a-tC)-C                     .aC    )C(
-_-   -               0                2S -  0     - -           0    002-C--oS2 )  
.     C .  .*                                                                                                               .   .-.  ,                                    .
_ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~S_      _E____    



--          -----  -- .                      V      -      -                   _ _
aa_.tfta   a~fl....                 .o                     _ e      _o  a.
inrf.o---                                                ----               ----              ----               ----
_ -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -              -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  I.   _  _ I-   -  -  -                                   L 
nO                   _ "    _                  0           ,   _   _ ,, a  _,- -, -                          , Z    -   _-     -
_      _  _  :.:  .::-                              - -     - -   -  - -  -        -  --     -  a -= -_     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 
_  -  -  -  -  -  - -               -_  -  -   -   -        -  -  -  -      -  -  -- -  -  -  -  -  --    .-a -                            -
--   a    - - -    - - -    - -                    --          M-- -t-a                                     a - 
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ,7 _; ^                                                                             T0. __*,
_ ......... _~.    .  .  .  I.  I  .  Z  .  I  I   .I  I  
_-aC    a                                    a      a  ft a            -. .   . .                                   .    Z
_~~~~~~~c _                                                   _
:a--    -f.-    -  ft                                   -      a  -                              -.                    a          -  -_ -__,,__,__
"-. -                      -:""::"-- ------    --------X
. ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    C C.C
-_                                                                                        _ - - - - - -             a - - - - - - -    
______________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~af
* - _  _  =  _ t _  = _   5 =: _t  _ _ _ _ _ a a  _ _ _ _ _t  _ ft _ _t _ _ _                                                      C _t _ 
a;aa;;; _aa;;;aa;;                 a_           aa;;;; a;f;a_      _       a_t-;      a_ ; a_ t;-a;- _f;ft;; _a _                        _a  ; f
__a     __a     __a     __a    __a_aa          _aa    _a  ______:______a_aa                                   _a  _____a                __a  _ a 
a -_ a a a-                                                              -                 _      -    a a a a - a a a a                    _ 
_                             _          a _                            __            _          a      _        ___           _      a
a                            a           a _            a_                            _D  a_ a__*                                __a
                                                                             
           
-  a_           *      _     _      _ a_                      _      _ a  a_                           _      __         _      _ a_ a a a a a a a e a a              
=~_-_i . a____ a. a . a______ . a_                                a        a        a~ a                   a        f           
;_        ; ;; ;                  _ -;   ;;;                                    ;a             _; _             - _: :
_- __            _       -     -_                  __S           __                 _       _       __        S_         _-        _
_~~ ~ ~ _-     -__ ___                  _____-    _____-    _____      -    __ ___a         ___ __              _____-         ____-            
_ _ _           _ _          -_-_ -a-_                    -     -     -         _        _        _       _        _ =               =_=
___ __        __          __         __         __          ___            __         __          __         __           __
a                                            .   .  -                       .  ,  a.___ __     = =          = =         = =       = =
____                 ____               ____              ___            ____              ____               ____                   __
a, _ a a 2   a - a _   a a    a a a a _                                a a             aaaa.__  _a __ __  _  __  __ 
_                                   __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __                                         _ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _                     
__                  _       _      _      _       _      _      _       __         _      _      _       _        _      _      _      _
__        _ ;        __-  - a                _.  - a  -    _       _  _  _   _; _-  a_  _-  a  a  a  a  a;   _;                             _
-__       _-_                                        -          _      -_        _      _ o                  _         __                _
m:  .: _  ::::: _ -f:a -. -    ni-n                                                                   ^^ ^::  
_ .        .-                    _ a     -       -a                        .. _                    a       ft      a       a         a
;   .      ft         aft  a  a:             a -:       ft = af                           ft tf f = : :a-    .  - :-                    f _: :a_
_-    ft                _ aft      _a     a           a       a-..             -,      t .,t  ft_,~            .     ftf   ft               _
af         _- ^f                                                                                                                      ft     ft    -'-'~      
a     _.                        ft     _t          -      ._                               _       ft             -
_                                    -.     -a          it      t      -                                                              _ 
_          a          fa                     .          a_tf 
a.                                          .                                                                                         :t
a                                 _                                                                                        a
f                                _a
a   --          -      -.   a  a  a,)C           C-         .C .nc          i .n    .. .)                                .       .     w  n a aaC    )
.___ _                   _                  _     _     _     bP_  
--   ----   a  aa  to~~~~-6 ba-                              a..  t=a               -      -      -      -



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
ilAltill Itbasiae sI,                                                             s :   1.8I3,S0  n   21,.131,58   *1"0818  s, 1: 6, (       rvlces       letieje I 1ec                         BETl          :
LIIS ClCLIS U  LlOfIlhlI                                                                         1111111,,.ni,,   :   24.113,6  : n.11,1   o n,su,a,   1,1 .1  1,s)0:1distHria    Asublge de v*llu, betccie,    'IICILI  '
'  '   '   '                                   t          '         '       @| '             :"~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~      ~      ~       ~      ~~~'petsi  reesjrZes  :
IICUII                     SI-IOI'Ieseau           :    s1e  s           -          1 1.oig,oo : I./mu,,       I,. :    -    :        l (I,                                                    '      -           -
:S[CISITO                                                                                                                      I&ILIers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'G11111111u               'Sl-lIs     u.           :It'11, I              -         I ISI    : 11/1/11          1s :    -            11: U,   nlerulcem   Pharrsale d'ITAIe
:nmis.u lpprdita    :Su-lil          1ea                    .l11         '10 : -  11  1.14161 H    11/311       1 1        11        11 16  Olerve        tLherue                               'IIUI          '     2
SCGIAAIO                  :S-1o:11awuas               IsiaSS,   I       -       I 1.411,01  :11/3/16.         31, 31       3        1 1    '  1    lIevale  levies  aitlera                    CISIIII             4'
ANSAIDIN  A31-Ie.luysve                                12.1,         ,16           13.11 1   32116311 46            :     41,6       l,lIewge            bri' 1  hItler ,                       1161001 :           1
GAT&AIAI                  :3I-168:uwias            '    S.so   :        -       :3.SIS I  :31)63/,0           i,3 ':         '      (I1:               :                                             -
SU1ASIl                   '3I-IOIksteas                   481, 0:         -      :    in,..: 21I03110:         os  :    -    ':      { lo                                                              -      '
'ICOIUIU                  'Sl-In:s|es a            0   1S.16110 H:        -      :      -       21/lJ/SI      12 S       121         11 s,l:s.rwsce     'Salellm     u d esec                   BIUtAI        '      I'
IIICICII8                ':S-u,:ueceas             '    1 011,0111     1.11111        1         2it 1/U/II:    0,         11 1w1 :Itri 6                '111 I cirlrles                        mlulufl 
'IUSIIII                  'Sl-1121:1681A           '    I  IS U         I 1 1. 1  I1 5.1511     Iiil2: 211I I'2S '        2I         1.1 :}Suerie       'itlelr stlle     u                    'C1SUCIIC 
S111AVCAH                  s.9-II3:u..,.A.              5.131,111    41.61,18    12.631,6  11 I31ig,,:         3. 2ll     Il         I0,IJ:Service       :mloseri                              c4tucuAWe       :
GASIII  13,75             :11-112 :I ges ea             '642  10615,16 1                 -    : t1/11*111   , 1 :1    1  '            1: 1 'lgl          llt I cArdeler                        'hUCIl               2:
:WISIII Ipisqee             s-11:hs,s              :,  sI.S IS 1       u1 . '   ISI     IIo   s He '           111f'1/  I     : 2 1          v11e'lee   :Slviesm d'ilaers                      hICSLI               1
CLIWOVAI Vi-1s6s'..,, 1"w                              1.313 111          s. I l SI'S1   Sl 3 1/131110         311  '     J,I :1    11,0:11  vue         levluliaiter                         :oISIII               I
ISAIIuAI AI es s           SI-111 1.aa                                   6116                   31/604,  -  IS S6IN  :31,03,r.c -  61 1  6 1    -      :                                      :
IUUIllo                   '11-111  mvaas           :    1.110 H         1.-1I,8H 11.11,            111/111   ,      :      1,5 '         .12    relt  I    ctallules                            :isn 
CISIIiAG                  'SI-1308.aes             ,   I U11         1.31SI12 S.IIS,3 I11/UIII,               Ii S       6 I  S          :Service       Mlielrs    s d clolco                                : CS111   II
IHAIH1S                    Sl-IU8em s                  21 S i H       11 1:3.621 1    s2 122       510 21 '1 1 '             1:       1,   I Senlee           de                                 CIrOS
:UISIIII                  1:-121:11.uve                 6. 11111       2 I          250t 1113,11 :I,//II:      11         1 S        11 ,il:ri rucal Leiee dIst be                            wIICILI                 :
llTOII Vilu                :sl-133:ksv1-I  wees          1 1.161120 :    161453                  3I/S61/91      I1  :      I S        1: 1  ,lulaag     *:hpiesl sl e                           IlClLI               1
momlumall    Ig11i           1 1-12-lhuvees        0       11e1   : 0      311212:      -      :1 1/.1/1:       104        sI  :            s11rictee    'lelie      terra:111I
s111111121ain              51-12l 33 es  1.111 11                      111213,16 :         0 2 312 1  / :      1 1 0          1  1    0 ' * :IAltrI     :  i  chiclet                                         '     t '
C.iiG.                    :s1-u1:u"Veu             ' I.13,n           t 6.0150   1       -      I' 15l0        8,3 :      8,  :      e 1,i service      NFabric,l   d e stre-pla&s             :ai.Ouuio           1 i
uuiuTAwrcAh&              :s:IlnIu,eesw            :   43.I13,60 :    1313,14 O:36.061,16                :          :         :           '             a                                      '              m
'1ASIAIAUO 11      L1 CrelI,1-IlIIeuveas                1 .IS 6III :     I       S31.43              1sfs         i 1      1J1 '      t  :Iuicllsrl e     v   de  *.tgsojailL                                 ':     S
:uItIN lt' Frs;si         ":S1-11,:1"h,e,.                .11630   :    8.153,   1 .    -      :3011011,       1,6 :     3,1         03  S lervIte    Pt1ess p4eadsses                        :IIClLI         :     2:
soilboa                   :S:-31h1.svaas           1  00.3505 | l I.0     -       :6.8,: -        I,siss:    31,1 0    1,1          II0,lhassrla l         ade   di| n a durie                  cumivi               t
:C.r.C.                    si-I33h8.eweas               8.4111,5 '        -      :  .4I8,00 ':I1/s6/,6:         3,1      -           (3I,S5)ervice        Parei                                Ills?.             - 
;AIGAIICII                 SII-Il3hleeeas              16.561,-6l l9@l0 :1.3             1,66:iII6lI           2,  :    -    1        t lz,l:ervice    ':irbaaaia                               lashi
'COIEII - SIIIIN            si-in :u.sv.&s                1 1111,       1 111126     I SS1,1 :l11/061|0:        4,3:       S S,    1   1,  hrtlsase       Atelier ssilt ltuesla.               'CIIOICOIO
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                                _             _                                                  a             a                                                     a1:_______0O0|______l__O



