CREDIT NUMBER 1650 RW
Project Agreement
(Fourth BRD Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOIMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1650 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated e40Maco  t)                 , 1986, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Rwandese Republic (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million   five    hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 8,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BRD
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between tae Borrower and BRD, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to BRD on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BRD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE-the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BRD
Section 2.01. BRD declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Section 3.01 (a) of the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs with due dili-
gence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes
and Statement of Policy, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BRD shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account or
for payments to be made out of the Special Account.
(b) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan), or an Investment, to the Association for approval, BRD
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satis-
factory to the Association, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project
(such appraisal to include a calculation of the internal finan-
cial rate of return and in cases of non-service sector Investment
Projects above the free-limit stipulated in Section 2.02 (b) of
the Credit Agreement, an evaluation of the economic rate of
return in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Associa-
tion), a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the proposed terms and condi-
tions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by BRD for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Invest-
ment Project, including a description of the expenditures pro-
posed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule
of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Association and BRD shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before December 31, 1988.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. (a) BRD undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on
terms whereby BRD shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of BRD, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any such Investment, the rights set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
(b) BRD shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and those of BRD; (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. During execution of the Project, BRD shall
annually review with the Association the interest rates charged
by -BRD in its lending operations and shall make such adjustments
therein as shall be required to maintain positive rates in real
terms and to ensure a spread sufficient to maintain the financial
soundness of BRD.
Section 2.05. BRD shall carry out the obligations set forth
4a Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. BRD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BRD shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BRD shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BRD shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the


﻿-4-
expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, the Investments,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
and the administration, operations and financial condition of
BRD.
(c) BRD shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BRD of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. BRD shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of BRD by the Borrower or its agencies or others for
relending, investment or management. BRD shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.09. BRD shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BRD under this
Agreement to the extent to which such obligations may be made
applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such Subsidiaries.
Section 2.10. BRD shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Association and shall exchange
views with the Association on any proposal to modify its
Statutes.
Section 2.,*1. Except as the Association and BRD shall other-
wise agree, BRD: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 2.12. BRD shall not participate in the financing of
any Investment Project with a projected economic rate of return
of less than 10%.


﻿-5-
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BRD shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of BRD and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(b) BRD shall:
(i) have    its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements), including the
Special Account, audited for each fiscal year in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its. financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are made from the Credit Account or payments are made out of the
Special Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, BRD
shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;


﻿- 6
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
or last payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BRD shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt
of BRD and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed three times the consolidated capital and surplus of
BRD and all its Subsidiaries.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BRD or
any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by BRD or by
a Subsidiary.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.


﻿-7-
(iii)  The term "consolidated debt of BRD and Lii its
Subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
BRD and all its Subsidiaries excluding: (A) debt
owed by BRD to any Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary
to BRD or to any other Subsidiary; and (B) debt
referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) (B) and (C) of
this Section.
(iv) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BRD
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of
(A) the total unimpaired paid-in-capital, sur-
plus and free reserves of BRD and of all its Sub-
sidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BRD in any
Subsidiary, or of any such Subsidiary in BRD or in
any other Subsidiary, (B) the amount of the BRD
Loans and (C) such amount of any other loan which
the Association may determine to be included in
the consolidated capital and surplus of BRD.
(v) Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of BRD's debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BRD shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in
respect of any of its debt which, in the judgment of the Associa-
tion, would materially affect BRD's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.04. BRD shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Rwandese francs) used in its
operations.
Section 3.05. BRD shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that it will progressively reach and maintain a collection
ratio of 100%, specifically by reaching at least 95% in 1985,


﻿-8-
100% in 1986, 102% in 1987 and 105% in 1988 and thereafter, such
ratios to be calculated on a quarterly basis by relating the
total amount of payments on BRD's portfolio collected (including
payments in arrears) during any such quarter to the total amount
falling due during such quarter.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BRD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date sixteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BRD of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, k:elex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-9-
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BRD:
Banque Rwandaise de Dveloppement
Botte Postale 1341
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address                      Telex:
Banque Rwandaise de              563 DEVELBANK
D6veloppement
Kigali
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BRD or by BRD on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Director General, or by such other person or
persons as BRD shall designate in writing, and BRD shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By   *Sg  egional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
IS/
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
and Investments
1.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BRD shall
obtain, inter alia, in respect of Sub-loans, and to the extent
appropriate, of Investments, the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to BRD be pur-
chased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them;
and (ii) such goods and services be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants   and  construction   included  in  the  Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and


﻿- 12 -
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with BRD.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    30th   day of January,
198 ..
FOR SECRETARY


