Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20294
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 27780)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR
FOR THE SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
May 1, 2000
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = FMG franc
FMG 1 = US$ .00016
US$ 1 = FMG 6260
FISCAL YEAR
2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FID          Social Fund (Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement)
IDA          International Development Association
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCD          Project Concept Document
SECALINE   Food Security and Nutrition Project (S&curite Alimentaire et Nutrition
Elargie)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:   Eileen Murray



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  6
6. Sustainability                                                                      7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                   11
10. Additional Information                                                           12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                21
This document has a restricted distinbution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfomance of their officia  duties. Its contents may not otewise be disclosed without
World Bank authoization.






Project ID: P035669                                      Project Name: SOCIAL FUND 2
Team Leader: Eileen Murray                               TL Unit: AFMMG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 1, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL FUND 2                                    LIC Number: 27780
Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/05/95                               Effective: 06/25/96           06/25/96
Appraisal:  08/15/95                                 MTR: 11/01/98             11/22/98
Approval:  09/14/95                               Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Governrnent of Madagascar/Office of the Prime Minister/Fonds d'Intervention pour
le Developpement (Social Fund)
Other Partners:
-STAFF               Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Michael N. Sarris                        N.A.
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Eileen Murray
ICR Primary Author:  James Wright
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives, as stated in the SAR, were to alleviate poverty and support community
development through partnership with NGOs and beneficiary communities. The project would provide
supplemental financing to the Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID), which had been active
in the provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary since 1993.



The objectives were stated somewhat generally which made the assessment of their attainment difficult.
However, they were appropriate and in line with Government strategy. In 1993, 54% of the population
lived below the poverty line (based on 90% of the FAO recommended daily caloric intake plus essential
non-food items). An estimated 92% of the poor lived in rural areas. The rural infant mortality rate was
107, and fewer than one in three children completed the five year priinary school cycle. Poverty reduction
was a pillar of the Government's development strategy. A poverty assessment developed by the Bank and
the Government proposed a poverty reduction strategy using a participatory process. NGO and community
participation was in line with Bank policies and consistent with the need to involve communities, both for
implementation and for longer-term community commitment to maintenance.
The FID II Project was developed as a complement to the ongoing macroeconomic adjustment process in
order to provide important elements of a social safety net program in Madagascar. It was an important
cornerstone of the CAS discussed by the Board on July 18, 1994. Its risk was limited since it was a
follow-on to the successful FID component of the then ongoing SECALINE Project which had strong
borrower support.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components included: (a) construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, including
schools, health centers, water supply, small irrigation systems, rural roads, small bridges, as well as
reforestation and protection of the environment; (b) income generating activities, including activities
pertaining to the Community Nutrition Program under the Food Security and Nutrition Project; and (c)
private sector support programs, including training programs for small enterprises and consulting firns,
and development of community groups and local NGOs. There were also studies: (i) to identify the
demand for potential income generating activities to be financed under the project; (ii) to develop a training
needs assessment and training plan for contractors and engineering consultants; and (iii) to complete a
diagnostic evaluation of technical and contracting procedures to strengthen implementation of sub-projects
by contractors and engineering consultants. Since the project was to be demand driven, exact amounts
were not earmarked for each component. It was assumed, however, that most of the funding would be for
category (a) social infrastructure.
The SECALINE Project (Credit 2474-MAG) which was approved in March 1993 had included the
creation of the Fonds D 'Intervention Pour le Developpment (FID). FID was established as a non-profit
organization to implement labor intensive works through a delegated contract management system in the
Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary. Under SECALINE, FID developed the capacity to achieve poverty
alleviation and development objectives. It acquired the capacity to develop infrastructure sub-projects,
income generating activities and training sub-projects. This experience provided the foundation for the
expansion of FID's activity to all six provinces in the country under the FID II Project. Several lessons
from the SECALINE Project were taken into account in the design of this project (see section 3.5).
3.4 Revised Components:
Component (b) to support income generating activities was dropped fiom the project in 1998 because it
was felt that the small loans program was incompatible with the country's financial sector policies and that
-2 -



this type of initiative could best be managed by financial intermediary institutions (see section 4. 1). This
was not a major restructuring since the funds could be easily allocated to other FID programs through a
demand-driven process.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
The rapid implementation and disbursement of FID II from effectiveness is an indication of its readiness
and quality at entry (27% of credit disbursed in first year). Under the SECALINE Project, FID had an
ongoing successful program in two provinces prior to the initiation of the FID II Project. By the time of its
completion in 1998, the FID component of the SECALINE Project had implemented 348 infrastructure
sub-projects, 36 income generating activities and 10 training sub-projects. The SECALINE project
therefore provided a foundation for program expansion under FID II.
FID is a non-profit organization operating under a Convention between FID and the Government and a
Manual of Procedures covering lending criteria, model agreements and contracts, procurement procedures,
financial management procedures, and administrative procedures. Broad participation in FID management
and membership involved interested parties at all levels. The Board of Directors included one
representative of the Prime Minister (President of the Board), the donor community, NGOs, civic
organizations and two elected by members. Members comprised a broad spectrum of government, NGO,
private sector and community groups. There were also regional advisory committees. The Project
Agreement stipulated that FID would revise the Manual of Procedures not later than June 30, 1996 based
on the results of the studies listed above (section 3.3). In the end, three separate manuals were produced.
The issue of previous poor quality rural road works was identified and later addressed in the revisions of
procedures manuals and through improved training of engineering frms and contractors.
As a demand driven project, FID I did not have fixed implementation targets, but indicative program
monitoring indicators were agreed to (see Annex 1). A set of agreements and operating procedures was
put in place to ensure that this programmatic approach would function smoothly. Regional Directors were
given the authority to approve sub-projects requiring less than US$5,000 from FID, the FID Executive
Director could approve projects requiring less than US$25,000, and larger sub-projects had to be approved
by FID's Board of Directors. IDA's approval was required for project grants in excess of $50,000
(US$100,000 for rural roads). It was agreed that annual work programs and budgets would be prepared
for review with IDA and that annual technical audits would be carried out. The articles of agreement,
By-laws and Manual of Procedures of FID, and the framework agreement between the Government and
FID were required to remain acceptable to IDA. The Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, and
Regional Directors of FID, were at all times to have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
The FID II project design incorporated successful features of the SECALINE Project, including: (a)
involvement of beneficiaries at all stages; (b) regional launch workshops involving all stakeholders; (c) a
decisive Director General who recruited competent staff and let them work independently while monitoring
performance in relation to agreed outcomes; and (d) the organization of FID along private sector lines,
staffed with competent managers. Additional lessons of the SECALINE Project which were taken into
account in designing FID II included:
*  Projects executed outside of traditional govemment structures tend to be more efficient and flexible
in getting quick results in the field and serving the communities; reliance on NGOs and community
groups contributes to success.
*   Communities should participate in project design and implementation.
*   The delegated contract management system for the construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure
- 3 -



works well at a reasonable cost in rural as well as urban areas.
*   Implementation and manual of procedures are very important to facilitate implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementofobjective:
The FID II Project has had an important impact on poverty conditions. By the end of the project, 6.1
million person days of temporary employment had been created (121% of target), and 1,546 permanent
jobs had been created (55% of target). FID expanded its program throughout the country. At the mid-term
review there was a decision to spread the program to the poorest, most isolated regions. A 1999
beneficiary survey of 60 FID financed projects finished before December 31, 1997 gives an indication of
the program's effectiveness and social impact. The survey shows generally positive impacts, but the limited
sample sizes for each type of project may limit the significance of some of the conclusions. (i) In 12 of 15
rehabilitated schools, the number of students increased, in many cases by 25% to 50%. Beneficiaries in all
cases indicated that school rehabilitation had been a priority. (ii) In seven of the ten health centers
surveyed visits had increased, and in all except one case the beneficiaries indicated that the health center
improvements had been a priority. Impact was dampened by a lack of health personnel (see section 6.2).
(iii) The number of beneficiaries of water supply systems increased in all five cases in the sample. In four
of five cases beneficiaries expressed medium or high satisfaction; all considered the projects a priority. (iv)
In five of six irrigation projects, the irrigated area increased. In four of these cases double cropping was
enabled. (v) The number of vendors increased in 6 of 8 market projects. In all cases beneficiaries
considered the markets a priority, but there was less than full satisfaction with the utilization of the
facilities. (vi) All 9 road projects assessed provided improved access to isolated areas; 7 of these were
considered priorities by beneficiaries.
The component to promote income generating activities involved loans for agriculture and other productive
purposes. A separate Manual of Procedures was established for this component after signing. FID was
to give grants to NGOs called "Agences d'Encadrement" which would lend to beneficiaries. Beneficiaries
would repay the loans to the NGOs at interest rates stipulated by a benchmark rate of the Central Bank.
The component got off to a slow start. When the benchmark rate of the Central Bank was raised, lending
rates under the FID program were not increased, and the program became inconsistent with Madagascar's
fmancial sector policies. To correct this, it was decided that loans should be channeled through savings and
loan associations. At the mid-term review in 1998 it was decided to drop this component from the FID
programn altogether and leave rural credit to other programs. The amounts which would have been used for
income generating activities by FID were allocated under other components.
For environment, the project was rated "C" with no significant environmental issues. Some projects
enhanced environmental protection such as reforestation and erosion control. Roads were on existing
aligmnents and schools and health centers were rehabilitated on existing sites.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Objectives
By project completion (including sub-projects still in progress as of 1/1/2000) FID had surpassed several
of its physical improvement targets. FID had worked with NGOs (309 contracts) and community groups to
rehabilitate 450 schools (428% of target) and 185 health centers (229% of target). In addition, 967 km of
rural roads (97% of target) had been rehabilitated and 11,171 ha. had been irrigated (37% of target).
- 4 -



Costs of FID investments were comparable to projects financed under other programs, with the exception
of schools which have cost about 30% more than other programs in order to make them cyclone proof. The
project was implemented more rapidly than planned, closing one year ahead of the original closing date of
December 31, 2000.
Private Sector Development
Implementation of the 1998 program was slowed by 20% due to a lack of sufficient competent engineering
firms, indicating the need to focus on training in project preparation and site supervision. Efforts were
made throughout project to improve the targeting of training to engineering firms and small contractors,
especially for the design and implementation of rural roads sub-projects and to help beneficiaries create
maintenance associations. By December 31, 1999, 55 training courses had been provided for employees of
engineering firms, small/medium contractors and loan program promoters. Since the inception of FID, 226
managers and technicians from more than 100 contracting firms and 374 persons from some 80 engineering
firms have been trained. Participants in FID's training programs have assessed the program's impacts and
an impact study of FID training was undertaken as part of the 1999 beneficiary survey. Participants were
unanimous in recognizing both the impact of the training in winning contracts and in deepening the
professionalism of their firms. FID represents a significant share in the volume of business of many
consulting frms and contractors. Many firms have been able to win contracts from other sources as a
result of their experience with FID. Strengthening the personnel of small and medium contractors,
especially at technical levels, has enabled many firms to develop towards entry into the formal sector. A
total of 1796 contracts had been made with small and medium enterprises (121% of the target) by
December 31, 1999. The 1,796 FID contracts with small and medium enterprises, together with contracts
from other sources, have enabled many firms to acquire construction and office equipment.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
FID sub-projects in economic sectors (transport and small-scale irrigation) are subjected to economic
analysis and have been required to have at least a 15% economic rate of return in order to qualify for
financing. Sub-projects in income generating activities and support to the private sector were expected to
have at least a 20% rate of return. As part of the 1999 beneficiary survey, ex-post economic rates of return
were calculated for rural roads. Four roads had economic rates of return ranging from 41% to 349%; one
had a rate of return of only 3%. For small-scale irrigation, three projects were calculated to have ex-post
rates of return ranging from 22% to 99%; one had a rate of return of only 6%. The lower rates in some
road and irrigation sub-projects reflect political influence in project selection and/or poor quality of
technical work in some project preparation. Since only rehabilitation was undertaken for schools and
health centers, not new construction, these sub-projects are assumed to have yielded high economic rates of
return, although no calculations were made.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Under the project FID expanded its capacity from limited operations in two provinces to much larger-scale
nationwide operations in six provinces. There is now a regional office in each province. A monitoring and
evaluation system has been established. All regional directorates have an e-mail, and reporting information
is transferred to the central directorate in real time. This system allows FID to manage beneficiary
-5 -



requests, monitor contracts, monitor beneficiary contributions, follow performance indicators, and manage
the annual work program. FID produces its monthly reports in real time. The increased capacity gained by
FID in this project has enabled it to undertake a subsequent project and to plan a fourth. FID has been able
to accomplish this program expansion while keeping its operating expenses below the target of 10% of its
expenditure. FID's operating costs did rise to 14% of expendliture in 11996, but this was reduced to 9.74%
by 1997.
The project has supported the Government's decentralization policy which was introduced during the
period. FID made increasing efforts during the project to encourage development at the community and
local government levels. Under this policy local governments (commuanes) have received increased funding
allocations and authority. Beginning in 1998 some mayors of decentralized rural communes became
involved in project selection and funding. By August 1999 25% of projects were being implemented with
some involvement of communes, consistent with decentralization policy. While it is important for elected
local govemment to support sub-projects, especially by allocating funds in their budgets for operation and
maintenance, FID recognized the need to limit politization by balancing the involvement of mayors vis-a-vis
community groups. Mayors' contributions have been limited to 25% ofthe total beneficiary contribution.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
N.A.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While FID was able to implement the programn satisfactorily, there were problems at the political level
which had to be overcome. During the SECALINE project, the FID Director General had been removed
for political reasons. Recruitment of the new Director General involved some political constraints which
may have limited the scope of recruitment, but this did not seriously aifect the outcome of the project. A
new Director General was appointed as a condition of effectiveness for FID II. In 1997 the President of
the Board of FID had to resign for political reasons and the Board of I)irectors did not function well for a
year. Sub-projects requiring Board approval could not be authorized. During that time the thresholds for
projects requiring Board review were raised to $45,000 for infrastructure project and $90,000 for feeder
roads to enable approvals without Board involvement. The lack of an effective Board of Directors and a
President delayed the mid-term review from June to October 1'998.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The agency contributed to the success of the project by expaniing implementation to a national scile
managing implementation well. FID's management systems have worked well, and its increased capacity
provides the base for further, more ambitious projects in the future (see section 4.5).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Differences in appraisal and actual costs were not significant in most cases (see Annex 2). Savings on the
cost of FID subproject consultants were possible because some consullants were financed from other
projects, as were some costs of equipment and vehicles. Savings on incremental recurrent costs reflect the
efficient operations of FID. These savings allowed somewhat more to be spent on FID sub-projects and on
TA, Training, Studies & Audits. Beneficiaries contributed slightly more than expected at appraisal.
- 6-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
FID is a strong institution which has demonstrated its ability to manage a growing program throughout
Madagascar with competent staff and efficient operating procedures. The requests by the Government for
continuing phases of FID involvement are further evidence of the viability of FID. There has also been
considerable improvement in the capacity of local contractors and consulting frms. However, these gains
are not likely to be sustainable without continued external funding.
Maintenance problems were noted during the SECALINE project and during FID II. A 1998 survey
indicated that maintenance problems were particularly evident in rural roads but much less evident in the
case of small irrigation projects. FID and the Bank have carried out an increasing effort to ensure the
proper use of new facilities and to improve community involvement to enhance prospects-for maintenance
and sustainability. At the mid-term review of FID/SECALINE in 1996 a strategy was developed to make
beneficiaries more responsible for infrastructure. Five percent up-front deposits were required from
communities to ensure long-term commitment. NGOs and consulting firms were involved to a much
greater extent to build awareness about maintenance issues. Maintenance manuals were required for all
sub-projects. Local governments (communes), newly elected under government decentralization policy,
were asked to make budget provisions for operation and maintenance in advance of works. It was decided
that communities would not be eligible for further FID financing if maintenance was not undertaken. The
need to focus on maintenance was again stressed by supervision missions during 1998 and at the Mid-term
review in October 1998. It was agreed that communities providing a commitment of more than 5% would
be given priority for new sub-projects, and tolls would be charged for rural roads. Community
commitment would be encouraged even more strongly by a proposed future operation which will enable
communities to undertake many types of works directly.
After the mid-term review, a large maintenance support program was launched in 1998 aimed to: (a)
inspect the maintenance of projects finished before December 1997; (b) improve the promotion of
maintenance with beneficiaries through technical assistance; and (c) elaborate an improved maintenance
strategy for FID projects. The survey indicated that 49% of sub-projects still under contractors' guaranties
were considered poorly maintained and another 21% were only moderately well maintained. These figures
improved to 35% poorly maintained and 29% moderately maintained after consultants visited the sites
again. Sub-projects which had been turned over to communities were better maintained (47% poorly and
32% moderately before consultants' visits and 26% poorly and 28% moderately after consultants' visits).
Despite improvements after FID efforts, the results indicate the difficulty of the maintenance issue.
Problems in the staffing of health centers and schools also suggest sustainability problems (see section 6.2).
However, FID's consistent efforts to face these problems gives some optimism that better results can be
achieved in the future.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Agreements were made with sector ministries that schools and health centers will be properly staffed and
FID has entered into Protocoles d'accord with them. Regional Consultative Committees (CCRs) which
have representation from sector ministries and concemed NGOs have also approved projects and made
staffing commitments before appraisal. However, there, have been consistent problems in staffimg health
centers by the Health Ministry. At the time of the mid-tenr review many facilities were not properly
staffed. In the 1999 beneficiaries survey, insufficient personnel was cited as a problem in 9 out of 10
health centers. This problem also existed for schools, but was less severe (6 of 16 schools had insufficient
- 7 -



personnel). In 1998 FID determined it would not finance more health centers until this problem is
rectified.
Relevant performance indicators:
* Degree to which project was a priority of beneficiaries; degree of satisfaction
* Staffing levels of schools and health centers
*   Budgets for maintenance and maintenance levels of health centers, schools, irrigation systems,
markets.
*   Quality of infrastructure
*   Number of pupils in schools (before and after), indicators of irmproved education
*   Number of patients in health centers, and indicators of improved health
* Increased area of irrigation/production
* Ex-post ERRs of roads and irrigation systems
* Number/types of employees of consulting and contracting firmts trained.
Recommended follow-up by the Bank.
Continued beneficiary surveys with larger samples to assess satisfaction and design and maintenance
arrangements.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared during supervision missions for the SECALINE P'roject which led to economies
in preparation. The essential elements for a project of this type were put in place during SECALINE and
expanded for FID II. This included a good institutional structure, sound procedures and a plan for
extending the program into new regions. The fact that it began disbursing so rapidly is an indication that it
was well prepared. Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The project was supervised by local hire staff and headquarters staff based in the field. This contained
costs and enabled informal supervision between missions. Teclmical audits by an engineer also
complemented Bank supervision and reduced cost. Supervision costs were further reduced because Bank
staff allocated time to several FID projects at once which were in various stages of preparation and
implementation and specialist consultants funded by trust funds were frequently used. Annual reviews
were carried out with the borrower, including a mid-term review in 1998. The annual technical audits
carried out by an engineer complemented supervision efforts, and financial audits were also carried out as
planned and reviewed by supervision missions.
-8 -



A social impact study of the project at the beneficiary level was made at the end of the SECALINE project.
A further study was not undertaken until 1999, although the SAR called for them on an ongoing basis. It is
doubtful, however, that additional early studies would have affected the implementation of the rest of the
project, since implementation was proceeding at a rapid pace. However, these surveys have helped in the
design of subsequent projects. Annual technical audits inspected samplings of FID projects and gathered
some of the information normally collected in a beneficiary assessment (e.g. quality, status, usefulness of
works). On balance supervision is judged to be satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Especially given the rapid implementation, one year ahead of schedule, and positive results of impact
assessments, supervision by the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project was well prepared by FID as a follow-on to the FID component of the SECALINE Project. FID drew
lessons from the previous project and was able to set up a nationwide network to implement the project.
Performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although, as noted above, there were some problems with support for the project from the Government
level, these problems did not seriously affect the outcome of the project. In fact, the rapid implementation
of the project was due in large part to strong support from the Govermment. The Prime Minister took a
direct interest in FID, and the government always provided counterpart funding on time. Government
performance is therefore rated satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
FID successfully extended the project throughout the country. Technical audits indicate that over the
course of the project FID reacted to many of the problems and constraints that were identified. The need to
improve the existing capacity of consulting and engineering firms was identified early in the project and
FID worked to accomplish this, although capacity is still a constraint. FID's procedures were noted to
improve during the project, beneficiary participation improved, and FID's ability to make payments on time
improved. Work quality problems persisted, but they diminished towards the end of the project.
One problem cited by beneficiaries in the 1999 beneficiary survey was the lack of contact and animation at
the local level by FID. Insufficient animation was cited for 9 out of 16 school projects, 5 out of 10 health
center projects, 4 out of 10 small-scale irrigation projects and 6 out of ten market projects. This suggests
that FID lacked the resources to support community mobilization efforts to the extent desired. Consultants
were hired for this purpose but this did happen quickly enough during the project. Financial audits were
late during early years of the project due to the high volume of work. By mid 1989 the audit was on time,
but the auditor was still unable to give an opinion because of problems distinguishing between FID I, II and
III. This was a minor problem. FID could identify which works were financed under each credit, but in
some cases costs related to the reception of the works could not be distinguished.
In spite of the above points, FID's performance is rated satisfactory. It successfully expanded an
efficiently managed program throughout the country and it implemented the project one year ahead of
-9-



schedule. It implemented the maintenance support program and is following up to improve the prospects
for sustainabillity in future operations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the successful implementation of the project, the overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned are being addressed as part of the Communiity Development Fund and have
been incorporated into the PCD for that project.
* Projects designed and managed .outside of Government can recruit more competent staff and get
better results, but they cannot be completely isolated from political influence. One way to
minimize government influence is by building partnerships wilh communities and local
governments, giving them more influence at all stages.
*   Direct beneficiazy involvement in implementation, currently being piloted by FID, should also
improve the influence of beneficiary communities. The proposed Community Action Program
being considered for FID IV, which would finance a range of infrastructure and services selected
by communities, would further empower beneficiaries.
v A large commitment to maintenance is essential in this type of program to improve the likelihood of
sustainability. Using consultants to follow up and animate commumities on maintenance issues
has helped. Maintenance improved after consultant visits, but more needs to be done in a program
of this scope (see section 6.1).
v   Inadequate animation by FID and inadequate results on maintenance were risks of a program of
this size and scope, spread throughout a country as large and as difficult to travel in as
Madagascar (see section 7.6). In many cases FID lac.ked the resources to follow up as necessary,
since it was committed to keeping its operating expenses at 1 0%4) of total expenditure. It may be
more efficient to spend a somewhat higher percentage for operating expense if this can be used to
improve community outreach and maintenance.
* It is important to ensure that the FID's activities are in line with the strategies of sector ministries,
not only at the national level but within the decentralized structLre. Such coordination is also
important within the Bank to ensure that infrastructure constructrion and maintenance is in line with
the programs supported by the social sub-sectors in the Bank (see section 6.2).
* A simpler structure to oversee non-governmental organizations like FID might help to minimize
infighting and political interference (see section 5.2). FID was set up to have wide representation
from a broad spectrum of groups in order to provide for broad participation and checks and
balances. However, this sometimes led to stalemates and indecision. This happened when the
Board ceased to function well in 1997. The size and communications problems of Madagascar
made it difficult for the Board and the members to come togethLer when necessary.
*   Training programs for engineering firms and small and mediunm contractors have improved the
competence of these firnns and the quality of work and should be continued (see section 4.2).
Feedback from trainees indicates that courses should be expanded for roads and building sites and
- 10 -



should include technicians from local governments. In addition, courses in micro-irrigation for
consulting firms should be expanded, and courses for senior technicians, including management,
should be added to the curriculum. Courses should also be made available for sociologists and
other employees of consulting firms dealing with community development.
*  It is important for low income groups in rural areas to have access to credit to enhance their
income earning potential. However, effective small loan programs are difficult to establish, and
their impact will remain limited if they operate outside a country's financial markets. It is
preferable for small loan programs to be integrated within existing financial policies, markets and
institutions (see section 4.1)
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
N/A
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The following comments have been provided by local governments and private contractors:
1. Mr. REMI, Mayor of the Rural Commune Joffreville - Antsiranana:
The beneficiaries' involvement required for the community health center in Joffreville is a bit heavy, not in
monetary terms but in the amount of animation required, and that led to a delay in starting and the progress
of the work. The Government played no role on the project, as is customary for the people in collaborating
with FID. The main thing that cannot be overlooked is maintenance. The population now understands the
difficulties in construction. Tomorrow it will learn that maintenance will be necessary to ensure the center
will stay functioning. In my opinion, we can count on sustainability through maintenance, since the
members have already planned for it.
2. Mrs. RAZAFIIARZAY Jonshon, Director of the construction firm MILANTO - Antananarivo:
I had three contracts during the period with DRT and two with DRA. Competition was hard because of the
large number of participants and because it involved construction. Every contract benefited us. However
small the profit, it suited us because FID works are financed autonomously and bills are paid alnost
immediately. In the beginning there were serious difficulties responding to bid requests because the number
of documents and details of pricing requested. Only after the first contract did we understand the need and
importance of these details. In general this method brought a lot to us.
3. Mr. RAYMOND Claude, Co-Director of the construction firm ORIMBATO - Antananarivo:
My results with FID are good. I had 12 contracts, 9 in Antananarivo and 3 in Toliara. The results were
generally positive, varying with the time and locality of the sub-projects. FID not only contributed to the
development of my firm, but it also developed the technical knowledge of our personnel. FID enabled us to
create temporary employment which is very important, especially in the regions where we work.
4. Mr. ANDRIAMIHAJA Pierre, construction frmn ECOMET - Mahajanga:
-11 -



I congratulate FID for having been able to decentralize since 1995. It is a great advantage for the small
and medium enterprises in the provinces. We hope decentralization is applied at the regional level. The
problem in this sector is that there are not enough qualified technicians working. FID should increase the
training of enterprises. FID should consider the age of the enterprises preselected which have always
worked with it. The process of disbursements is too slow whiich affects the cash flow of small enterprises.
Strict application of the rules would promote professionalism and be very much appreciated.
5. Mr. FAROUK, Mayor of the Commune of Masomeloka (Faritany Toamasina):
The rural commune of Masomeloka worked with FID in 1999 to construct the Masomeloka Market.
Generally we have good relations with FID. But we deplore, nonetheless, the difficulties in communication
in our region which constrain our communication with FID. The municipality is satisfied with the
construction of the first lot. Unfortunately, because of communications difficulties and problems in
mobilizing, we were not able to finish our contribution for the second lot. For this reason FID put off the
second lot. From the beginning of the project, we had in place a provisional committee in charge of
contributions. We haven't yet occupied the project because we are waiting for the provisional reception.
But this is the same committee which is supposed to sensitize users and collect maintenance funds. At the
level of the commune, we plan to sell tickets for each market day and include FMG 2000 in our budget for
maintenance.
6. Mr. LAIMISONDROTRA Thomas, Mayor of Beforona (Faritany Toannasina):
Individuals found their own water supply for a long time in Beforona. Since December 1999, thanks to
FID, the problem was solved. However, we note that since the 15 standpipes and the wash basin function
at the same time, the amount of water is insufficient. The design firm explained to us that we should
organize water management by water committees which we have established. For the moment, we have
water committees for each standpipe, but after discussions with FID and the design finn we are convinced
that the committees should be drawn into one more formal association which we are now doing. Above all,
these committees need to be reinforced because some of the standpipes are next to the street and are
vandalized by people passing by.
7. Mr. RABAKO Justin, President of the project cell (PC College Rainisoalambo- Fenerive Est)
(Farantany Toamasina):
We have good relations with FID. In every community project we have appreciated the confidence FID has
given us to completely manage the project. We also recognize that the FID team has spent a lot of time
training us to manage the project. For us, the collaboration of FID in the community project has been
enriching, because there were many new aspects: consultation of partner-s, procurement, control of works,
etc. FID has been too rigid about the 20% contribution necessary. For. some months we have been putting
money aside to have our maintenance fund. Our community already is accustomed to take charge of
maintaining its assets. If FID plans to develop community projects, we hope the 20% deposits will be
reduced. We also would like project cells to be trained by FID) before starting projects.
10. Additional Information
NA
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-Temporary days of employment created:                                        6,065,300
Objective: 5,000,000                                                         (121.3% of target)
- Penmanent jobs created.                                                     1,546
Objective: 2,800                                                              (55.2% of objective)
- Number of contracts with artisans:                                          122
Objective 200                                                                (61% of objective)
- Number of contracts with local SMEs:                                        1,796
Objective: 1,200                                                             (149.6% of objective)
- Schools Rehabilitated                                                       450
Objective: 105                                                               (428.5% of objective)
- Health centers rehabilitated                                                183
Objective: 89                                                                (228.7% of objective)
- Kmn of feeder roads rehabilitated                                            967
(Objective: 1,000)                                                             (96.7% of objective)
- No. of hectares irrigated                                                    11,071
(Objective: 30,000                                                            (36.9% of objective)
Output Indicators:
Separate Outcome/Impact Indicators and
Output Incicators were not provided for in the
SAR.
End of project
-13 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comr  nent (in US$ million  uivalent)
Equipment                                               0.40            0.18          45
Vehicles                                                0.70            0.27          39
FID Projects                                           31.80          37.64          118
FID Sub-Project Consultants                             3.10           0.07            2
TA, Training, Studies & Audits                          1.60            1.75         109
Incremental Recurrent Costs                             2.60            2.30          88
Total Baseline Cost                                    40.20           42.21
Physical Contingencies                                 4.00
Price ConfIngencies                                    1.20
Total Project Costs               45.40           42.21
Total Financing Required                45.40          42.21
Proiect Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate US$ million e uivalent
1_^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f /V E S                 i
1. Works                     0.00         32.20         3.60         0.00          35.80
(0.00)       (27.70)       (3.10       (0.00)        (30.80)
2. Goods                     1.00          0.00         0.40         0.00          1.40
(0.90)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (1.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         5.30         0.00          5.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.30)       (0.00)        (5.30)
4. Recurrent Costs           0.00          0.00         2.90          0.00         2.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.60)       (0.00)         (2.60)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00          (0.00)
Total                      1.00         32.20        12.20         0.00         45.40
(0.90)      (27.70)       (11.30)       (0.00)       (39.90)
- 14 -



Proiect Costs b Procurement Arran ements Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million equivalent
1. Works                        0.00          33.97          3.04           0.00          37.01
(0.00)        (27.68)        (2.69)        (0.00)         (30.37)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.00          0.45           0.00          0.45
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.42)        (0.00)         (0.42)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          2.45           0.00          2.45
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.14)        (0.00)         (2.14)
4. Recurrent Costs              0.00           0.00          2.30           0.00          2.30
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.06)        (0.00)         (2.06)
S. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
S. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (O .00)       (O .00)        (.0
Total                        0.00          33.97          8.24           0.00          42.21
==________________  (0.00)   (27.68)        (7.31)        (0.00)        (34.99)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Ilncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
l                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Ap raisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
FID Projects            30.60      3.60      1.80     30.37      3.79      2.85     99.2  105.3  158.3
FID Sub-Projects Consit  3.50                          0.69      0.01               19.7   0.0    0.0
TA,Train,Studies, Audit  1.60                          1.45      0.30               90.6   0.0    0.0
Equip,Veh,Furn, Other    1.40                          0.42      0.03               30.0   0.0    0.0
Incremental Recur Cost   2.90      3.60                2.06      0.24               71.0   6.7    0.0
Notes:
1. Latest estimates of cost and financing amounts were provided by implementing agency and reflect
amounts of US Dollars disbursed at current exchange rates during the project period. They underestimate
actual dollar cost and financing amounts.
2. Cofinancing amount in "Project Financing by Component" table represents beneficiaries' contribution.
- 15 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
FID sub-projects in economic sectors (transport and small-scale irrigation) are subjected to economic
analysis and have been required to have at least a 15% economic r ate of return in order to qualify for
financing. Sub-projects in income generating activities and support to the private sector were expected to
have at least a 20% rate of return. As part of the 1999 beneficiary survey, ex-post economic rates of return
were calculated for rural roads. Four roads had economic rates of return rakging from 41% to 349%; one
had a rate of return of only 3%. For small-scale irrigation three projects were calculated to have ex-post
of return ranging from 22% to 99%; one had a rate of return of only 6%. Since only rehabilitation was
undertaken for schools and health centers, not new construction, these sub-projects are assumed to have
yielded high economic rates of return, although no calculations were made.
- 16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:.-__
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation             This project was prepared
during supervision missions for
the SECALINE Project
Appraisal/Negotiation
5   Economist, Imp. Spec.,
Nutritionist, IEC Specialist,
MIS Specislist
Supervision
6196                          4  Implementation Spec, Social          S                 S
Fund Spec., Procurement
Spec., Engineer
12//96                        2  Implementation Spec, Social          S                 S
Fund Spec.
8/97                          2  Implementation Spec, Social          S                 S
Fund Spec.
2/98                          5  Implementation Spec, Portfolio       S                 S
Assist, Operations Assist,
Disbursement Spec, Procurement
Spec.
7/98                          2  Implementation Spec,                 S                 S
Procurement Spec
10/98                         3  Implementation Sped, Social          S                 S
Funds Spec, Engineer
8/99                              Implementation Spec, ????           S                 S
5/99,2/99&10/99,                  Missions for the preparation of
the Community Dev. Fund
Project (FID IV) also supervised
final stages of FID II
ICR
1/00                         I   Implementation Spec                  S                 S
- 17 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Ac___atest_ ___Estimate_E    _ _|
:    : ; j N. jStaffweeks0 -          us$ L US00)   i
Identification/Preparation               40.5                       155.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    74.3                     _ 311.9
Supervision                              44.8                       172.5
ICR                                                               _  12.0
Total                                   159.6                     _ 651.4
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
-19 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I1 Lending                                           O HS * S  O lJ  O HU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS   C( >:1  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS * S  O  lJ  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
M Preparation                                        O HS O S   OCU   O HU
Z Government implementationperformance               0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S   O  1J  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U  O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Manual of Procedures
Maintenance Manuel
Quarterly and Annual Reports
Aide-Memoire of Project Completion Mission
Project Agency's Completion Report
- 21 -



Republique de Madagascar
Deuxieme Projet de Fonds Social (FID II)
Cr. 2778-MG
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE FIN DE PROJE'T
Janvier 2000
Introduction
1.     Madame Eileen Murray, chargee des operations, a effectue des visites au FID dans le
cadre de la pr6paration du rapport d'achevement du projet FID II. Les visites avaient
pour objectifs de: (a) faire le point sur les indicateurs de performance du FID II; (b)
discuter des themes a aborder dans la contribution de l'emprunteur au rapport
d'achevement; et (c) discuter des modalites pratiques de fermeture du projet.
2.     A la cloture du FID II, le FID aura receptionne 1,645 sous-projets (427 sont actuellement
en cours de realisation ou de reception). A la date du 31 decembre 1999, le FID a
receptionne 1,218 projets repartis comme suit:
*      591 infrastructures sociales (ecoles, centres de sante, adduction d'eau)
*      196 infrastructures productives (micro-perimetres irriguds, abattoirs, marches et autres)
*      169 infrastructures de d6blocage (pistes, ponts et radiers)
*      7 infrastructures de protection de l'environnement (digue de protection et bassins
versants)
*      239 activites generatrices de revenus
*      16 activites pour appuyer le secteur prive.
Voir Annexe 1 pour plus de details.
Impact sur le Developpement
En ce qui conceme I'impact du FID sur le developpement, le FID continue a surpasser ses
objectifs dans plusieurs domaines: (a) environ 4.5 millions de persomies jours de travail
temporaire ont e  crees; (b) environ 3.5 millions de beneficiaires ont it6 atteints; (c) le FID a
continue les formations formelles et sur le tas pour les MPE, BE, ONGs, et groupements
communautaires; (d) environ 200 MPE et bureaux d'etudes ont ete crees pour repondre aux
appels d'offre du FID et il est estime que 1,500 emplois permanents ont et crees; et (e) les
femmes ont beneficie d'environ 25 a 30 pour cent des sous-projets. en ce qui concerne la
repartition geographique, 107 sur les 111 Fivondronana, et 623 sur les 1,438 Communes ont
beneficie de sous-projets sur le projet FID II.
22



Perennite des Actions du FID
Deux aspects concrets demontrent la perennite des actions du FID dans le moyen terme.
Premierement, le FID a recrute un bureau d'etudes qui a prepare un manuel d'entretien pour les
divers ouvrages du FID. Ce manuel sera utilise dans le cadre de la formation des groupes
communautaires pour leur apprendre sur le tas quelles dispositions ils devraient prendre pour
assurer une perenisation des ouvrages. Par ailleurs, le FID exige maintenant qu'une association
d'usagers soit creee et soit pleinement operationnelle. Finalement, compte tenu de l'acroissement
d'activites en mileu rural a Madagascar, plusieurs entreprises qui ont ete creees pour repondre A
des appels d'offres du FID ont ete attributaires d'autres marches sur d'autres sources de
financement.
Cholera
Le cholera est en augmentation a Madagascar pendant cette saison des pluies. Le FID a pu
repondre tres rapidement A la demande pour les financement des activites liees a la lutte contre le
cholera au niveau des communautes les plus touchees. Le FID est en train de financer la
construction ou rehabilitation de 81 latrines lavoirs. Ces rehabilitations ont etd faites par des
tacherons de la region concemee. Par ailleurs, le FID a appuye la mise en place de comites de
gestion pour ces latrines et appuie aussi des petites campagnes d'IEC sur la propretd menees par
ces comites de gestion.
Points en Suspens
Les projets communautaires ont bien demarre. II a ete convenu que le FID en 2000
n'entreprendrait que des projets communautaires et continuerait a mettre 1'accent sur 1'entretien
des ouvrages existants.
FMG 300 millions doivent encore etre rembourses pour des AGRs. II a e  convenu qu'au fur et
a mesure que cet argent serait rembourse, il serait verse dans le compte sp6cial du FID III pour
etre utilise pour d'autres activites prevues dans le FID III.
En ce qui conceme l'audit financier, il a ete convenu que l'audit 1999 se ferait en m8me temps
que l'audit de l'exercice 2000, compte tenu du fait que les fonds du FID II seront epuises avant le
30 mars 2000 et donc que l'auditeur pourrait commencer ses travaux debut avril 2000 afin
d'assurer que le rapport soit soumis a la Banque Mondiale avant la date butoir du 30 juin 2000.
Le FID devrait s'assurer que l'auditeur est paye avant que les fonds soient epuises ou le credit
cl6ture.
11 a ete convenu que le FID continuerait A faire les receptions provisoires et definitives dans les
delais, pour s'assurer que les projets devant etre receptionnes en mars 2000 soient effectues.
En ce qui conceme les vieilles voitures et equipements du FID, il est fortement suggere que toutes
les demarches soient faites pour les transferer dans les plus brefs delais a la primature.
Tous les actifs du FID II devraient 8tre transferes sur l'inventaire du FID III.
23



Rapport d'Achevement
Le FID a eu une copie du projet de rapport d'achevement du FID II. II a ete convenu que le FID
transmettrait, au plus tard le 15 fevrier 2000, sa contribution au rapport d'achevement, ainsi que
les chiffres actualises sur les decaissements, les passations de marches, les couts et le financement
du projet, ainsi que les indicateurs de performance.
24



Annexe 1
INDICATEURS DE REALISATION FID II
Realisations
INDICATEURS
Ant6rieures        En 1999            Total
Nombre d'ecoles                                  270                80              350
Nombre CSB                                        91                38              129
Km Pistes                                       655                102              757
HJJ temporaires                            3 682 724         1 232 658         4 915 382
Emplois permanents                             1 045                               1 045
Ha. irrigues                                   8 895               926            9 826
Ha. proteges                                   l 460                20             1 480
Marche BE                                       364                192              556
Marche MPE                                       815               425             1240
Contrat Tacherons                                100                22              122
Convention AE/ONG                               295                 14              309
25



Annexe 2
CHIFFRES DE REALISATION DU CREDIT FID II
INDICATEURS                    Projets Receptionnes     Projets    Total
Anterieurs   En 1999   en 1999
INFRASTRUCTURE DE BASE
Ecoles                                              270         88        100       458
CSB                                                  91         44         48       183
AEP                                                  52         36         25       113
Assainissement                                                   4         27        31
Autres                                                4          2          4         10
EBD Sociales                                        417        174        204       795
MPI                                                  46         26         10        82
Marches                                              64         35         28       127
Abattoirs                                             2          4          2         8
Magasin                                               5          2                    7
Autres                                                 1        11                    12
IBD Productives                                     118         78         40       236
Pistes                                               81         39         24       144
Ponts et autres                                      31         18         18        67
IBD Deblocage                                       112         57         42       211
Digue de protection                                   4          2                    6
Bassin versant                                                    1                    1
IDB Protection                                        4          3          0         7
Total IDB                                           651        312        286      1249
ACTIVITES GENERATRICES DE REVENUS
Programmes de micro-cr6dits                          45         16         38        99
Projets de petit credit                              26         52        103       281
Total AGR                                            71         68        141       380
APPUI AU SECTEUR PRIVE
Forrnation BE MPE                                    10          5                    15
Formations beneficiaires                               1                               1
Total ASP                                            11                    0         16
NOMBRE TOTAL DE PROJETS                       833        385        427      1645
1996       1997       1998       1999
Evolution du ratio de performnance                 15,50      10,83      10,83      9,53
1996        1997        1998         1999         Total
Decaissement Projet FID II  8 107 329   51 243 247  56 459 616  44 276 458   160 086 650
Situation au 31-12-99
26



EVALUATION DE      j
L'EXECUTION
DU PROJET FID II
Ffvrker 2000
27



PROJET FID II
1- LE CADRE DES ACTIVITES
1.1.   Le Projet FID II s'insbre dans le cadre general de l'ajusternent macroeconomique et dans
les efforts de l'Etat pour reduire la pauvrete. II participe ainsi au renforcement des conditions
d'une croissance durable basee sur des initiatives communautaires et individuelles, en relation
avec les collectivites locales et/ou des organismes non gouvemementaux (ONG). Ces conditions
de croissance durable ont pour base le developpement des ressources humaines A m8me de g6rer
les infrastructures de base (IDB) mises en place.
Le Projet ceuvre sur tout le territoire de Madagascar par le biais de << I'Association FID ,
structure autonome A but non lucratif et reconnue d'utilite publique. Il est financ6 par un pret de
l'IDA, le fonds de contrepartie (FCP) de l'Etat malgache et les contributions des beneficiaires et a
demarr6 en juillet 1996.
1.2.   En tant que Fonds Social, le FID finance des sous-projets identifies et demandes par des
beneficiaires. Ce financement vise la construction ou la rehabilitation d'infrastructures de base
(IDB) (cout inferieur a USD 50.000 pour les infrastructures sociales et productives - cout
inferieur A USD 100.000 pour les infrastructures de deblocage - sauf approbation prealable de la
Banque mondiale) et des Activites Generatrices de Revenu (AGR).
Les travaux d'infrastructures sont realises soit par des micro et petites entreprises (MPE), des
tacherons, ou des ONG.
Le Projet participe a la promotion de ces entites soit directement en financant les travaux, soit par
le biais de la formation, concretisee par un programme d'Appui au Secteur Prive (ASP).
1.3.   Le cadre juridique des activites est regi par: (i) I'Accord de Credit de Developpement
entre l'Etat Malgache et l'IDA (Credit 2778-MAG), (ii) I'Accord de Projet entre l'IDA et le FID,
et (iii) la Convention entre l'Etat Malgache et le FID.
En somme, le FID concretise les objectifs du Projet et gere dans des conditions bien definies les
credits alloues par l'Etat (emprunt IDA et FCP).
Le coit total du Projet a et estime A USD 45,4 millions (100,0%) dont le financement se repartit
comme suit: (i) USD 40,0 millions sur le compte de l'IDA, soit 88,1%, (ii) USD 3,6 millions sur
le compte du Gouvernement Malgache, soit 7,9% et (iii) USD 1,8 millions sur le compte des
beneficiaires, soit 4,0%.
Le cadre des activites etait bien defini, ainsi que les attributions et les prerogatives de chaque
entite - partenaire a savoir: I'Emprunteur (Etat malgache), le bailleur de fonds (IDA) et le
developpeur du projet (FID). Chaque entite - partenaire a rempli ses obligations conformement
aux Accords et Conventions, d 'oi la serenite de I 'atmosph re de travail.
La composante AGR a toutefois ete arretee en cours de route (septembre 1998).
28



2. RESULTATS
2.1.   Les realisations physiques sont donnees dans le tableau qui suit:
Tableau 1 : Realisation du PROJET FID II
Rubrique            Sous-projets         Sous-projets en      Total
receptionnes    travaux au 01.01.2000
-  Ecoles                              358                    100        458
-  CSB                                  135                    48         183
-  AEP                                  88                     25         113
-  Assainissement                        4                     27          31
-  Autres                                6                      4          10
IDB Sociales                           591                    204         795
-  MPI                                  72                     10          82
-  Marches                              99                     28         127
-  Abattoirs                             6                      2           8
-  Magasin                               7                      -          7
-  Autres                               12                      -          12
IDB Producives                         196                     40        236
-  Pistes                              120                    24          144
-  Ponts et autres                      49                     18         67
IDB Ddblocage                          169                     42        211
-  Digue de protection                   6                      -           6
-  Bassin versant                         I                                 I
IDB Protection                            7                     -           7
TOTAL IDB                              963                    286       1.249
-  Micro-credits                        61                     38         99
-  Petits credits                      178                    103        281
TOTAL AGR                              239                    141        380
NOMBRE TOTAL DE                      1.196                   427       1.629
PROJETS                                                        _
Les sous-projets en cours d'execution au 01/01/2000 seront cl6tures avant la fin mars 2000.
La rapidite de 1'execution et 1'extension des realisations (dans 623 Communes sur les 1.400
Communes de Madagascar) ont contribue a la visibilite et la credibilite du FID.
2.2.   Le volet ASP a vu la realisation de trente trois sdances de formation, axees specialement
sur l'amrlioration des capacites des partenaires.  Le tableau suivant donne les sujets du
programme:
Tableau 2:
AGR:                                                             Nombre de seances:
-  Encadrement technique et financier des projets en micro-finance  12 (2 par province)
MPE:
-  Gestion d'entreprise                                          3 (national)
-  Gestion de chantier en HIMO                                   4 (Antananarivo-Majunga -
-  Technique routiere en HIMO                                    Fianarantsoa - Toamnasina)
-  Recyclage des conducteurs des travaux et chefs de chantier     12 (2 par province)
B.E. :
-  Gestion des Bureaux d'Etudes (cadre gerant)                   2 (national)
-  Techniques des batiments                                      2 (national)
-  Conception des routes en terre et ouvrages                    3 (national)
-  Recyclage des agents de contr6le et surveillance              12 (2 par province)
-  Conception des MPI (micro-perimetre irrigue)                  2 (national)
29



2.3. Les indicateurs de suivi du Projet sont donnes dans le tableau qui suit:
Tableau 3: Indicateurs de suivi du Projet FLD 11*
Indicateurs        Objectifs    Realisation au    En cours au     Pourcentage de realisation
(1)       31/12/99 (2)    01/01/00 (3)
(2) (1)        (2+3) (1)
Nombre d'ecoles rehabilitees     105              350            100         333,3              428,5
Nombre CSB rehabilites            80              135            48          168,7              228,7
Km pistes rurales              1.000              757           210           75,7               96,7
Ha. irrigues                  30.000            9.821          1.250          32,7               36,9
Ha. proteges                  16.000            1.520            180           9,5               10,6
Hj. d'emplois temporaires   5.000.000        4.915.300      1.150.000         98,3              121,3
Emplois permanents crees       2.800             1.546             -          55,2
Contrats avec MPE              1.200            1.796              -         149,6
Contrats avec tacherons         200               122              -          61,0
Contrats avec ONG               400               309              -          77,2
* Objectifs dans le rapport d'dvaluation n14489 MAG du 12.06.95 de la Banque Mondiale
Les realisations sont a la mesure des efforts consentis et les indicateurs de suivi sont atteints et
depasses, exception faite pour les micro-perimetres irrigues (du fait du nombre des demandes
recues) et des emplois permanents cre6s (du fait de l'arret des AGR).
2.4.   Le tableau suivant donne la repartition des decaissements par categorie de depenses
suivant l'Accord de Credit de Developpement.
Tableau 4: Decaissements du Projet FID II - Credit 2778 MAG( au 31.12.1999
Cat6gorie           Montant allouk             Decaissement                     Solde
En DTS      En USD        En DTS        En USD         En DTS       En USD
1. Travaux et
fournitures pour les    19.980.000  27.440.132,40  21.393.905,49   29.349.523,43  - 1.413.905,49  - 1.909.391,03
sous-projets
2. Services de
consultants et       2.140.000   2.939.033,20    505.461,87   694.191,22   1.634.538,13    2.244.841,98
formation au titre des
sous-projets
3. Assistance
Technique, formnation    1.000.000   1.373.380,00   1.054.179,37    1.447.788,86    - 54.179,37  - 74.408,86
et etudes
4. Equipement,
vehicules, mobilier    790.000   1.084.970,20    304,605,66   418.339,32    485.394,34     666,630,88
5. Cofits de
fonctionnement       1.590.000   2.183.674,20   1.497.850,14    2.057.117,42  92.149,86    126.556,78
6. Non allou                                             I_     _                 0,00             0
7. Dep6t initial CS                             767.576,26    1.054.173,89
TOTAL               25.500.000  35.021.190,00  25.523.578,79   35.021.134,14     40,67         55,86
Le solde du compte de credit de 25.500.000 DTS s'eleve A 40,61 DTS au 31.12.99. II sera utilise
totalement durant la periode de grAce.
La categorie non allou6e de 1.260.000 DTS a ete affectee a la categorie I A la fin de 1998.
Toutefois, celle-ci accuse par rapport A la repartition initiale, un depassement de 1.413.905 DTS,
tandis que la categorie 2 relative A I'ASP accuse un excedent de 1.634.530 DTS.
30



Ces resultats decoulent du fait que: (i) les projets d'infrastructures - Categorie I - tiennent la
grande part dans les d6penses du FID et (ii) le financement des BE et ONG a Wte impute dans la
pratique dans la Categorie 1, I'Accord de Credit n'etant pas tres explicite sur ce point.
2.5.   Le tableau suivant montre le paiement du Fonds de Contrepartie:
Tableau 4 bis: Allocation PIP FID II
FONDS DE CONTREPARTIE
Allocation                   Mandati
4 874 750                  4 874 750
6 900 000                  6 900 000
10 620 760                 10 620 760
8 503 000                  en cours
30 898 510                 22395 510
2.6.   L'evolution du rapport de performance (Rapport entre les charges recurrentes et le cout
total des projets) a ete satisfaisante de 1996 A 1999, telle qu'elle ressort dans le tableau suivant:
Tableau 5: Evolution annuelle du rapport de performance
Annie     1  1996  1  1997  l  1998  l  1999
Rapport       15,50      9,68    10,83       9,53
Le cofut du fonctionnement du Projet, sauf pour l'annee 1996 (ann6e charniere des Projets FID I et
FID II) reste dans des limites contractuellement raisonnables.
2.7.   La participation des beneficiaires a l'investissement, qui se concretise par des apports en
nature, en travail, en numeraires est une realite. Ces apports sont comptabilis6s et entrent dans la
remuneration des MPE. Le taux de participation a evolue a la hausse sauf pour les sous-projets
d'infrastructures de deblocage.
Le tableau suivant donne la repartition des participations par Direction Regionale.
Tableau 6: Participation des b6nificiaires - Projets EDB FIED II
Apports b6n6ficiaires
requis           rkalis6s       %
DRT           2 101 402 645     2 076 838 332   98,8
DRD             827 647 491      865 893 746  104,6
DRF           2 844 275 775    2 887 877 663  101,5
DRM            1 754 120417     1 733 721 316   98,8
DRA           1 220 500 203     1 190 589 038   97,5
DRU           1 039 735 550      986 116 459   94,8
TOTAL          9 787 682 081     9 741 036 554   99,5
Dans le developpement du Projet, et a travers les performances techniques etfinancieres, le FID
a montre un professionnalisme certain. Comparativement aux realisations du Projet FID I et au
fl des annees, la qualite des travaux s'est amelioree.  C'est une des conditions de la
perennisation des realisations.
31



3. LES IMPACTS
3.1.   L'inventaire exhaustif et l'evaluation ex-post realises en 1999 ont montre que: (i) les
sous-projets finances par le FID repondent A des besoins reels et, dans la grande majorite, A des
besoins prioritaires des populations beneficiaires, (ii) l'implication et la responsabilisation de ces
dernires ne sont pas encore satisfaisantes en ce qui concerne l'appropriation et la perennisation
des realisations. Toujours est-il que des avancees notables ont ete constatees des les annees 1998-
1999 en matiere d'appropriation des sous-projets de par une meilleure implication des
bdneficiaires et des Communes a toutes les phases d'un sous-projet.
3.2.   A la phase actuelle, les realisations ont permis l'amelioration de l'acces a: (i) I'education
primaire (augmentation du nombre d'enfants scolarises, (ii) la sant6 (les medicaments existent,
ainsi que le personnel sanitaire, compte non tenu de la qualification de celui-ci) et (iii) 1'eau
potable (environ 235.000 habitants en ont bendficie).
Le desenclavement d'une centaine de communes rurales a e  rendu possible grace aux pistes
rurales rehabilitees. L'assurance d'une recolte stable et/ou en augmentation a ete constatee dans
les zones ayant b6n6ficid d'amenagements hydro-agricoles.
Les marches ont repondu aux besoins de transactions commerciales des producteurs et vendeurs.
Les points ci-dessus concourent a creer les conditions d'une croissance locale. Les efforts actuels
concourent tous A la mise en place d'associations des beneficiaires, en liaison ou non avec les
Communes (dans les cas ou elles n'existent pas encore) et qui sont chargees d'exploiter les
realisations.
Sur le volet plus immediat de la lutte contre la pauvrete, de 1996 a 1999, le FID a pu cr6er environ
5.000.000 hommes-jour d'emplois temporaires.
3.3.   L'avancee est tres significative en matiere de promotion du secteur privd. II a ete
contracte 1.796 marches avec les B.E. et les MPE.
Au niveau des provinces, le FID a r6ussi A creer un tissu d'entreprises et de bureaux d'etudes, a
meme de repondre pour 1'essentiel aux besoins de construction d'infrastructures de la region.
La transparence des procedures de passation de marche est une reference de la bonne gouvemance
et de la libre concurrence au niveau national et regional.
3.4.   La technique HIMO (Haute Intensitd de Main-d'Oeuvre) dans la construction des pistes
est de plus en plus maltris6e. Elle est benefique en matiere d'emplois et competitive en matiere
de cout.
L'utilisation des mat6riaux locaux est mieux comprise ainsi que la necessite de travaux de qualite.
3.5.   Toutes choses etant egales par ailleurs, le rapport qualite-prix des realisations du FID sont
competitives suivant le rapport de l'audit technique exteme. En moyenne: (i) une salle de classe
coAte 52 millions de FMG, (ii) une salle de centre sanitaire 27 Millions FMG et(iii) un kilometre
de piste 62 millions FMG. Ces couts integrent les dtudes, les travaux et les apports des
beneficiaires.
Tableau 7: Cofit unitaire des projets FED II (Etude - travaux - Apport):
Ecole                 CSB                    Pisne
Salle                 Salle                  Km
DRT                 42 740 000            22 350 000            56 500 000
DRD                 59 200 000            41 700 000            70 800 000
DRF                 44 875 000            23 600 000            57 100 000
DRM                 52 130 000            26 750 000             61 750 000
DRA                 53 950 000            24 500 000            62 850 000
DRU                 59 620 000            25 350 000            63 950 000
TOTAL                52 085 833            27 375 000             62 158 333
32



3.6.   Au 30.09.98, date de son arret, le Programme d'appui aux Activit6s Generatrices de
Revenu (PAGR) a permis de: (i) financer 4.559 credits pour un montant de 7,3 milliards de FMG
et 253 auto-emplois et (ii) creer 26.600 hommes-jour d'emplois temporaires et 389 emplois
pernanents. 94 Agences d'Encadrement ont eu un chiffre d'affaire de 1,2 milliards pour la
gestion des conventions de credit. 240 Agences d'Encadrement ont beneficie de deux series de
formation pour ameliorer leurs competences.
Malgre la modicit6 du couit du programme, celui-ci fut victime de son succes, du fait qu'il ne
cadrait plus avec la politique de micro-fmiance initiee nationalement.
La seule incidence de son arret sur les actions du FID fut la < demission>> des Agences
d'Encadrement et donc une repercussion negative sur le recouvrement des creances.
3.7.   La composante Appui au Secteur Prive (ASP) a conditionne largement l'obtention des
resultats des deux autres composantes (IDB et AGR) du Projet. Le volume et la qualite de la
formation ont eu, depuis 1996, des impacts significatifs sur la qualite des prestations des
partenaires. Qu'il s'agisse des B.E., des MPE ou des Agences d'Encadrement.
Le contexte de travail du FID ne peut etre independant de la situation generale du pays,
notamment en matiere de capacite institutionnelle des Communes et de la disponibilite des
ressources humaines. A l'echelon local, les impacts sont reels, si on prend en compte, a titre
d'exemple, la possibilite reelle de la population a se mobiliser autour d'un projet. Par son
extension, le Projet a riussi a reduire la notion d'Etat Providence: la participation des
beneficiaires a  l'investissement est effective.
Les actions pour la responsabilisation des memes bneficiaires, surtout dans la phase apres
projet, sont connues et sont en cours de concretisation. Le Projet FID III est en fait axe' sur ce
point.
33



4 - EXECUTION DU PROJET
4.1.   Relations avec la Banque Mondiale:
La Banque Mondiale fut un vrai partenaire non seulement financier mais aussi technique.
Les relations, dans le cadre des Accords, ont et caracterisees par leur transparence et la rapidite
des reactions: (i) pour les decaissements sauf pour quelques cas sans grande incidence negative et
(ii) pour les demandes de non objection. De par la permanence du Task Manager a Antananarivo,
des mises au point trimestrielles ont pu etre effectuees.
Dans le cas du FID III, l'implication du FID et du Gouvernement dans la preparation du Projet fut
tres positive. II est fait reference notamment au lancement des projets tests communautaires
finances par les Projets FID II et FID III.
4.2.   Coordination des activites sur le plan national:
Le FID est reconnu comme un composant majeur dans la lutte pour la r6duction de la pauvrete.
Son autonomie d'action et de gestion dans le cadre des Manuels de Procedures est reconnu et
soutenu dans la pratique par le Gouvernement.
La generalisation des protocoles d'action avec les Ministeres a caractere social peut 8tre une
rdponse aux problemes de coordination; toutefois, les ressources humaines peuvent ne pas
correspondre aux besoins, compte tenu de la multiplicit6 des actions A mener.
4.3.   Gestion du Projet:
A la base des resultats du Projet FID II, il faut mentionner la clarte des relations et des attributions
du Conseil d'Administration de l'Association FID et du Directeur General. Ce fut acquis des le
demier trimestre de l'annee 1996.
L'autonomie de la structure et une gestion a caractere priv6 ont et des facteurs decisifs dans la
bonne execution du Projet.
Cette gestion privee a eu comme corollaire le relevement du niveau de competence du personnel
et son adhesion aux objectifs du Projet ainsi que la consideration accord6e a l'efficacit6.
La gestion decentralisee du FID est rendue possible par 1'existence d'un echelon central i meme
de coordonner et de superviser les activit6s et d'instaurer une saine concurrence entre les
Directions Regionales.
A travers un programme de travail annuel, chaque Direction, dans le respect des Manuels des
Procddures, est responsable de la realisation technique de son programme.
Sur un autre plan, la maitrise de l'utilisation du compte special et des sous-comptes regionaux est
totale. D'autant plus que les procedures d'utilisation de ces derniers ont &6 conques par le FID et
entierement approuvees par l'IDA. A signaler que le relevement du plafond du Compte Special A
USD 3.500.000 en janvier 1998 a resolu les problemes de tr6sorerie.
4.4.   Systeme d'information:
A la fin de l'annee 1999 et apres une mise en place de plus de deux annees, le FID disposait enfin
d'un systeme d'information a temps reel et en reseau pour la gestion de ses activites et pour le
suivi-evaluation du Projet.
Le systeme est constitue principalement d'une base de donnees tres large comprenant les
informations sur les activites et des outils permettant d'exploiter ces donn6es et d'6tablir les liens
exacts entre les parties technique et fmanciere des activites.
L'existence du systeme constitue un atout indeniable pour la poursuite et la gestion du projet. II y
a toutefois lieu d'evaluer la performance du systeme et d'apporter les ameliorations utiles au
niveau des reseaux locaux et A distance (vitesse de communication, s6curite d'acces, protection
physique du reseau...).
4.5.   Developpement des Manuels de Proc6dures:
L'ossature des Manuels de Procedures existait depuis le Projet FID I. Ils furent developpes au
cours du Projet FID II, et la collaboration avec les experts de la Banque Mondiale a ete
exemplaire en ce sens.
34



Ayant assimild la maitrise d'ouvrage ddlegue et des procedures d'un Fonds Social, le FID est
actuellement en tres bonne position pour realiser des Projets Communautaires grace a un Manuel
de Proc6dures suffisamment rigoureux et a la mesure des objectifs recherches et surtout grace aux
experiences lancees en 1999 et aux experiences avec les ONG et les Communes.
4.6.   Sur la communication:
Le FID est parmi les Projets les plus credibles et les plus visibles dans le pays. Grace a la
m6diatisation des realisations et a une politique de promotion des meilleurs projets (donc des
meilleurs exemples et des meilleures pratiques) et des meilleurs partenaires.
La communication est utilisee comme un volet majeur de la mobilisation / responsabilisation des
ben6ficiaires et de la perennisation des realisations.
35



5 - LES ACQUIS ET LES LECONS A TIRER
5.1. Le premier atout du FID est son autonomie, acceptee et garantie par le Gouvemement
malgache et la Banque Mondiale.
Dans le m8me ordre d'idees, il a su montrer par ses resultats et sa gestion une certaine idee d'une
bonne gouvemance dans 1'execution d'un Projet. La possession d'un systeme d'information pour
la gestion devrait ameliorer les performances du Projet.
5.2. La participation des b6neficiaires est acquise au niveau des investissements.
Durant le Proj et FID I et au debut du FID 1, si des elus pr6conisaient l'allocation directe du credit
FID aux autorit6s provinciales, actuellement, les Communes, les instances d6partementales
allouent partiellement des credits aux populations locales pour pouvoir r6pondre aux imp6ratifs du
FID.
5.3. Les actions d'appui au secteur prive sont positives.
Des micro et petites entreprises operationnelles existent au niveau des regions, quoique leurs
performances techniques ne soient pas encore ideales .
5.4. Des efforts sont consentis pour diffuser les exp6riences des meilleurs sous-projets, vu sous
l'angle de l'implication des b6n6ficiaires et de la perennisation des r6alisations pour instaurer la
concurrence entre les populations et communes.
La participation est la responsabilisation des populations et communes ne sont pas encore
satisfaisantes. Si la participation des beneficiaires A l'investissement est acquise, I'appropriation
des r6alisations necessite encore des efforts pour la mobilisation des ressources humaines et
financieres.
5.5. L'existence des r6alisations quoique consistante sur le plan national, n'est pas encore
suffisante pour mobiliser les communes les plus excentr6es.
Des efforts sont encore n6cessaires pour toucher les zones handicapees par l'6tat des
infrastructures routieres. A contrario, les zones qui ont d6ja ben6fici6 des investissements FID
connaissent les procedures et les obligations du Projet. En effet, la couverture des d6partements
est totale, celle des Communes l'est a 45%.
5.6. Les exp6riences amassees en matiere de relations avec les Communes sont loin d'8tre
n6gligeables. Il en est de meme en ce qui conceme les ONG.
D'une facon g6nerale, leur potentiel ne peut s'ext6rioriser que par des programmes de formation
et des actions pratiques.
Les projets communautaires - test inities en 1999 sont en ce sens tres instructifs. L'implication et
la mobilisation des beneficiaires a toutes les phases d'un sous-projet sont effectives ainsi que
l'operationnalite de leurs associations.
Toujours est-il qu'au vu des experiences pass6es et r6centes, ta perennisation des realisations peut
etre une realit6 avec l'application des procedures qui se concretise par l'implication des
beneficiaires A toutes les phases d'un sous-projet.
36



COMMENTAIRES DES PARTENAIRES
1. M. REMI, Maire de la Commune Rurale Joffrevile (CSB Joffreville - Antsiranana):
- L'engagement des beneficiaires a participer a la realisation des apports du CSB Joffreville est
un peu lourd. Ce n'est pas au niveau de l'apport qu'on a trouve un probleme mais l'animation
de la population, et cela a entraine un retard au commencement et surtout a la progression de
travail.
- Le Gouvemement n'a pris part a ce projet (CSB Joffreville), selon l'habitude de la population
quand on collabore avec le FID. La plus grande chose qu'on ne peut pas laisser tomber est
l'entretien. La population comprend maintenant les diffic-ultes pour construire. Demain, elle
saura qu'il faut entretenir le CSB pour qu'il soit toujours fonctionnel.
-  A mon avis, on peut compter beaucoup sur la perennisation de cet entretien, du fait que les
membres ont dejA mis un plan d'action a ce sujet.
2. Mme RAZAFIARIZAY Jouishon, Directrice de I'Entreprise MILANTO >> (Antananarivo):
- J'ai pu avoir trois marches pendant cette periode dont un pour le compte de la DRT et deux
pour celui de la DRA. Le dossier pourrait etre mieux mais la concurrence est vraiment dure
compte tenu du nombre important de participants surtout lorsqu'il s'agit de batiment.
- Chaque marche nous rapportait. Et ce b6n6fice aussi modeste qu'il soit (a cause du moins-
disant) nous convient car un chantier FID possede une autonomie financiere et le paient des
factures est presque immediat.
-  Au debut, l'on avait eprouve des difficultes sericuses a chaque fois qu'on repond a des appels
d'offres lances du fait des exigences dont le nombre de pieces demandees ainsi qu'A
l'etablissement des sous-details des prix. C'est seulement apres avoir obtenu le premier
marche qu'on s'etait aperqu de leur necessite et de leur importance. Nous estimons aussi
qu'elles pourront etre a l'origine de la disparition de concurrents peu serieux. En general,
cette methode nous a beaucoup apporte.
3. M. RAYMOND Claude, Co-g6rant de I'Entreprise o ORIMBATO >> (Antananarivo):
-  Mon resultat avec le FID est bon. J'ai eu 1 con)trats dont 9 passes a Antananarivo et les 3
restants a Toliara.
-  Les resultats sont positifs en general et varient avec le temps et la localite des sous-projets.
- Le FID a non sculement contribu6 au developpement de mon entreprise mais a permis
egalement d'6toffer les connaissances techniques de notre personnel. Sur le plan social, le
FID nous a permis de creer des emplois temporaires. Ccci est d'une importance majeure
surtout pour les zones ou nous travaillons.
37



4. M. ANDRIAMIHAJA Pierre, Entreprise ECOMET (Malhajanga':
-  Je felicite le FID d'avoir pu, depuis 1995, faire la decentralisation; c'est un grand avantage
pour les MPE des provinces de pouvoir soumissionrier dans leur region. Notre souhait est que
cette decentralisation soit appliquee au niveau des rcgions.
-  Le probleme dans le secteur BTP est qu'il n'y a pas encore suffisamment de techniciens
dignes de ce nom sur le marche du travail. Notre souhait: le FID doit renforcer les formations
des entreprises.
- Le FID doit considerer I'anciennet6 des PME pr6sel.ectionnees qui ont toujours travaill6 avec
lui :
* allegement du dossier de preselection (exemple: rie:n que le NIF et la Carte
professionnelle)
* certificat de bonne relation avec le FID
- Concemant l'apport des beneficiaires en numeraire, la proce(lure administrative des virements
au niveau des CLD est trop lente d'ofi incidence financiere au niveau de la tresorerie des
PME.
- L'application stricte des regles de jeu pour promouvoir le professionnalisme (caution de
bonne execution, penalite de retard) est tres appreciee.
5. M. FAROUK, Maire de la Commune de Masomeloka (Faritany Toamasina):
-  La Commune Rurale de Masomeloka a travaiIle avec le FID en 1999 dans le cadre de la
construction du Marche Masomeloka.
-  Dans l'ensemble, nous entretenons de bonnes relations avec le FID. Mais nous deplorons
toutefois les difficultes de communications qui regnent dans notre fivondronana qui sont
telles que nous avons du mal A communiquer avec le FID.
-  La mairie de Masomeloka est satisfaite dans la mesure oii nous avons e  servis pour la
construction d'un premier lot. Malheureusement, A cause des difficult6s de communication
que j'ai evoquees tout A l'heure, et des problemes de mobilisation du fokonolona, nous
n'avons pas pu terminer A temps nos apports pour le 2"m' lot. Pour ces raisons, le FID a differe
la realisation de notre 21me lot.
-  Ds le debut du projet, nous avons mis en place un comite provisoire qui a ete charge de la
surveillance des apports. Nous n'avons pas encore occupe les lieux pour l'instant, car on
attend la reception provisoire. Mais c'est le meme comite qui va sensibiliser les utilisateurs et
collecter le fonds d'entretien. Au niveau de la commune, comme nous pensons instituer des
tickets pour chaque jour de marche, nous avons l'intention dl'inclure dans notre budget 2000
un montant destine a l'entretien du marche.
6. M. LAIMISONDROTRA Thomas, Maire de Beforona (Faritany Toamasina):
-  Nous avons ete longtemps prives d'eau potable A Beforona. Depuis decembre 1999, grace au
FID, le probleme a e  resolu. Nous notons cependant que lorsque les 15 bomes fontaines et
le lavoir fonctionnent en meme temps, le debit d'eau n'est pas suffisant. Le bureau d'etudes
nous a explique qu'il faut organiser gestion de l'eau au niveau des << komitin-drano >> (comite
de l'eau) que nous avons mis en place pour que toute le monde puisse bien en profiter.
38



- Pour l'instant, nous avons des << komitin-drano >> (comite de l'eau) au niveau de chaque borne
fontaine. Mais apres discussion avec le FID et le bureau d'etudes, nous sommes convaincus
que ces comites provisoires, pour etre efficaces et 6coutes par tous les usagers, doivent etre
ramenes au sein d'une association plus formelle que nous sommes en train de mettre en place
avec le bureau d'etudes. Surtout, ces comites on besoin d'etre renforces car certaines de nos
bornes fontaines se trouvent au bord de la route et font l'objet d'acte de vandalisme de la part
des gens qui passent.
7. M. RABAKO Justin, President Cellule de Projet (PC College Rainisoalambo - Fenerive Est)
(Faritany Toamasina):
- Nous avons de bonnes relations avec le FID. Surtout, dans le cadre du projet communautaire,
nous avons apprecie que le FID nous ait accorde sa confiance et permis a la cellule de gerer
totalement le projet. Nous sommes egalement reconnaissants a l'equipe du FID d'avoir
consacre du temps pour notre propre formation dans la gestion du projet.
- Pour notre cellule, la collaboration avec le FID dans le cadre du projet communautaire a ete
enrichissante, car il y a eu beaucoup de choses nouvelles que nous avions decouvertes:
consultation de partenaires, passation de march6, suivi de travaux, etc... Ceci etant, le FID a
ete trop ferme au niveau des apports de 20% et du temps imparti pour leur realisation.
- Depuis quelques mois, nous mettons de l'argent de c6te pour constituer notre fonds
d'entretien. Notre communaute a deja l'habitude de prendre en charge 1'entretien et la
maintenance de son patrimoine.
- Si le FID pense developper les projets communautaires, nous souhaitons que les apports de
20% exiges avant projet soient reduits car il est difficile de rassembler ces apports. Nous
demandons egalement a ce que tous les volets de formation dispenses par le FID soient
renforces et que la cellule soit bien formee avant le demarrage des travaux.
39






MAP SECTION






IBRD 20035R1
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~ ~       ~              ~            ~            ~           1
MADAGASCAR:
,,,,~~~~ooo   . eswv, .vf                                                             ~6.6-,.,.,, , :,- :,-.....  ::  
fogp/te@zmrries qccgwribt';  ' ', '" ,ic''. i.4..      |tO'                                           NTSIRA    NANbl|
P.-
,  j--,-,_,-_, ft.terroJ.        eu4h o6                                                                                             foonhto
dow s      -ifo
i,___ J 4           -                                                                      If' A m o ob. Ai \,                                       I h
.-                           J .          ~~~~~~M A H A J ANGA                 
"i4,.      P>rm                              /               W t,   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Brg 4Adimn      MondritsoroI
,cigig              M oroo o       eO    nRooroeOi  
.          -         .\     '   Atsc vo i    'ANTANANARIVO-,                             j   ,j!                     :'        :
' > + t 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~didYa 'e,orv  bt 
"~~~~~~~~~~.Bolrp                                            '                 -            icororono:no        noronan -bAongoAd i  
]   .  ) '  ZsSrSAnrAntsireo 1
'' "    '     mbthnnrooo   mbositror    .,
FIAN A NAAN R SOA;
0 ~ ~~~        ~~~~ -                                .4...-                    ArSoohrdhot  o               -              
-  Anrboto~~~~~,nondrohono0 ~ ~ ~ *  Amoslr     g  c
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ky~             BeudOmrocoTNZNAho                                                                                      AI
-.               .                            ~             Anr.b o5B kio   .  4 /  -,
"I                                                                                                              OA.R~TSA 
,~~ ~~~~~~ ~  W d J rt g                                                                       dcfp.M,>O>;,,,,,,;,,   ,,   < J    k, '~V~E~  3e  ,gvA A<A         .
DECEMBER 1 99



