Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14489-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
AUGUST 15, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit         =       Malagasy Franc (FMG)
U.S. $ I              =       FMG 4300 May 1995
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Januaty I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPA                       Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public dc Antanianarivo
EMSAP/PASAGE                  Economic Management and Social Action Project (Projet des . Ilions
Sociales et Appui az la Gestion Ecoioinique)
EIRR                          Economic Internal Rate of Return
FID                           Social Fund (Fonds dIntervention pour le Developpeneni)
IAPSO/UNDP                    Interagency Procurement Services Office/ United Nations
Development Program
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
IGA                           Income Generating Activities
LCB                           Local Competitive Bidding
M&E                           Monitoring and Evaluation
MiS                           Management Information System
NGO                           Non Governmental Organization (Organisation .Von Gouvernmenetale)
SECALINE                      Food Security and Nutrition Project (Scurite A limentaire et VAutrition
Elargie)
UNICEF                        United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission composed of Mmes/Messrs. Qaiser Khan
(Mission Leader and Human Resource Economist), Paul Geli (Consultant/Implementation Specialist),
Michele Lioy (EEC Specialist), and Alf Persson (Consultant/MIS Specialist). Ms. Eileen Murray is the
Division Implementation Specialist assigned to the Project. Ms. Hilda Emeruwa-Creppy prepared the
Cost-tables. Ms. Helena Ribe is the Lead Advisor while Ms. Lynne Sherburne-Benz is the Peer Reviewer.
Mr. Andrew Rogerson is the Department Director, Mr. David Berk is the managing Division Chief and
Mr. Padmanabha Hari Prasad is the Department Operations Advisor. This project was processed under
accelerated procedures with support from Mr. Mahmood Ayub, Senior Operations Adviser, Africa Region.
Ms. Hilda Emeruwa-Creppy and Ms. Anne Anglio also assisted with report production.



MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
CONTENTS
Executive Summary ......................................................... iii
L. BACKGROUND ....                                                                        1
A. INTRODUCTION .....1
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS .....1
C. GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS ....                                                   2
D. BANK EEXPERIENCE ....                                                                  3
E. ROLE OF NGOs ....                                                                      4
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ....                                                     4
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .....S
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ....                                                     5
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....                                                               5
1. General Approach ....                                                                5
2. Implementation Modalities ....                                                       6
3. Sub-Project Selection Criteria ....                                                  7
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ....                                                       7
1. Costs .......7
2. Financing ....                                                                       9
3. Sustainability and Consistency with Sectoral Approaches ....                        10
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....  11
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION .....11
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT .....1.1
1I National Level .1).I
2. Regional Level .. 13
3. Project Implementation Manual FID . s Manual of Procedures.....  14
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION .....  14
1. Structure .. 14
2. Project Monitoring Indicators ..I S
D. PROCUREMENT .. 16
E. DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ............................................................................................ 20
4. BENEFITS, RISKS, BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATIQN, ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........                                                            24
A. BENEFITS ...........                                                                  24
B. RISKS ............24
C. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ...........                                                    25
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ...........                                                     25
E. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........                                                         25
S. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION .28



TEXT TABLES
TABLE 2. 1:  MODALITIES OF EXECUTION  FOR FID   SUB-PROJECTS ................................................................6
TABLE 2.2:  PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY .............................................................................8
TABLE 2.3:  PROJECT COST  SUMMARY ............................................................................8
TABLE 2.4:  FINANCING  PLAN  BY  DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY ......................................................................9
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT MONITORING  INDICATORS ............................................................................                                               16
TABLE 3.2:  SUMMARY  OF PROPOSED  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS  .....................                                                      ................................. 17
TABLE 3.3: IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE ...........................................................................                                                     20
TABLE 3.4: DISBURSEMENT  CATEGORIES ...........................................................................                                                     21
ANNEXES
ANNEX  1: DECLARATION  OF  POLICY  FOR POVERTY  ALLEVIATONN  ................................                                           .............................. 30
ANNEX II: DESCRIPTIONOFTHESOCIALFUND(FoNDSDIATERvEAIONPOURL DEELOPPEMEKTOR FID)..33
ANNEX  III: PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASPECTS ...........................................................................                                                  38
ANNEX  IV: PROJECT MONITORING  AND  EVALUATION ............................................................................     40
ANNEX  V: ESTIMATED  DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE ...........................................................................                                                42
ANNEX  VI: SUPERVISION  PLAN ..............................................................................................3................ 43
ANNEX VII: LIST OF DOCUMENTS ......................                                                                                                                 46
ANNEX VIII: DETAILED TABLES                                               ..................... 47



MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:          Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID)
Poverty:              Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:        SDR 25.5 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity
Commitment Fee        0.50% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Project Description:    To complement policy efforts aimed at restoring employment
gerenerating economic growth, the project objectives are to
alleviate poverty and support community development through
partnership with NGO and beneficiary communities. This will
be done using the successful approach of the ongoing
SECALINE project, and no change in emphasis is expected.
The proposed project would provide supplemental financing to
the Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID), a non-
profit association that finances construction and rehabilitation
of basic infrastructure, income-generating activities and private
sector support programs. FID has been active in the provinces
of Antananarivo and Toliary since 1993 and has just started
operations in the country's remaining four provinces
(Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga and Toamasina). FID
has been funded by the SECALINE project but, with the
expansion of FID to all of Madagascar and the faster than
expected pace of execution, the resources available to FID
under the ongoing project are expected to be committed by
early 1996. During the project period it is estimated that FID
will help to: (a) create about 5 million person-days of
temporary employment on infrastructure projects; (b) develop
health and education facilities; (c) develop 1,000 kilometers of
farm-to-market roads;  (c) provide protection for 16,000
hectares threatened by soil erosion; (d) develop 30,000 hectares



ii
of arable land; (e) finance 1,200 contracts with micro and small
enterprises as well as another 200 with artisans and skilled daily
workers; and (f) create approximately 2,700 permanent jobs.
These estimates are tentative as FID will be demand-driven and
it is difficult to predict in advance the distribution among
various types of projects.
Financing Plan:       IDA USS40.0 million, Beneficiary Communities US$1.8 million
and Government US$3.6 million.
Economic Rate of      Not Applicable. However to assure that FID finances priority
Return                and  environmentally  sound  sub-projects, economic  and
environmental analyses will be applied to sub-projects financed
by FID whenever necessary.
Map:                  IBRD 20035R]



MADAGASCAR
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   With a GDP per capita of US$235, unequally distributed, Madagascar is a striking
example of unfulfilled economic potential. It has experienced two decades of economic
decline during which per capita GDP plummeted by 40%. Yet, the country has abundant
resources consisting of cheap and trainable labor as well as a wide variety of soils,
climates and natural resources that include unique flora and fauna. The proportion of the
population living below the poverty line has increased dramatically since the early 1970's
and most indicators point to a sharp heightening of income inequality.
1.2   Madagascar is the world's fourth largest island, with a land area of 587,000 square
kilometers and a population of 12 million growing at 3% per year. Agriculture accounts
for a third of GDP and 60% of export earnings. It also provides the main source of
income for 80% of the population. The industrial sector, which accounts for only 14% of
GDP is undergoing a major transformation following policy reforms introduced in the
mid-to-late 1980s. Formerly state-dominated and inward-looking, the sector is becoming
increasingly private-owned and export-oriented. Despite its economic troubles,
Madagascar has made a successful and peaceful transition from an authoritarian state to a
pluralistic democracy, largely due to the consensus ethics of the Malagasy society;
however, the same search for consensus (this time among members of the ruling coalition)
has yielded a political stalemate impeding economic policy-making. Although the
Government has taken some courageous steps, lack of prudent fiscal management served
to erase much of the potential economic gain associated with floating the currency, by
producing rapid inflation.
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS
1.3   Poverty has been increasing steadily in Madagascar since the early 1960s. Using a
fairly ungenerous poverty line based on 90% of the FAO-recommended daily caloric
intake (plus an allowance for non-food expenditures), it is estimated that almost 54% of
the population was living below the poverty line in 1993. Using the full FAO
recommendation as the base for the poverty line, the proportion living in poverty increases
dramatically. It is estimated that 92% of the poor live in rural areas. The Government
includes poverty reduction as a pillar of its development strategy and has worked in close
partnership with the Bank on the draft Madagascar Poverty Assessment. Based on the
report's findings, the Government plans to develop a poverty strategy using a



Madagascar: Social Fund 11 Project -StaffAppraisal                  2
participatory process. The poverty assessment recommends a rural-based strategy
focusing on labor-intensive development. The Government has recently made some
moves in that direction primarily through devaluation of the Malagasy Franc, which has
improved the rural-urban terms of trade and should encourage agriculture, the sole
livelihood of the majority of the poor.
1.4   Even though Madagascar spends proportionately little on non-productive areas
such as defense, the allocation of public resources towards pressing social needs such as
health and education has been less than impressive. The quality of basic education and
health services has declined sharply: Madagascar is one of the few countries in the
developing world where the younger generation is likely to have a worse educational
attainment than that of its parents. Repeater and dropout rates are exceedingly high at the
primary level, with fewer than one in three children completing the five year cycle. The
percentage of children passing the terminal examinations for each cycle is less than 50%.
The gross enrollment ratio in primary schools fell from 142% to 95% between 1980 and
1992, and in junior secondary schools, from 30% to 20% over the same period. Parents
are demonstrating their dissatisfaction with the public education system by withdrawing
their children from public schools, either placing them in private schools if able to afford
them or altogether eschewing formal schooling, in reaction to the poor quality of the state
schools.
1.5   The public health system is also in disarray: most facilities lack medicines and other
medical materials even though they generally have personnel with an acceptable level of
training. The infant mortality rate is 107 in rural areas and 75 in urban areas.
Vaccination coverage of children 3 to 60 months is 36%. Between 45% and 49% of
children are malnourished when measured as two standard deviations below the norm
(height for age or weight for age). The total fertility rate was estimated to be 6.1 in 1992
(3.8 in urban areas).
1.6   Housing conditions are poor, with 53% of households living in a single room and
poor households crowded in at the rate of 6 persons per room. Over 60% of households
obtain their water from easily pollutable sources such as lakes, rivers and ponds while
12.5% percent obtain water from public taps. Sixty percent of households have no sanitary
equipment and another 31% use traditional latrines. Even in urban areas 27% of the
population have no sanitation equipment (compared to 76% in rural areas).
C. GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS
1.7   The Government has long stated that poverty reduction is a cornerstone of its
agenda, but action to date has been minor, either to address poverty directly or to address
the conditions leading to pervasive poverty. As mentioned earlier, devaluation of the
Malagasy Franc (FMG) has improved the rural terms of trade and will help reduce poverty
since 92% of the poor live in rural areas. The Government is moving towards more liberal
economic policies as a basis for agreements with the IMF and the World Bank. While
these changes should foster sustainable, poverty-reducing growth in the long



3                                                Chapter 1: Background
run, the immediate needs of the country's widespread and rising poverty requires
attention. The Government has requested donor support for a social safety net including
labor-intensive works, targeted nutrition programs and support for workers rendered
jobless by public sector restructuring. The proposed project is part of these poverty
alleviation efforts which will also be supported by the extension of the existing AGETIPA
(Urban Works Development Agency) project into municipalities outside Antananarivo.
These activities will need to be accompanied by a major re-allocation of public
expenditures in favor of priority sectors such as basic human resource development. .
The process of reallocating public expenditure allocations in favor of basic human
resource development has already started in the context of dialogue with the Bank and the
IMF on macroeconomic policies.
D. BANK EXPERIENCE
1.8   The first major poverty program was financed through the Economic Management
and Social Action Project (PASAGE) in the late 1980s and supported by IDA and other
donors. Other donors such as UNICEF have undertaken anti-poverty activities. This
project is based on the successful experience of Food Security and Nutrition Project
(Credit 2474-MAG). IDA approved the Food Security and Nutrition (SECALINE)
Project in 1993 to address poverty, food insecurity and malnutrition. The SECALINE
project is an example of successful partnership with NGOs, communities and government
authorities aimed at reducing poverty and malnutrition. The proposed project provides
additional funding for a successful on-going project and no significant changes in approach
are proposed. Nevertheless, there are some lessons to be drawn from the experience of
the on-going project. The main difficulty has been in the area of micro-enterprise
development sub-projects in marketing and cash-flow management. Some rural roads
financed by FID have not been good enough during the rainy season. New construction
techniques and methods are being analyzed in collaboration with the AGETIPA (Urban
Works) and PREFTEC (Vocational and Technical Training ) projects to resolve this.
Also, a part of the quality problem is attributable to the fact that FID includes in its overall
mandate, the development new small and micro-enterprises and these businesses often win
FID financed contracts. Revisions to the manual of procedures are under-way to reflect
the experience of the past eighteen months. These revisions cover details from how
improve income generating projects to how provide better quality roads, etc., while at the
same time preserving FID's micro-enterprise development role. A revised manual of
procedures will be a dated covenant in the credit agreement. The on-going project
demonstrates that focusing on the beneficiary community and being demand-driven helps
make this kind of project successful. Other ingredients of success include: (a)
involvement of beneficiaries at all stages; (b) widely attended regional launch workshops
involving people ranging from Cabinet Ministers and NGOs to poor peasants, which
helped increase borrower ownership; (c) a decisive executive head who recruited
competent staff, and after giving them responsibilities and targets, left them to work on
their own (monitoring to see that they were meeting agreed outcomes); and (d) setting up



Madagascar: Social Fund ! Project -StaffAppraisal                  4
FID under private sector rules and staffing it with dynamic and competent managers.
These ingredients are expected to be maintained in the future.
E. ROLE OF NGOs
1.9   One of the major objectives of the Third Republic is to restore respect for the
state, which has largely been eroded over the past two decades, in part due to the
economic and social policy failures described earlier. Currently, NGOs (including Church
organizations) are the only organizations which appear to have helped the poor and earned
their respect. Thus, NGOs have a key role to play in anti-poverty efforts, well
demonstrated in the ongoing SECALINE project. The project's strong and productive
partnerships with NGOs is expected to continue into the future.
1.10  The proposed project expects to place a heavy reliance on NGOs. Bank missions
have organized focus group sessions with NGOs in different parts of Madagascar and
found them to have a strong interest in the project. Further, a large pool of NGO projects
appears in need of funding
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.11  Project coherently set in ESW: The Proposed project has been developed in
parallel with the macroeconomic adjustment process and its meant to help the poorest
Malagasy during the adjustment process. This type of project has been proposed in
several Bank country economic and sector reports including Madagascar - Economic
Strategy Note, Madagascar - Poverty Assessment (in preparation) and Madagascar -
Towards a Food Security Strategy.
1.12  Project Coherently set in Country Assistance Strategy: Addressing poverty is
one of the cornerstones of the Bank Group's County Assistance Strategy (GAS) which
was discussed by the Board on July 18. 1994. The strategy includes creating the
conditions for growth by creating the appropriate policy environment and by investing in
poverty reducing/ growth enhancing areas such as human resources and infrastructure.
The proposed project is mentioned in the CAS as a critical supplement to the overall
policy thrust (para. 29 of the CAS). IDA involvement in the ongoing successful social
fund (FID) has shown that IDA can play a key role in efforts that combine poverty
alleviation and development. The proposed project represents an extension of that role
and is an important vehicle for the increased involvement of NGOs in IDA financed
projects in Madagascar. The proposed project also complements IDA's efforts in
education, health, infrastructure and private sector development. In view of the high
levels of poverty identified in Madagascar by the on-going poverty assessment, this project
is essential. Other donors have expressed interest and the Government has considered
using FID as a possible vehicle for its own financed poverty programs without external
funding.



2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
2.1   Madagascar needs to create the conditions for sustainable growth by removing the
constraints to intemationally competitive private sector led development and by investing
in growth enhancing/ poverty reducing areas such as physical infrastructure and human
resources. Given the high level of poverty, this approach needs to be combined with
activities targeted to the poor. The proposed project's objectives are to alleviate poverty
and support community development through partnership with NGOs and beneficiary
communities. This will be done using the successful approach of the SECALINE project,
and no change in emphasis is proposed.
2.2   The proposed project would provide supplemental financing to the Fonds
d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID), which has been active in the provinces of
Antananarivo and Toliary since 1993 and has just started operations in the remaining four
provinces of Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga and Toamasina. FID has been funded
by the SECALINE project but, with the expansion of FID to all of Madagascar and the
faster than expected pace of execution, the resources available to FID under the ongoing
project are expected to be committed by early 1996.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. General Approach
2.3   The proposed project will support the extension of FID's activities from two to all
six of the country's provinces and inject additional resources for the original two. FID is a
non-profit association for public service (une association a but non lucratif reconnue
d'interet public) headquartered in Antananarivo, the capital, with regional offices in the
provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary. New regional offices are being set up in
Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga and Toamasina. FID finances sub-projects at the
request of communities, sometimes in partnership with NGOs throughout Madagascar.
Once the newly created decentralized elected structures of Government are in place, FID
would work closely with them and help them with infrastructure development. Demand
for FID financing is substantial throughout the country. Annual work-plans will be
prepared to allocate more funds to areas with more poverty as shown in the Poverty
Assessment. Should demand for financing exceed supply, priority will be given to the
poorest communities. The Government will continue to provide IDA funds to FID on a
grant basis.
2. Quantitative Analysis of Alternative Designs
2.4   The project provides supplemental funding for the highly successful Madagascar
Social Fund (Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement or FID). The on-going project



Madagascar: Social Fund 11 Project - StaffAppraisal Report                                 6
experience has been evaluated by independent external and national experts who have
carried out both quantitative and qualitative assessments. The recommendations from
these assessments have been integrated into the proposed design. The recommendations
include the necessity to train micro-enterprises and small enterprises (which execute sub-
projects) so that they can improve the quality of their work and the need to expand the
proportion of sustainable income generating activities (IGA). In order to increase IGA
sub-projects, some experimental projects are being undertaken to discover the best way to
expand IGA sub-projects. The results from all of these are to be integrated into the social
fund's procedures manual by June 30, 1996 (this is a dated covenant in the credit
agreement).
3. Implementation Modalities
2.5     FID finances construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, income-
generating activities and private sector support programs, including the development of
grass-roots community groups and local NGOs. The maximum amount of FID financing
or grant for a project is US$50,000 equivalent, with the exception of transport
infrastructure projects (rural roads, bridges, etc.) for which the maximum is US$100,000.
FID does not finance recurrent activities or projects that: are of an emergency nature;
already receive funding from other sources; have been eliminated from government or
local authorities' investment programs; may have a negative impact on the environment;
and are too sophisticated or heavily mechanized. Through FID, the proposed project will
create employment; develop health and education facilities; help farmers by building farm-
to-market roads, protecting land against soil erosion and developing arable land; and
promote private sector activity, particularly for micro and small enterprises. Year-by-year
qualitative targets are shown in Table 3. 1.
Table 2.1: Modalities of Execution for FID Sub-Projects
Size of Sub-Project  | Role of Community  Role of NGO (if      Role of
___ __ ___ __ applicable)   Consultino Firm   Role of FID
under US$7,500     Identifies and maintains    Helps Community                Appraises, finances
after completion      prepare proposal.                   and makes spot
____________   ______________   Executes Works if any.      check.
From US$7,500 to    Identifies and maintains    Helps Community               Appraises, finances
US$30,000 (Income   after completion      prepare proposal and                and makes spot
Generating Projects)                      works as a partner in               check. In case of
making the IGA                      revolving credit funds
successful. Manages                 assures that
revolving fund for                 repayment takes
credit if applicable.               plae.
Conducts bidding for
equipment if cost Is
above US$7,500.
From US$7,500 to    Identifies and maintains    Helps Community  Designs and  Apprases, fimances
US$30,000 (Civil   after completion       prepare proposal. and   supervimses  and conducts bidding
Works Projects)                           to assure that tsks  works          for consultants and
are carried out.                    works.
Above $30,000      Identifies and maintains    Helps Community  Designs and   Appraisos, finances
after completion      prepare proposal. and   superises    and conducts bidding
to assure that tasks  works         for goods. consulbrt
I________   I________   are carried out.                    and works.



7                                             Chapter 2: The Proposed Project
2.6   The modalities of implementation vary, depending on the types and costs of
projects. The NGOs, local grassroots groups and communities requesting funding for
income-generating activities, private sector support programs and small infrastructure
projects (costing less than $7,500), are responsible for implementation and can enter into
contracts, if required, with consultants, artisans, small enterprises and suppliers. Their
rights and responsibilities as operators (pertaining to the schedule of disbursement of the
grant, their counterpart contribution, if any, and the required procurement procedures that
they have to follow) are clearly defined in their contract with FID (protocole d'accord).
For all such projects, FID has only a financing and monitoring role. For all other
infrastructure projects, the FID is 'Maitre d'Ouvrage Delegue", and contracts with micro,
small and medium scale enterprises for the works. The FID may also contract with
"operators", such as NGOs, technical assistance projects and regional and local units of
technical ministries to act as "Maitre d'Oeuvre"; however, for infrastructure projects
costing more than US$30,000 equivalent for which no operators can be identified, the FID
uses local consultants as "Maitre d'Oeuvre". FID provides grants only and is not a lending
agency. However, for income-generating activities, the operator has to set up and manage
a credit scheme (see below) for all investments benefiting individuals and households, in
order to have a revolving fund and ensure the sustainability of the activities and programs.
4. Sub-Project Selection Criteria
2.7   The criteria for sub-project selection vary by type of sub-project. Full details are
provided in Part 5 of the Project Implementation Plan. Priority is given to poorer areas
(but without sacrificing project quality) community participation will be necessary and all
sub-projects need to demonstrate community support by incorporating some contribution
which varies according to the sub-project type. Furthermore, for productive sector sub-
projects some economic analysis is required. For example, in the case of transport
infrastructure, the analysis is based on traffic flows. Projects such as roads also need an
environmental assessment as do environmental protection projects such as reforestation
and erosion control. While FID would not be a financial intermediary, in the case of
income generating activities, beneficiaries would be required to reimburse funds provided
to them for equipment and working capital (training would be a grant) at market interest
rates. These repayments would flow through FID (to assure that repayment takes place)
and back to a community fund for other such activities. The modalities of the credit
schemes are being reviewed as part of the overall review of FID operating procedures and,
assurances will be sought that this review will be completed by June 30, 1996.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING
1. Costs
2.8   The project will be implemented over a four-year period, i.e. commitments to
finance FID sub-projects are expected to be exhausted over this period though
disbursements on committed funds may continue longer. Total costs for the proposed
project are estimated at US$45.4 million. Base costs are estimated at US$40.2 million



Madagascar: Social Fund 11 Project - StaffAppraisal Report                         8
equivalent and contingencies amount to US$5.2 million equivalent. In addition, taxes
amount to US$ 2.5 million and import duties amount to US$ 1.0 million (not included in
project costs above). Foreign exchange costs account for US$2.1 million or 5 percent of
total project costs. Project costs by category of expenditure are summarized in Table 2.2
below and detailed cost tables are provided in Annex V.
2.9    Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies are estimated to amount to
US$ 4.0 million or 10 % of total base costs. Price contingencies have been estimated at
3% per annum for intemational costs. Domestic inflation is set at 10% up to
effectiveness (expected early in 1996), 15% for 1996, and 10% for the years thereafler.
Since Madagascar is on a floating exchange rate regime, the exchange rate of the FMG to
the US$ is expected to depreciate at a rate equal to the difference between domestic and
international inflation.
Table 2.2: Project Costs Summary
(in USS millions)
%       % Total
Foreign     Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange    Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                               0.0      0.4     0.4        95           1
B. Vehicles                                 -       0.7     0.7       100           2
C. FID Projects                           31.8        -    31.8         -          79
D. FID Sub-projects Consultants           3.1        -      3.1         -           8
E. TA, Training, Studies & Audits          1.3      0.3     1.6        20           4
Total Investrent Costs                      362       1.4    37.6         4          94
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Costs             2.6        -     2.6         -           6
Total Recurrent Costs                       2.6        -      2.6         -           6
38.8      1.4    40.2         4         100
Physical Contingencies                    3.9       0.1     4.0         4          10
Price Contingencies                        1.0      0.2     1.2        15           3
43.7      1.7    45.4         4         113
Figures may not add up due to rounding
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
2.10   Base cost estimates for all items are based on the recent experience of the ongoing
project. Local salaries and travel allowances are based on existing rates used by FID.
Project costs by province are shown in Table 2.3. Antananarivo accounts for 23% of
costs, Toliary for 15%, Toamasina for 15%, Fiananarantsoa for 19%, Mahajanga for 13%
and Antsiranana for 12%. The regional allocations are based on the regional variation in
population and poverty.



9                                                            Chapter 2: The Proposed Project
Table 2.3: Project Cost Summary
(in USS millions)
%         % Total
Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange         Costs
Executive Directorate                               1.3       0.3        1.6           19           4
Regional Directorate(Antananarivo)                  9.0       0.2        9.2            2          23
Regional Directorate (Toliary)                      5.7       0.2        5.9            4          15
Regional Directorate(Toamasina)                     5.7       0.2        5.8            3          15
Regional Directorate(Mahajunga)                     5.0       0.2        5.2            4          13
Regional Directorate (Fianarantsoa)                 7.5       0.2        7.7            2          19
Regional Directorate (Antsiranana)                  4.5       0.1        4.7            3          12
38.8      1.4       40.2            4         100
Physical Contingencies                              3.9       0.1        4.0            4          10
Price Contingencies                                 1.0       0.2        1.2           15           3
43.7      1.7       45.4            4         113
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
2.11   Incremental Recurrent Costs: During the project, incremental recurrent costs
will average $512,000 per year for a total of US$2.6 million without contingencies. The
long-run recurrent cost impact of the project will be minimized because: FID projects will
support (a) development of sustainable income-earning opportunities; (b) infrastructure
rehabilitation as a priority over new infrastructure; and (c) new infrastructure only when
community groups have demonstrated their willingness to organize maintenance.
2. Financing
2.12 Of the total project cost of US$45.4 million, IDA would finance US$40.0 million.
The Government expects to contribute about US$3.6 million and beneficiaries US$1.8
million. The IDA share at 88% is lower than many other projects in Madagascar and is
lower than all other social sector projects. Other donors have also expressed interest in
co-financing and FID is structured to receive financing from various donors.
Table 2.4: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
(US S millions)
IDA           Beneficlaries    The Govenmnt          Total              For.
Exch.    Local
Amount  %           Amount %           Amount %           Amount  %        Costs    Cood
1. FID Projects                  85.0          1.8  5.0           3.6 10.0          36.0  79.2       0.0       35.9
2. FID Sub-Projects        3.5  100.0            -   -              -   -            3.5  7.7          -        3.5
Consuftants
3. TA. Traings,            1.6  100.0            -   -            0.0    -           1.6  3.6        0.3         1.3
Studies, &
Audits
4. Equip., Veh.,           1.4  100.0            -                0.0    -           1.4  3.0        1.4        0.0
Fumi. & other
materials
5. Incremental             2.9  100.0            -   -              -   -            2.9  6.4          -        2.9
Recurrent Costs
Total                    40.0   88.1           1.8  4.0           3.6  7.9          45.4 100.0       1.7       43.7
Source: Bank Staff Estimates



Madagascar: Social Fund IH Project - StaffAppraisal Report             10
3. Sustainability and Consistency with Sectoral Approaches
2.13   Sustainability. Even though IDA has so far been the main donor, other donors
have expressed interest in financing FID. The Government is also committed to a major
social safety net program financed out of its own budget resources and is considering
using FID for its implementation. FID contributes to sustainable local development by
supporting projects of greatest interest to the communities. This community interest is
demonstrated by their own contributions which can range up to 30% for some sub-
projects. The income-generating activities component includes a loan fund (financed
initially by a FID grant) which is regenerated regularly for use within the respective
community as previous borrowers reimburse this community based loan fund. While the
social fund itself is not sustainable in the long run without extemal support, it does
support the sustainable development of communities, in particular by helping build local
capacity to prepare and execute development projects, for example, at the NGO and
micro-enterprises level.
2.14  In addition, under the project FID would be encouraged to reinforce fiscal
discipline and reward initiatives of local community authorities in a decentralized context.
A Bank supported study on municipal financing will, among other things, examine the
possibility of a partnership between local Governments and FID in the development of
local infrastructure. The recommendations of that study conceming the role of FID will
be included in the mid-term review. Any recommendations which are immediately
applicable would be reflected in FID's manual of procedures.
2.15  Consistency with Sectoral Approaches. FID's activities will have implication
for various sectors such as transport, water supply and agriculture. In so far as FID: (a)
remains demand based; (b) works closely with the newly elected local Governments; and
(c) focuses on the smallest projects, it can avoid duplication of effort. FID will also need
to work closely with sectoral Ministries so that FID's interventions can be placed in the
light of overall sectoral strategy. FID's regional advisory boards, which include local
Government representatives as well as regional technical directors of national ministries,
has an important role to play in this area.
2.16  Fiscal Impact. The project is part of an overall package meant to help the poorer
sections of the country's population survive the current difficult period until sustained
growth reduces poverty. Government contributions are expected to be US$ 1.1 million per
year which is a very small proportion of the budget. The long term fiscal impact is
expected to be low as FID should be phased out as poverty is reduced. Also, beneficiary
contributions (sometimes as high as 30%) are required for all sub-projects to ensure
ownership and sustainability.



3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.1   As an accompanying measure to the currency devaluation, the Government
requested that the Fonds d Intervention pour le Developpement (FID) and other
components of the SECALINE project be extended from the provinces of Toliary and
Antananarivo to all parts of Madagascar. IDA agreed in principle and requested the
authorities to draw up work-plans for the extension of FID. These plans were produced in
September, 1994. FID staff prepared proposals for a five year period and found that funds
allocated to FID under the original credit would be committed by beginning of 1996 and
that additional resources would be needed. Consequently, the Bank sent a reconnaissance
mission to Madagascar in November, 1994 which led to an IEPS which was reviewed on
April 6, 1995. The review meeting recommended that the project be included as part of
the new fast-track experiment in project processing in the Africa Region. A Bank mission
in April-May, 1995 finalized project cost estimates.
3.2   There is strong support for FID among the key leaders in Government, and both
the President and Prime Minister have come out in support. The President has
participated in several inaugurations of FID sub-projects.
3.3   Support among beneficiaries and NGOs has been very strong for a long time. .
FID is currently finalizing recruitment of Regional Directors and other staff for all the new
provinces. Field visits by FID headquarters staff showed a strong desire for the extension.
Bank missions have visited the new provinces and organized focus group meetings with
beneficiaries, key officials and NGOs.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1. National Level
3.4   The FID has been set up as a non-profit association operating in accordance with
the provisions of its Articles of Agreement, By-laws and Manual of Procedures, and of the
Framework Agreement between FID and the government. FID operates under a six
person Board of Directors appointed by its members. The Board includes one
representative each of the Prime Minister, the donor community, NGOs, and civic
organizations in addition to two Directors elected by the members. The Prime Minister's
representative presides over the Board of Directors which appoints the Executive Director
from a short-list prepared by a management consulting firm after an international search
among Malagasy with strong management skills living either in Madagascar or outside the
country. The Executive Director is responsible for the day-to-day management of FID
and appoints Regional Directors for the six regions of Antananarivo, Antsiranana,
Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toliary and Toamasina. Agreement was reached during



Madagascar: Social Fund !! Project - StaffAppraisal Report            12
negotiations that at all times during project implementation: (i) the articles of agreement,
the manual of procedures and the by-laws of FID, and the Framework Agreement
between the government and FID will be acceptable to IDA, and (ii) the positions of
Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director and Regional Directors of FID will be
filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
IDA (para. 5. 3). The draft of the Framework Agreement will be discussed and agreed to
during negotiations and its signature will be a condition of effectiveness (para.5.4). This
is expected to follow the lines of the agreement in use for the on-going project. In 1993,
the Government promulgated the decree recognizing FID as a public service association
(association reconnue d'utilite publique). Agreement was reached sought during
negotiations that the formal revision of the Manual of Procedures by FID to reflect the
experience of the ongoing project would be completed by June 30, 1996 (para. 5.3).
3.5   The National Coordinator of the SECALINE project will be the Prime Minister's
representative on the Board of Directors of FID and hence its Chairman. The National
Coordinator of SECALINE is appointed by a Prime Ministerial decree approved in the
Council of Ministers. A separate decree designates the National Coordinator of
SECALINE as the Prime Minister's representative on the Board of Directors of FID. The
Chairman of FID (Prime Minister's representative on its Board and SECALINE National
Coordinator) concentrates on relations with and reporting to the Government (Prime
Ministry) and the funding agencies (IDA and any others), and on channeling external funds
from the IDA Credit, various grants (Japan PHRD Grant) and domestic funds from the
Government budget. The National Coordinator also represents the Govermment in
assuring that the Framework Agreement is adhered to and that audits are carried out. The
National Coordinator will be responsible for mandated reporting to the Government and
IDA, as well as for external M&E of FID on behalf of the Govemment and IDA.
3.6   By its nature, most of the project's activities are to be operationally managed at the
provincial level, by the FID regional offices, while planning, budgeting and strategic
management as well as M&E are concentrated at the National level (Executive Director).
Since FID is an independent, self-contained and autonomous entity, most of the
management work will be performed intemally by FID, under the authority of the
Executive Director and the Board of Directors. The intemal management framework
developed by FID and currently operational will be retained for the most part, subject to
some modification and extension as a result of the on-going Manual of Procedures
revision (see sub-section 3 below).
3.7   FID has had a good record in implementation. Sub-project proposals prepared by
communities with the participation of NGOs and presented to the regional office are
appraised by regional staff and presented to a Regional Advisory Committee for
comments. The recommendations of this committee are not binding, however, and
depending on the amount of financing requested from FID, sub-projects are approved
either by the Regional Director, or by the Executive Director or by the Board of Directors.
Contracting is done by FID according to its manual of procedures which has been
prepared in line with Bank guidelines. Over the project period the bulk of the sub-projects
are expected to be development of local small infrastructure, the remaining projects would



13                                              Chapter 3: Project Implementation
be in sustainable income generating activities and support to small enterprises (in
cooperation with existing projects). While FID would not be a financial intermediary, in
the case of income generating activities, beneficiaries would be required to reimburse
funds provided to them for equipment and working capital (training would be a grant).
These reimbursements would be at market rates and the funds would flow through FID (to
assure that repayment takes place) to a community fund for other such activities. The
communities requesting financing have to agree to pay for additional recurrent costs when
entailed such as maintenance, teachers' salaries etc. Generally, FID supports rehabilitation
of run-down structures rather than new ones and consequently, the additional recurrent
cost implications are minimal. The buildings were probably run down as a consequence of
the lack of maintenance by the respective ministries - FID intervention conceptually
assures that the community undertakes some of the responsibility for maintenance. It is
still too early to know if this approach will work in practice.
2. Regional Level
3.8   The Regional Directors have a great deal of autonomy in keeping with FID's
decentralizing philosophy and are responsible for promoting, appraising and implementing
projects within their region. In accordance with the provisions of the Manual of
Procedures, projects submitted for financing would have to be approved by the Board of
Directors, though projects requiring less than US$25,000 from FED may be approved by
the Executive Director and those requiring less than US$5,000 from FID by the Regional
Director. The operators (i.e. the NGOs and other entities requesting funding) would be
supervised by FID staff. FID staff would also be on hand to provide technical assistance,
training and other support necessary to the operators. Regional Directors are assisted in
project selection and ranking by a Regional Advisory Committee including representatives
of regional government as well as NGOs and the for profit private sector. The risk of
project selection being adversely influenced by political or private commercial interests is
reduced by having a large cross-section represented on this regional advisory committee,
including churches, NGOs, civil servants, businesses etc..
3.9    Once the elected decentralized structures are installed, FID could serve as a
conduit for donor resources by supporting local authorities which demonstrate fiscal
discipline and show initiative. Eventually, FID could evolve into a Social and
Development Fund channeling resources to local authorities on a matching grant basis.
The eventual approach will depend on the findings of an on-going study on municipal
finance.
3.10  Under the current project (SECALINE), FID has defined and put into practical
operation a thorough and well-formulated management information system as part of the
detailed operating procedures developed as an expansion of the original FID
Implementation Manual. This reflects the generally high level of professionalism within
FID. The management structures and procedures as currently defined can handle the
increased volume of projects, both overall considering the addition of four additional
regional offices, and within the existing two regional offices, without major changes.



Madagascar. Social Fund II Project - StaffAppraisal Report             14
3. Project Implementation Manual/ FID's Manual of Procedures
3.11   FID operates according to an implementation manual approved by IDA and the
Government covering: (a) sub-project selection criteria; (b) procurement procedures; (c)
model agreements and contracts; (d) financial management procedures; and (e)
administrative procedures. The revision of the Manual of Procedures which has just
begun will take a fresh look at all aspects of FID organization and management, based on
the year or so of actual operation and the results of the various diagnostic and evaluation
studies performed or under way. FID will adopt a revised manual of procedures to reflect
the experience of the on-going project using the studies being currently carried out by
June 30, 1996. The revisions to the manual will concentrate on the following areas: (a)
project production cycle; (b) client or beneficiary relations; (c) technical field supervision;
(d) increasing the proportion of its Income Generating Activities (IGA) sub-projects to be
financed by FID, and (d) increasing the proportion of private sector support sub-projects
financed by FID.
3.12  A market identification and demand study is starting shortly to identify the
different types of IGA that could be potentially financed by FID, in the different zones in
the country. Based on this identification, operational procedures for promoting, selecting,
evaluating and executing IGA sub-projects will be developed and codified in the Manual
of Procedures. The system will be tested on a few sub-projects, to be developed by the
consultants retained for the study, and followed through operational research during
execution. This work will commence shortly and, the demand study and the elaboration of
procedures are to be finished by early in 1996.
3.13  Concerning privale sector stupport, a training needs assessment and training plan
for contractors and engineering consultants will be developed during the coming months
by the same consultant that is looking at technical works quality.
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1. Structure
3.14  For external Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of FID, the general framework
designed for the on-going SECALINE project will be retained. The National Coordinator
will be responsible for the external monitoring and evaluation of FID, on behalf of the
Government and the Funding Agencies. The current monitoring system of quarterly and
annual FID reports, and target indicator list will continue essentially unchanged, as will
the scope, focus and periodicity of evaluations (See Annex IV for details). Annual
financial and technical audits carried out by external auditors are an integral part of
monitoring and evaluation.
3.15  The current monitoring system comprehensively and adequately covers the sub-
project 'production' (identification and execution) cycle. The final version of the
computerized integrated project 'execution' monitoring program will be operational



15                                               Chapter 3: Project Implementation
shortly, and will interface with the proven financial management package 'Tompro'
currently being installed (replacing the non-performing custom-designed system originally
contracted). A similar integrated system for the project 'identification' (Promotion) cycle
will be ready in time for the operational start-up of the new regional offices.
3.16  The production aspect is well-covered by the existing procedures of FID, the
"client relation" aspect needs strengthening as some preliminary results from the on-
going revision of FID procedures indicates some misunderstanding of what FID can or
cannot finance. The recently started ex-post evaluation of FID sub-projects, which
includes beneficiary assessment surveys, will, inter alia, result in specific recommendations
of how to best manage client relations for the future (the results of this exercise will be
available progressively from July, 1995 onwards; the final report is scheduled for mid-
September). However, based on the pre-diagnostic work, it is already suggested that the
current FID M&E function be transformed and expanded into a 'client relations' service
with a staff member in each region reporting to the Executive Directorate. This service
would be responsible for listening to complaints, conducting periodic beneficiary
assessments, and generally serving as an 'off-line' feedback channel between FID and the
ultimate client beneficiaries, as well as managing other evaluation exercises. Responsibility
for the 'sub-project production' monitoring and monthly/quarterly reporting will be entirely
transferred to the operational services (Regional Directors), as would normally be the case
in any private sector production-oriented organization. A more detailed report on the 'new
look' of various M&E functions will be available by June, to be prepared by the M&E
Consultant.
3.17  Also requiring strengthening is technicalfield supervision by FID, particularly as
relates to the technical work quality and 'social' behavior (employee treatment) of
contractors and engineering consultants. A diagnostic evaluation of the technical and
contractual procedures is currently under way, with the assistance of a consultant, and will
result in practical suggestions to remedy these weaknesses (part of the Manual of
Procedures revision exercise that has just started). Some of these can be implemented, if
necessary, on a priority basis during the next couple of months.
2. Project Monitoring Indicators
3.18  Process Indicators. These indicators are given in Table 3. 1. The social fund is a
demand driven project and the actual patterns are likely to vary as determined by demand.
The numbers in Table 3.1 are therefore subject to change but are based on the experience
of FID in its first two years.
3.19  Impact Assessments. The project monitoring indicators in Table 3.1 are process
indicators. In addition, FID proposes to use sub-project impact surveys and beneficiary
assessment surveys on an on-going basis to monitor impact regarding improvements in the
conditions of poor households. The impact of FID sub-projects will be examined on a
more global basis during the mid-term review.



Madagascar: Social Fund II Project - StaffAppraisal Report                         16
Table 3.1: Project Monitoring Indicators
1     1996       1997       1998      1999      Total
Person-days of Temporary Employment      1,250,000   1,250,000   1,250,000   1,250,000   5,000,000
Artisans & Skilled Worker Contracts            50         50        50         50        200
Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Contracts   300        300       300        300      1,20(0
Number of Schools Rehabilitated                30         30        30         30        12()
Number of Health Centers Rehabilitated         20        20         20         20         8(
Permanent Employment Created                  700        700       700        700      2,800
Number of NGO Contracts                       100        100       100        100        400
Kilometers of Rural Roads                     250        250       250        250      1,00(1
Hiectares Inigated                          7,500      7,500      7,500     7,500     30,00(0
1 lectares protected                        4,000      4,000      4,000     4,000     16,00(0
Source: Staff Estimates
3.20   Planned Reviews. As part of the supervision of the project, joint IDA/government
reviews of project implementation would be carried out on an annual basis to examine
progress, discuss the results of the previous year's work program and agree on the
following year's work program and budget. During negotiations, the Government would
be asked to give assurances that the annual review of project implementation will be held
not later than November 30 of each year on the basis of appropriate documentation to be
prepared by FID (para. 5.3). A more detailed mid-term review will examine progress
comparing actual results with anticipated outcomes, in order to decide whether and how
to continue or modify the project. Among other things the mid-term review would focus
on: (a) coordination with the new elected regional governments and consistency with
sectoral policy; (b) the progress made in the preparation, appraisal and implementation of
IGAs, (c) the impact of private sector support programs on the quality of projects and the
development of consulting firms; (d) the progress made in terms of the social behavior of
contractors and consultants; and (e) impact of FID sub-projects on poverty and household
incomes. I)uring negotiations, the Govertiment would be asked to give assurances that it
will: (i) carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the progress of the project not
later than November 30, 1998, (ii) submit to IDA a report evaluating the project's
progress not later than four weeks prior to such review, and (iii) implement the
recommendations of the mid-term review. (para. 5.3). The annual review for 1998 will
be combined with the mid-term review.
D. PROCUREMENT
3.21   The main objective of this project is to alleviate poverty by putting in place a
mechanism whereby NGOs and other grassroots groups can undertake small scale
development projects (such as small scale labor intensive public works, training for grass
roots groups and development of micro-enterprises). Procurement would be responsive to
these objectives. As mentioned earlier, the maximum cost of FID financing per sub-



17                                                     Chapter 3: Project Implementation
project is about US $ 100,000 equivalent for transport infrastructure projects and $50,000
for other types of projects.
3.22   Table 3.2 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
method of procurement.
Table 3.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millions)
Procurement Methods
International     National
Competitive     Competitive    Other Methods     Total
Bidding         Bidding
A. FED Sub-Projects                        -               32.2           3.6          35.8
(27.7)        (3.1)        (30.8)
B. FID Sub-Projects Consultants            -                -              3.5          3.5
(3.5)        (3.5)
C. Equipment & Furniture                   0.2              -             0.1           0.3
(0.2)             -            (0. 1)       (0.3)
D. Vehicles                                0.8              -             0.3           1.0
(0.7)                          (0.2)         (1.0)
E. TA, Training, Studies & Audits          -                -              1.8          1.8
(1.8)        (1.8)
F. Recurrent Costs                         -                -             2.9           2.9
(2.6)        (2.6)
1.0             32.2          12.1         45.4
(1.0)           (27.7)        (11.4)        (40.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to IDA financing. Other methods include use of consultants according to Bank Guidelines, use of UN
procuremcnt agencies and national and intemational shopping.
3.23   Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR).                The last CPAR on
Madagascar was carried out in 1984 and concluded that Madagascar's cumbersome
procurement regulations were a major constraint to the implementation of Bank-financed
projects. This was due to the fact that the National Tender Board was too involved in the
procurement review process. In January 1991, Government issued new regulations on
public procurement following a comprehensive review of the country's procurement
regulations (Country Implementation Review (CIR), December 1990). A follow-up CIR
occurred in March 1992, resulting in the Government's decision to use Bank Sample
Bidding Documents (Prime Minister's decree No. 892/92, March 6, 1992). The Bank
also organized two procurement seminars in Madagascar in 1993 and 1994 and most
project managers have undergone project management training. As a result of all these
changes, the pace of procurement has picked up along with disbursements. The next
CPAR was carried out in June 1995. Preliminary findings show that although regulations
have improved and project staff are fairly conversant with Bank procurement procedures,
contract signing procedures still take a long time. Therefore, as is the case with the on-
going social fund, steps will be taken to ensure that there is an adequate procurement
programming and follow-up.
3.24   The proposed project supports FID which has been set up under private sector
rules (as in the case of Public Works Agency or AGETIPA type projects) and most



Madagascar: Social Fund II Project - StaffAppraisal Report               18
procurement is not subject to the review process common in public procurement. The
experience of the on-going project has not shown any significant procurement problems.
3.25   Civil Works. The target group of firms expected to participate in procurement of
civil works comprises small and micro-enterprises since they are more likely to bid for
labor-intensive work projects. Civil works undertaken through the FID will include:
rehabilitation of small roads, reforestation, communal water supply systems, and
community infrastructures such as markets and health centers. In order to respond to the
poverty alleviation objective of this project, the works will be: (a) labor-intensive so as to
employ as many workers as possible; and (b) executed by small and micro-enterprises, and
artisans. Consequently, ICB is not considered an option for contracting these works
because they are small, labor-based, scattered and will be executed by many different
entities in remote areas.
3.26  For works procured through NCB, tenders will be advertised locally, bidders
would be given 30 days for submission of bids, evaluation criteria will be specified in the
bid documents, all bids will be opened in the presence of bidders' representatives, no
preference margin will be allowed for national contractors, eligible foreign contractors will
be allowed to participate in the bidding process, and standard bidding documents will be
used. Contracts for works awarded through NCB for FID projects will range in size from
US$10,000 to US$100,000 with a total IDA financing not to exceed US$27.7 million.
Approximately 300 of these larger contracts averaging about US$80,000 will be awarded
(this figure is indicative as FID is a demand driven organization. The experience of FID so
far shows that NCB procedures used by FID generate fairly reasonable unit costs. In the
future, for contracts under $20,000, unit costs would be established by region for each
type of work using NCB procedures. Contracts up to this size would then be awarded on
the basis of bidding which would use these regional unit costs as reference with bidders
proposing rates in terms of percentages above or below the reference unit costs. Larger
contracts would continue to be awarded through NCB though these unit costs could be
used as a guide. The unit costs would be revised periodically by NCB for each region.
Smaller FID contracts ranging in size from US$3,000 to US$10,000 will be awarded to
local craftsmen on the basis of price quotations with an aggregate IDA amount not to
exceed US$ $3.1 million. Again the regional unit costs established by NCB will be used
as a guide. The grouping of these contracts will not be possible because it will involve
different operators, different beneficiaries in different locations.
3.27  Goods. The procurement of equipment and vehicles for FID itself (as opposed to
procurement for FID sub-projects) would be grouped into lots of not less than
US$200,000 and done through ICB. Contracts estimated at less than US$200,000 up to
an aggregate of US$0.2 million worth of vehicles and US$0.1 million worth of equipment
would purchased through UNDP/IAPSO or other UN Procurement agencies (as permitted
under para. 3.9 of the Guidelines for l'rocuremenl under IBRD Loans and Dl)A Credits of
January, 1995). All amounts in this paragraph refer to IDA financing.
3.28   Expert Services, Studies, and Training. Contracts with consultants and NGOs
to design and supervise FID sub-projects up to a total IDA financing of US$3.5 million



19                                              Chapter 3: Project Implementation
will be done in accordance with Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C. August 1981).
In addition to the expert services under category "2" (see Table 3.4) which applies only to
FID sub-projects, services for technical assistance, training and studies for FID itself
amounting to IDA financing of US$1.5 million are in category "3" (see Table 3.4). These
will be also selected in accordance with World Bank for use of Consultants. Training per
diems not exceeding US$0.3 million IDA will be paid in accordance with UNDP training
scales. Consultant contracts with firms not exceeding US$50,000 and with individuals not
exceeding US$20,000 each will be subjected to a post-review only except for clearing
Terms of Reference. The exception to this rule will be amendments to a contract which
would bring the that contract above the threshold.
3.29  Incremental Operating Costs. The practice for FID under current project is to
finance 100% of incremental operating costs. Under the new project only 90% of
incremental recurrent costs will be financed by IDA up to a maximum of US$2.6 million.
This increase in the Government share demonstrates its -ncreased commitment. Whenever
possible national shopping will be used for the purchase of office supplies with an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 100,000. Each contract will not exceed US$5,000.
National shopping will not be possible for fuel and utilities as their prices are set by
government controlled parastatals.
3.30   Bank's Procurement Review. During project supervision, Bank-financed works
contracts above a threshold of US$75,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review
procedures.  Goods contracts or packages above US$75,000 will also be subject to prior
review. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be
carried out on about I in 10 civil works contracts and 1 in 10 goods contracts. During
negotiations, FID will be askedcfor assurances that it will contitnue to use the standard
bidding documents for goods and services and the standard letter for the recruitmient of
consultants as it does for the on-going project. (para. 5.3).
3.31   Procurement Management. FID will be responsible for overseeing all
administrative, managerial and financial aspects of the project including all procurement.
Local staff have already received formal Bank procurement training abroad and a local
procurement specialist has been hired. Bidding documents, technical specifications and
quantities will either be prepared by the procurement personnel in the FID or by
consultants.
3.32   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
*  prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
*  comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by FID indicating:  (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total project costs, (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion
time for individual contracts, (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified



Madagascar. Social Fund II Project - StaffAppraisal Report                                   20
methods of procurement, and (iv) compliance of procurement with the manual of
procedures as well as systematic review of procurement procedures; and
* a completion report by the government within six months of the credit closing date.
3.33    The implementation schedule is provided in Table 3.3 below, from which the
estimated disbursement schedule (Annex Vi) has been derived.
Table 3.3: Implementation Schedule
(Amounts in USS thousands)
Project Period  __
Project Element      Pre-Project  Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total Payment       Remarks
Loan Timing              Sign        Effect.                 Close
FID Infrastructure Sub-Projects         7,604   7,832   8,067   8,323        31,826 90% LCB & 10%
Community Contracts
Consultants for FID Sub-Projects         845    870      896    925           3,536 Bank Guidelines for
I______ ____   _ ____  __ ____  _ _____  _ ______ ______ C onsultants
Other FID Projects                       939    967      996   1,027          3,929 20% LCB & 80%
Community Procurement
Goods/EquipmentWVehicles                   0       5     602    767           1,374 75% ICB, 20% UN
Procurement Agencies,
5% LCB
TA, Training & Studies                   464    472      486    411           1,833 Bank Guidelines for
I______                 ________________   Consultants
Incremental Recurrent Costs              698    719      741    764           2,922 Local Shopping
TOTALS               10,549  10O865  11,788  12,217         45,420
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
E. DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.34    During its first year FID disbursed over two million dollars in two provinces
despite the difficulties involved in starting up. Disbursements are projected to be US$5
million in 1995 with the additional provinces being brought under FID. During 1996 (the
first year during which funds under the proposed project would be available)
disbursements are expected to rise to over US$10 million. The credit closing date will be
December 31, 2000. The estimated quarterly schedule of disbursement is in Anlnzex V. The
proposed project is expected to be fully disbursed within four years and the IDA Credit of
SDR xx.x million (US$ 40.0 million) is expected to be disbursed in accordance with Table
3.4 below:



21                                                 Chapter 3: Project Implementation
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories
(Amounts in USS millions)
IDA
Amount           %
1. FID Projects                                         30.9         86.0
2. FID Sub-Projects Consultants                          3.5        100.0
3. TA, Training, Studies and Audits                      1.6        100.0
4. Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture and other materials    1.3         95.0
5. Incremental Recurrent Costs                           2.6         90.0
40.0        88.2
Notes: Percentages above refer to amounts without taxes
3.35   Category 5 (incremental operating expenses) includes operating expenditures for
FID: office rental, materials, and supplies; rental and maintenance of equipment;
administrative costs; fuel, spare parts and vehicle insurance; utility and communication
expenses; special account banking charges; salaries for support personnel and field
allowances and perdiems. Local professional staff will hired as national consultants.
3.36   Disbursements will be in accordance with procedures outlined in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook. Disbursement for expenditures related to contracts for goods,
civil works, services or single purchases of less than US$ 50,000 and all incremental
operating costs and training programs will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. The SOEs and all records such as contracts, orders, invoices, and payroll
vouchers will be retained by FID (either central or provincial level) who will be
responsible for maintaining this information in a manner that would facilitate inspection by
supervision missions and for review by the external audit. Disbursement for expenditures
related to all contracts or single purchases greater than US$ 50,000 would be fully
documented. FID has a computerized accounting system which is suitable for use with
IDA-financed projects and has a Financial Officer and an Accounting Officer familiar with
Bank/IDA procedures and requirements. The Financial Officer of FID will be the primary
liaison between IDA and the borrower for all issues pertaining to disbursements and
accounting under this project.
3.37   Special Accounts and Project Accounts. To ensure that funds for this project are
readily available and to facilitate disbursements, a special account will be opened in US
dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special
Account will be US$ 2,000,000 representing slightly less than IDA's anticipated share of
eligible expenditures for three months. IDA would make an initial deposit of $ 1.3 million
upon credit effectiveness and once SDR 5.0 million is disbursed, the balance of the
authorized allocation ($ 700,000) * would be advanced to the special account. This
trigger point may be advanced once execution is underway, if the actual pace of
disbursements warrants. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made on the
basis of monthly applications, supported by full documentation or SOEs, as required. To
simplify the preparation of SOEs, a simplified format will be used in which expenditures
are summarized by category, and sorted by province. As noted above, the documentation



Madagascar: Social Fund H Project - StaffAppraisal Report              22
for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at FID (either central or provincial level)
for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular audits. Initially, all
expenditures of less than $ 260,000 would be financed directly from the special account
and IDA would agree to direct payment or special commitment applications below this
limit (an exception would in case of payments to UN Agencies and their affiliated
services). Once the full initial allocation is advanced, this threshold would rise to US$
400,000. The Government will open in a financial institution a project account to cover
its counterpart contribution to the project. That account will be replenished quarterly.
During negotiatiotns, the Government and FID would be askedfor assurances that the
project account will he in a financial institution acceptable to IDA and replenished
quarterly based on justification of expenditures (paragraph 5.3) An initial deposit by the
Government of the equivalent in Malagasy francs of US$ 225, 000 in the project account
will be a condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 5. 4).
3.38  Advances from Special Accounts. Advances from Special Account. The project
will take advantage of the new procedures for 90-day advances from the special account
to regional offices of decentralized Bank/IDA- financed projects. FID possesses the
required safeguards, namely, (a) a strong central project management unit capable of
maintaining accounts for the project funds and allocating funds to the provinces based on
justified implementation needs, monitoring the use of decentralized funds and preparing
and submitting regular replenishment requests with appropriate supporting
evidence/SOEs; (b) acceptable budgeting, account and flow of funds procedures to ensure
that funds are allocated based on needs at the provincial level and that funds are
transferred on a timely basis; (c) linkage between physical accomplishments and
subsequent advances will be indicated by regular progress reports submitted by FID; and
(d) regular internal audits followed by an annual independent operational audit will
monitor the mechanism and render an opinion as to the suitability of continuing to use the
mechanism for disbursements. FID will have offices in six regions which would have
considerable autonomy. To cover expenses in these offices, FID will advance from the
special account resources up to the equivalent to three months of regionally-payable
expenditures. Advances to the provinces would be made in accordance with an Annual
Work Program and Funding Request (AWP and FR) setting out regional activities to be
undertaken and indicating quarterly funding requirements. The regional offices will
submit monthly replenishment requests to FID, who will in turn, submit monthly
replenishment requests to IDA. Replenishment will be made only on the basis of
expenditures actually paid. Moreover, amounts advanced and unaccounted for more than
six months would have to repaid to the central special account by the Borrower.
Payments above US$ 20,000 will be made directly by the National Office Special
Account.
3.39   Financial Reporting, Accounting and Auditing Arrangements. FID staff will
establish and maintain project related accounts. They will be responsible for compiling
and then consolidating the necessary accounting documents from the various executing
agencies. Such accounts shall be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally
recognized accounting principles and practices that are satisfactory to IDA. FID will
provide annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the



23                                             Chapter 3: Project Implementation
project. An auditor's opinion with special emphasis on the audit of SOEs and report
satisfactory to IDA on such statements will be provided. The auditor's report will include
a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting systems and internal controls,
the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for credit disbursements, and
compliance with financial covenants. There will also be a management audit to ensure
compliance with the manual of procedures and a technical audit for quality control. The
audits for on-going project have shown that FID maintains its accounts well and has a
good financial control mechanism. During negotiations, the Government would be asked
for assurances that the frequency of the audit and the periodfor the submission of audit
reports will be asfollows: financial audits annually, with audit reports to be submitted
within six months of the end of the audit period, and technical and management audits
every year with audit reports to be submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal
year (para. 5.3). The foregoing accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for project supervision. During
negotiations, the Government and FID will be asked for assurances that FID will submit
the audit reports with the above mentioned frequency. The appointment of auditors for
the duration of the project will be a condition of credit effectiveness. (para. 5.4).



4. BENEFITS, RISKS, BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION,
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The project aims at alleviating poverty while building local community and NGO
capacity for development. Specifically, the project expects to: (a) create about 5 million
person-days of temporary employment on infrastructure projects; (b) develop health and
education facilities; (c) develop 1,000 kilometers of farm-to-market roads; (c) provide
protection for 16,000 hectares threatened by soil erosion; (d) develop 30,000 hectares of
arable land; (e) finance 1,200 contracts with micro and small enterprises as well as another
200 with artisans and skilled daily workers; and (f) create approximately 2,700 permanent
jobs. These estimates are tentative and based on FID's experience to date. FID will be
demand-driven and it is difficult to predict in advance the distribution among various types
of projects. FID sub-projects are also helping to create community infrastructure such as
roads, irrigation systems, schools, and health centers.
4.2   In a more subtle way, FID is helping communities to take charge of their destiny
and empowering them. By doing so, FID is helping to accelerate the process of effective
decentralization, which is major objective of the Third Republic. Furthermore, FID is
helping create capacity among NGOs and micro and small enterprises to plan, prepare and
execute development projects.
B. RISKS
4.3   The main risks are: (a) FID-financed local infrastructure is not maintained; (b)
quality of infrastructure may suffer as a result of FID's encouragement of both micro-and
small-enterprises development; (c) political interference hampers performance; and (d)
FID may become a drain on public resources once it is no longer needed and it is not
converted to be used in other roles such as support to the newly decentralized structure.
4.4   With respect to poor maintenance, increasing ownership of projects would help
reduce this risk, by financing only projects requested by the community which could also
be required to contribute to capital costs. In addition, the community would have to agree
to finance maintenance and any incremental recurrent costs. To help ensure the quality of
infrastructure works, FID has started to: (a) create lists of qualified enterprises through
open competitive bidding; (b) provide training to enterprises and consulting firms that do
not qualify; and (c) retain part of the payment to firms and supervising engineers for a
period of time as a guarantee of quality. The risk of political interference is more difficult
to address, although such a problem recently experienced in the SECALINE project was
resolved once the Government visited the beneficiaries and saw the positive impact of the
project's success on its image. The new National Coordinator is providing all three heads



25                   Chapter 4: Benefits, Risks, Beneficiary Participation & Eco. Analysis
of national institutions, i.e. President, Prime Minister and President of the National
Assembly, opportunities to identify with and understand the project's success. Finally, the
risk of FID's becoming an on going drain on public resources is avoided by setting up the
FID as an NGO under private sector law, whose only claim on public resources would be
through the Framework Agreement, which could be canceled at any time by the
Government or donor concerned. Also, there are plans to convert FID eventually into an
organizational conduit to provide financial and technical support to the new decentralized
regional authorities once the elected Governments are in place.
C. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
4.5   The SECALINE project pioneered the use of extensive consultation with NGOs
and beneficiary assessment surveys in Madagascar. Regional advisory committees advise
on sub-projects. These groups include regional Govemment, NGOs and the for-profit
private sector. Special workshops with NGOs are being organized. Regular beneficiary
assessment surveys are part of FID's approach.
4.6   FID will also be recruiting staff to carry out a beneficiary outreach program which
will allow the national directorate to carry on a continuous series of focus group meetings
with beneficiaries in different areas. Any complaints against FID can also be examined
during these fora.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.7   The project is rated "C". There are no significant environmental issues. The
project will work closely with local communities and NGOs. Some local infrastructure
sub-projects may have an environmental consequence. Many projects are expected to
enhance environmental protection such as reforestation, erosion control etc.. Sub-projects
will be subject to environmental impact analysis where applicable. Local infrastructure
development will not support new road routes or new buildings but will instead focus on
rehabilitating existing structures. Furthermore, some sub-projects such as reforestation
and erosion control may actually help to improve the environment. In case of
reforestation there would be a specific policy to mix in local species in order to assure that
native species are preserved in their natural habitat and not totally replaced by rapidly
growing imported species such as pine and eucalyptus as is common in reforestation
projects. The project works closely with local communities and NGOs. Many of these
NGOs are also involved in the major environmental project and are quite aware of the
environmental implications of their efforts.
E. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.8    Cost Benefit Analysis: The overall economic rate of return is expected to be well
above 15% as all FID projects are subject to economic analysis wherever appropriate. For



Chapter 4: Benefits, Risks, Beneficiary Participation & Eco. Analysis     26
example in the case of transport infrastructure projects, the potential traffic volume is used
to assess whether it is justified and also to assess the quality of construction. In the case
of irrigation projects, attempts are made to avoid depending too much In addition, FID
will not rehabilitate or build infrastructure unless financing of recurrent costs can be
assured. The actual rate of return will depend on the final distribution among different
types of sub-project as FID is demand driven. Sub-projects in transport infrastructure and
in productive infrastructure such as micro-irrigation are required to meet a 15% rate of
return threshold before. Based on experience of the on-going project 80% of the funding
will go to these types of projects. Sub-projects in income generating activities or support
to the private sector have to meet a financial rate of return of at least 20% and generally
more. Environmental and social infrastructure sub-projects are not required to meet a rate
of return test. No new schools or clinics are built - structures are only rehabilitated. The
underlying rate of return is expected to be quite high for these sub-projects even though
not explicitly calculated. The criteria for them include assuring that any additional
recurrent costs would be financed by the beneficiaries and that the approach chosen is the
least cost over the useful life. As the sub-projects are small in size (a maximum of
US$100,000 for transport infrastructure and US$50,000 for other sub-projects), shadow
prices are generally not used in the analysis. However, in view of the fact that these
projects are highly labor intensive and in view of the high unemployment /
underemployment rate in the country, it is likely that the rates of return would be higher if
shadow pricing were to be used.
4.9    Quantitative Sensitivity Analysis: As the sub-projects are very small the costs of
sophisticated risk analysis (such as Monte Carlo simulations) cannot be justified. A very
simple sensitivity analysis is used for those projects requiring EIRR justification i.e.
benefits and costs are allowed to fluctuate by certain percentages and the EIRRs
calculated under various combinations.
4.10   Institutional Analysis: The proposed project provides supplemental financing for
an ongoing social fund which has been very successful. FID has a very strong
management which is to large extent politically insulated (as it represents all sides of the
spectrum). Some minor problems such continuous client relations have been identified i.e.
sometimes beneficiaries have not clearly understood that they have to play an active role
and measures taken to correct them. These include better training in communication for
FID staff and NGO partners.
4. 11  Poverty Analysis: The overarching objective of the project is to alleviate poverty.
The vast majority of beneficiaries are expected to be from the population below the
poverty line. The impact of the project on the incomes of the poor will be assessed
through a series of beneficiary surveys as is being done for the ongoing project. The draft
Madagascar Poverty Assessment has recommended a rural based strategy for poverty
reduction and accordingly the project will target primarily rural areas where 92% of the
poor live.
4.12   Economic Performance Criteria: Year by Year performance monitoring criteria
have been agreed to during negotiations and were included in the minutes of negotiations.



27                    Chapter 4: Benefits, Risks, Beneficiary Participation & Eco. Analysis
The process monitoring criteria are given in Table 3. 1. In addition, impact assessments
are planned including one just before the proposed mid-term review.
4.13   Overall Assessment: The project as designed is expected to address the major
concerns such as poverty reduction, environmental protection and economic efficiency
quite well.



5. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND
RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Before negotiations, the Government will provide evidence of the recruitment of
Regional Directors for all six regions.
5.2   Prior to Board Presentation, the Government will provide a signed letter of sector
policy.
5.3   During negotiations, the following agreements will be sought:
(a)   The articles of agreement, the by-laws and the manual of procedures of
FID, and the Framework Agreement between the government and the FID
will, throughout project implementation, be acceptable to IDA (para. 3.4);
(b)   The positions of Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director and
Regional Directors of FID will be filled at all times by personnel having
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.4);
(c)   The borrower will carry out, jointly with IDA, an annual review of project
implementation not later than November 30 of each year, on the basis of
appropriate documentation to be prepared by FID that would also include
the proposed work program and budget for the following year (para. 3.20);
(d)   The borrower will: (i) carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the
progress of the project not later than November 30, 1998; (ii) submit to
IDA a report by consultants evaluating the project's progress not later than
four weeks prior to such review; and (iii) implement the recommendations
of the mid-term review (para. 3.20);
(e)   The borrower will use IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and
services; and the standard letter for the recruitment of consultants (para.
3.30);
(f)   The borrower will maintain in a financial institution acceptable to IDA
project accounts to cover its counterpart contribution to the project and
replenish those accounts quarterly based on justification of expenditures
(para. 3.37);
(g)   The borrower will submit to IDA, audit reports as follows: (i) financial
audits annually, with audit reports to be submitted within three months of
the end of the period, and (ii) technical and management audits every year
with audit reports to be submitted within three months of the close of the
fiscal year (para. 3.39); and



29                  Chapter 4. Benefits, Risks, Beneficiary Participation & Eco. Analysis
(h)   FID will adopt a revised manual of procedures acceptable to IDA, to
reflect the experience of the on-going project using the studies being
currently carried out, by June 30, 1996 (para. 3.4).
5.4   The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a)   deposit by the government of the equivalent in Malagasy francs of
US$225,000 in the project account for the government counterpart
contribution (para. 3.37).
(b)   the appointment of external auditors acceptable to IDA for the duration of
the project (para. 3.39); and
(c)   Signing of the Framework Agreement between the Government and FID
(para 3.4).
5.5   Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR xx.x million (US$40.0 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Madagascar on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



30
ANNEx I: DECLARATION OF POLICY FOR POVERTY ALLEVLITION
REPUBLIOUE DE MADAGASCAR
Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fahamarinana
Le Premier Ministre
Palais de Mahazoarivo, le    -     '
A Monsieur Andrew Rogerson
Directeur, Departernent de l'Afrique Centrale
et de l'Ocean Indicn
Region Afrique
Banque Mondiale
Washington DC, USA
0 B J E T Politique poor la lutte Contre la Pauwret.
Monsieur le Directeur,
La situation actuelle de Madagascar, caracterisee par une degradation gen6ralis6e
ayant entraine une pauvrete quasi-insupportable, est devenue un probleme prioritaire de l'Eat
Malgache.
Le Gouvernement favorise toutes les actions qui visent a elaborer une strategic de
croissance economique pour reduire la pauvrete.
Un groupe de travail intersectoriel a 6te constitue pour assurer la preparaIion du
seminaire regional sur la lutte contre la pauvrete organise par l'Institut de Developpement
Economique (IDE) de la Banquc Mondiale ct qui se tiendra pour l'Afriquc de I'Est francophone
a Madagascar.
Plusicurs actions de lutte contre la pauvrete sont deja menecs par divcrses
institutions a Madagascar et cet atelier r6gional sera le bienvenu pour une meilleure
coordination ct pou- finaliser, avant la fin de lannec 1996, une strat6gie pour r6duire la
pauvrete. Une des composantes du Projet SECALINE " Strategie Nationale de lutte contre Ia
Pauvrwe " s'y attile dcpuis Juillet 1994.
Dans la lettre d'intention du Premier Ministre dat6e de F6vrier 1995, rubrique
Aspects Sociaux ", le Gouvernement se declare conscient de la necessit& d'augmenter les
moyens de fonctionnement de l'education de base et des services de soins de sante primaire. Il
afirme sa volonte de renforcer les chantiers A haute intensit6 de main d'oeuvre.



Madagascar: Social Fund II Project StaffAppraisal Report                         31
(StLite)
L' enveloppe budg6taire de l'annee 1995 consacre 25% de l'ensemble du budget
a 1'education et 10%/o a la sante. Les diverses aides recues sont affect6es dans une grande
proposition aux volets sociaux. Dans l'avenir, nous comptons augmnenter l'allocation des
ressources par personne en terrnes reels pour l'education primaire et secondaire et la sante de
base.
Les efforts pour att6nuer l'impact dcs mesures dc l'ajustcmcnt structurel
devenues indispensables sur les couches les plus defavorisees, seront concentr6s dans les
secteurs sociaux
L'option prise par Madagascar est de decentraliser les pouvoirs de decision au
niveau regional. D'autre part, lzs budgets ct lc pcrsonecl de l'education zt de la santc pour les
circonscriptions scolaires (CISCO) et les districts sanitaires pourront consolider l'autonomie
de chaque region. Les travaux de mise en place de cette d6centralisation sont actuellement en
cours. Les elections portant sur la mise en place des communes sont pr6vues avant fin 1995.
Le profil de pauvret6 sp6cifique a chaque region procurcra une vision plus
large, plus concrete et plus realiste des actions a entreprendre. Ces actions bien cibl6es
permcttront un d6collagc socio-6conomique si cllcs sont combin6es aux retomb6ecs positives
des richesses (sol, sous-sol, climat...) et a la disponibilite en ressources humaines.
Divers plans nationaux ont et e1abor6s pour proceder au redressement social.
Cependant, ces plans et recommandations y aflfrentes resteront des voeux pieux si des actions
progranmuecs nc sont pas imm6diatcmcnt cntreprises.
Compte tenu du fait que 900o% des pauvres se trouvent en milieu rural, lc
Gouvernement a progawn,e des activit6s tendant ai la productivite des petits paysans pour
pouvoir les inscrer dans la classe des personmes vivant au dessus du seuil de pauvrete.
L'isolement des regions, la degradation et l'absence d'infiastuctcre de base en
milicu ral, cn pariiculicr les routes, los ecoles ct les ccntres de soins contribuent a accentur
la pauprisation de lamajorit6 de la population.
Les six composantes du Projet SECALINE ont d6ja declench6 le processus de
lutte contre la pauvrret et ont- permis une conscientisation plus realiste et concrete des
responsables Malgaches tant officiels que prives sur la dimension et sur l'urgence de cette lutte.
Graicc a l'apport combine d'informations et d'actions des autres composmates, la
composante Fonds dintervention pour le Developpernent (FID), volet le plus important du
Projet SECALINE, a pu mener des .operations bien cibl6ees. C'est ainsi que le FID a pu
demontrer que ses actions adherent parfaitement aux objectifs rechcrch6s par PEtat Malgache.
L'extension de cette composante FID dans toute IlIle vise a desenclaver les regions, creer des
micro-projets. construire ou rehabiliter des infrastructures sociales afin de provoquer un effet
d'entrainement socio-economique positif



32                                  Annex 1: Declaration of Policyfor PovertyAlleviation
(Suite)
Sauver les regions de l'isolement dans lequel elles se trouvent perrnema de
mettre en place un systeme de securite dans le sens plein du terTne, qiie recherche chaque
citoyen pour pouvoir travailler dans la qui6tude. Le Gouvcrnemenbt favorise et appr6cie les
programmes t.els que les Projets PASAGE et SECALINE qui s'adressent a la population pour
resoudre de fagon durable les problemes de lutte contre la pauvret6.
Monsieur le Directeur,
Je ne doute pas de pouvoir compter sur votre aide appreciable pour la
realisation do cc programme et jc vous pric de croire cn I'assurance de ma haute considcration
lo      S             ?~ON



33
ANNEX II: DESCRIPTION OF THE SOCIAL FUND (FONDSD'INTERVENTIONPOUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENTOR FID)
A. General
The "Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID)" is an independent
agency that promotes and finances small community projects and activities for economic
and social development that are proposed, initiated and implemented by community
groups, NGOs and local authorities. Its aim is to implement, with rapidity and efficiency
and in a flexible way, small projects and programs that are responsive to the needs of the
poorest groups, and to support the establishment and development of community
organizations. The FID is independent of the government structure, and is managed and
operated as a private sector organization and in a decentralized manner.
B. Legal set up, Organization and Management
The FID is a non-profit Association, officially declared as serving the public
interest, but managed and operated as a private sector company. In addition to ordinance
N 60-133, decree N 60-383 and ordinance N 75-017, the texts setting forth the legal
structure and operating rules of the FID are:
* The Articles of Agreement (Statuts);
a The Bylaws (RNglement Int6rieur);
* The Manual of Procedures; and
* The Framework Agreement between the FID and Government (Convention).
The members of the Association are the Central Government, local authorities,
donors, NGOs, representatives of the private sector and beneficiaries (community groups).
The structure of the Association consists of the General Assembly of Members
(Assemble Generale), the Board of Directors and the Executive Director of the FID.
The General Assembly of Members approves amendments to the Articles of Agreement,
ratifies all changes to the Manual of Procedures decided by the Board of Directors, elects
two members of the Board of Directors, and approves the accounts and audit reports.
The Board of Directors consists of 6 members, appointed for a two-year term.
Two Directors are elected by the General Assembly of Members, and the other four are
nominated as follows: one by the Prime Minister, one by donors, one by NGOs and one by
the private sector. The Prime Minister's Representative is the Chairman of the Board'.
Under decree number 95-345 of May 9, 1995, the Prime Minister's representative on the Board of
Director's is the National Coordinator of the SECALINE



Madagascar: Social Fund HI Project StaffAppraisal Report                  34
The Board of Directors appoints the Executive Director of the FID, and approves the
work programs and budgets, the Bylaws (RNglement Interieur), the establishment of
regional offices, the financing agreements between the FID and donors, the Framework
Agreement between the Government and FID (Convention), and the projects to be
financed by the FID (unless otherwise delegated to other entities or individuals).
The Executive Director of the FID is appointed by the Board of Directors. He is
responsible for the day-to-day management of the FID, including the recruitment and
management of personnel.
The organization and staffing of the FID will develop as warranted by the volume
of business that it has to handle. If the FID is successful and is, in particular, able to
mobilize financing from many donors, the opening of regional offices in all the provinces
could become justified. In the initial stage, only two regional offices will be established for
the Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary. The functions of a regional office include
promotion activities as well as project appraisal and supervision. Certain functions, like
monitoring and evaluation, are carried out centrally by a division or unit at the
headquarters of the FID.
C. Types of Projects, and Selection and Evaluation Criteria
The FID promotes and finances, in the form of grants, the following projects,
programs and activities:
-  construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure: schools, health centers, water
supply, small irrigation perimeters, rural roads, small bridges, reforestation and
protection of the environment, etc.,
*  income-generating activities: small livestock, fisheries, vegetable gardens, handicraft,
etc.; and,
*  private sector support programs, including training programs for small enterprises and
consulting firms, and the development of grass-roots community groups and local
NGOs.
The objective of the FID is to finance projects that benefit the poorest and most
vulnerable groups and promote the use of local resources and self reliance. The selection
criteria for the projects to be financed by the FID include the following:
* the projects must be initiated by the beneficiaries themselves and meet their felt needs
(indicator: origin of the request, contribution in cash or in kind by the beneficiaries);
* the projects must benefit the poorest and most vulnerable groups (indicator: income of
the beneficiaries compared to the average income for the region);



35                                          Annex 11 Description of the Social Fund
*  the projects must be technically feasible, financially viable (if applicable), and socially
or economically justified (indicator: population/number of current and potential users
of social infrastructure, cost/benefit analysis);
*  the projects must be consistent with the national, sector or regional development plans
(indicator: consistency with existing plans);
+  the projects must promote self reliance and the development of community groups
(indicator: cost of training component compared to total project cost);
*  the projects must be part of a group of projects and programs in the same zone in
order to maximize impact (indicator: existence of other activities, on going or
planned);
*  the projects will make use of local resources or create temporary or permanent
employment (indicator: cost of local resources compared to total cost, labor intensity,
number of jobs created);
*  the projects must promote the development of the private sector, particularly small
enterprises capable of undertaking works previously done by force account (indicator:
percentage of project cost benefiting local enterprises); and
*  the projects must include satisfactory  arrangements for their operation  and
maintenance (indicator: existence of a management committee, availability of
personnel, coverage of recurrent costs).
Project proposals will be evaluated to ensure that they comply with the selection
criteria and that they benefit the target groups. Generally, the FID will not finance
recurrent activities, emergency projects, projects that are too sophisticated, too difficult to
manage and rely excessively on mechanization, projects that have been eliminated from the
government or local authorities investment programs, projects already financed or planned
with other financing, projects that have a negative impact on the environment, and major
projects (the cost of which exceeds US$100,000 for roads and bridges or US$50,000 for
other projects). Also, the FID will not finance projects in any community where the
beneficiaries of previous FID projects have not complied with their commitments
regarding the implementation, management and maintenance of those previous projects.
D. Beneficiaries of FID
The beneficiaries of grants by the FID will be:
* groups or associations of persons that are undertaking income-generating activities or
small infrastructures, or receiving training;
* NGOs that are receiving assistance to organize and develop groups and associations
and to help them undertake income-generating activities and small infrastructures;



Madagascar: Social Fund ll Project StaffAppraisal Report                    36
*  local authorities that are undertaking small infrastructure investments (schools, water
supply, rural roads, etc.); and
*  private sector entities, such as small enterprises and consulting firms that are receiving
technical assistance and training needed to develop their activities (including the
implementation of projects financed by FID).
E. Operation of FID
The FID is a financing entity that provides grants to finance projects, programs and
activities identified and prepared by the beneficiaries themselves. The FID carries out
promotion activities at the national and regional levels, appraises projects, supervises their
implementation, and monitors and evaluates their impact, particularly on the target groups.
As a general rule, the FID will not implement projects itself, but rely on "operators",
although the modalities of implementation will vary depending on the types and costs of
projects. The NGOs, local grass-roots groups and communities requesting funding for
income-generating activities, private sector support programs and small infrastructure
projects (costing less than US$7,500) will be responsible for implementation and will enter
into contracts, if required, with consultants, artisans, small enterprises and suppliers.
Their rights and responsibilities as operators (including the schedule of disbursement of
the grant, their counterpart contribution, if any, and the procurement procedures that they
will have to follow) will be clearly defined in their contract with FID (protocole d'accord).
For those types of projects, FID will have a financing and monitoring role. For all other
infrastructure projects, the FID will be "Maitre d'Ouvrage Delegue" and will in all cases
enter into contracts with small and medium scale enterprises for the works. The FID will
also contract with "operators", such as NGOs, technical assistance projects and regional
and local units of technical ministries to act as "Maitre d'Oeuvre"; however, for
infrastructure projects costing more than FMG 50 million (about US$30,000 equivalent)
for which no operators can be identified, the FID will use local consultants as "Maitre
d'Oeuvre". FID will provide grants only and will not be a lending agency. However, for
income-generating activities and private sector support programs, the operator will set up
and manage a credit scheme for all investments benefiting individuals and households, in
order to have a revolving fund and ensure the sustainability of the activities and programs.
The FID will eventually have a staff of core professionals for its headquarters
office in Antananarivo and its regional offices in the Provinces of Antananarivo,
Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajunga, Tomasiana and Tulear. The Headquarters Office
will include the Executive Director of the FID, three staffs responsible for projects,
administration and finance, and monitoring and evaluation, respectively, and an accountant
and a computer specialist. Each regional office will include a Regional Director, three
staffs responsible for promotion, projects, and administration and finance, one Assistant
Promotion Officer, three Implementation Coordinators, one Accountant and one
Computer Specialist. Both regional offices will benefit from long-term and short-term
technical assistance by international and national consultants. The Bylaws of the FID
(Reglement Interieur) establish the internal organization; hiring, firing and other personnel
management procedures; and administrative rules and regulations.



37                                        Annex II: Description of the Social Fund
The Manual of Procedures (Manuel de Procedures) recalls the fundamental
objectives of the FID, and establishes:
* the types of projects, and the selection and evaluation criteria;
* the beneficiaries;
* the terms and conditions of financing,
* the procedures whereby FID receives and processes requests from beneficiaries,
including who has the authority to approve projects and grants;
* project implementation and supervision, including model contracts between the FID
and beneficiaries and between the FID and operators,
* the procurement procedures, including sample bidding documents and model contracts
for project engineering, execution and supervision;
v the accounting and disbursement procedures, and the procedures to be followed to
secure independent external auditors,
* the financial management procedures; and
* the monitoring and evaluation procedures, and the nature and periodicity of reporting
by the FID.
The Framework Agreement (Convention) between the Government and the FID,
describes the FID's modus operandi in the context of the present Project and IDA credit.
Among other things, the Agreement establishes: that the government will place non-
reimbursable financial resources at the disposal of the FID, including the proceeds of the
IDA credit; that the FID will finance projects consistent with those defined in the Manual
of Procedures and in accordance with the provisions of that Manual; that the Manuel de
Procedures must be acceptable to IDA and the Government; and that the accounts of FID
must be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.



38
ANNEX III: PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASPECTS
The management structure and process of FID are detailed and documented in a four
volume Operations Manual, which operationally translates and expands on the framework
defined in the Manual of Procedures. The management approach adopted is resolutely private
sector oriented, based on management-by-objectives tailored to a production environment. The
FID 'products' are sub-projects from the three categories of infrastructure, IGA, and private-
sector support, 'sold' to the 'clients' (beneficiaries).
In conformity with this perspective, the management keywords are objectives, goals,
supply, demand, marketing, customer partnership, sales, production, costs, delivery, quality,
customer relations, and after-sales service.
The objectives are as defined externally in the Manual of Procedures (see Annex 1): to
finance and implement sub-projects that benefit the poorest and most vulnerable groups,
according to their expressed desires and needs, that promote the use of local resources and
enterprises; and that increased self-reliance and long-term locally sustainable development.
The objectives are translated into quantified overall goals, as detailed in the list of
Objectively Verifiable Indicators in Table 3-1 of the main text. These are operationalized
through quantified Annual Work Plans And Budgets, broken down into subsidiary rolling
Quarterly Work Plans and Budgets for each Region, prepared by the Executive Director and
Regional Directors, respectively.
Demand for sub-projects is identified on a general level through overall knowledge of
various regions gained from experience and various external studies and surveys; and on a
specific level through client-initiated contacts with the Regional Promotion Services.
Expression of demand is stimulated through periodic markeling campaign tours conducted by
the Promotion service in various targeted zones. The Promotion Service is also responsible for
sales and customer partnership. Sine each product is customized, this involves the various
elements of sub-project identification and pre-feasibility study, coupled with partnership
agreements concerning client contribution for execution and subsequent maintenance. The sale,
as it were, is concluded when the sub-project is approved at the appropriate FID level. It is
then handed over to the Regional Project Service for 'production'. If the sale does not go
through (i.e. the demand is rejected with reference to the various codified selection criteria)),
the Promotion Service will explain the reasons for rejection, and suggest means of modifying
the project design to allow acceptance by FID.
While it is true that FPD is by definition demand-driven, certainly on the level of
individual sub-projects, FID is also supply-driven in the sense that FPD has externally imposed
(de facto if not de jure) goals for disbursement and sub-project implementation (as e.g. detailed
in this SAR). One of the critical executive management issues is to balance these somewhat
contradictory - though both necessary - goals, so as not to lose the key element in the FID



39                                           Annex III. Project Management Aspects
approach: true community ownership responsiveness, the only ultimate guarantee for long-term
sub-project sustainability.
Production is managed either directly or indirectly (sub-contracted maitre d'oeuvre) by
the Regional Project Service, passing successively through the cycle of feasibility study
(technical end economic evaluation), detailed design, bidding, contracting etc., according to
standard procedures for civil works etc.
Production costs are managed through imposition of goals on the ratio of FID
overhead to disbursements (10-12%), and product costs through appropriate norms for
technical quality and standards, contracting and procurement.
Delivery delays are managed through tracking of delays for each step in the promotion
and project chain against defined norms.(in days or months), and through close follow-up of
contractor implementation progress (weekly, monthly reports)..
Quality is partly assured by having well-structured identification and evaluation
procedures and methods, appropriate to each type of sub-project, and by field supervision.
However, as mentioned elsewhere (section III. C of the main report), the current procedures
for field supervision need strengthening, as experience shows that FID cannot exclusively relay
on subcontracting for this function (as is the current practice).
Detailed, formalized procedures and circuits, analysis and evaluation methods, together
with standard forms and other documents, have been developed for all the above functions, and
are explained and documented in Operations Manual.
Finally, customer relations and after-sales service are functions that need to be
developed much further, and interfaced with evaluation to complete the cycle and create a
positive feedback loop. (These are discussed in Annex IV: Monitoring and Evaluation).



40
ANNEX IV: PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
In a production-oriented management-by-objectives (MBO) environment,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) as a joint off-line function is somewhat of a an
artificial construct. Monitoring cannot be either logically or practically separated from line
management; without monitoring as part of the overall MIS, there can be no real
management by objectives. Now that the FID procedural framework is well-established, it
is appropriate to transfer the entire responsibility for the monitoring function to the line
managers (regional directors).
The management information system (MIS) for FID has four logical
components, (a) customer relations; (b) project description database; (c) project
production (including contract management); and (d) financial management (including
ancillary support functions such as personnel and office management, procurement etc).
On a practical level, these are realized through three software programs: (1) a
project tracking program, which covers (a) and (b) and is domiciled in the Regional
Project Service; (2) a promotion monitoring program (under development as an integrated
program) which covers the upstream part of (a), and is domiciled in the Regional
2
Promotion Service; and (3) the 'TOMPRO' financial project management package which
covers (d) and various administrative parts of contract management, and is domiciled in
the National and Regional Finance and Administration Services. Integration between (I)
and (2) is currently under way as part of the TOMPRO installation. Finalization of (2) and
its integration with (I) and (3) will be done in time for the operational start-up of the new
regional offices.
Monitoring is basically through periodic reports, monthly or weekly (at work
sites) at the lowest levels; monthly at the regional level; and quarterly and annually at the
national level.
The format respects the MBO approach with comparison and confrontation
between actual achievements and work plan goals, as reflected inter alia in the quantified
indicators, coupled with an action agenda for correction and/or modification of work
plans.
The evaluation functions are twofold: (1) operational evaluations conducted
internally by FID as a regular activity; and (2) periodic external evaluations under the
responsibility of the National Coordinator. The former would be piloted by the Customer
2   The TOMPRO package is specifically tailored to the financial and administrative
management of IDA-type loans and project management. It is a commercially available
package, and is currently being installed in a number of Bank-financed projects in
Madagascar (including SECALINE).



Annex IV: Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                 41
Relations Service as described in Section III. C, which would replace the existing M&E
unit. Their tasks would cover (a) generally listening to the clients (direct and indirect
beneficiaries, as well as operators and contractors), and dealing with complaints and
mediating if necessary; (b) managing periodic (two campaigns per year) beneficiary
assessment surveys on selected samples of sub-projects, with, inter alia, the following
themes: (i) beneficiary perception of FID's role and utility, and the quality of the services
provided; (ii) the perceptions of climes whose demands have been rejected, as to the
quality and correctness of the explanations given; (iii) the degree of community ownership
of the sub-projects; (iv) the relations between beneficiaries and the operators (engineering
consultants, contractors, NGOs); and (v) the degree of demonstrated willingness to
actually ensure maintenance; (c) piloting the annual FID performance self-evaluation; (d)
following-up in a systematic manner the fate of sub-projects after final reception,
particularly with respect to sustainability of community maintenance; and (e) managing
annual ex-post impact evaluation of a selected sample of projects. Points (a) and (b) fall
under the heading of customer relations; (d) and (e) comprise the after-sales service
function as described in Annex III.
The external evaluations consist of the mid-term review and the terminal
assessment. The mid-term review would, as described in Section III. C, give particular
attention to evaluating the newer elements in FID (the new regional offices, IGA,
contractor behavior, SME development, works quality etc.). An institutional/management
systems assessment should also be included. The terminal assessment should concentrate
on ex-post impact evaluation and impact sustainability (i.e. how long is the sub-project
amortization period, as it were), and the general utility and cost-effectiveness of the FID
approach to socially-oriented development, in comparison with traditional development
project formulas.



42
ANNEX V: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in thousands of US$)
Disbursements
Calendar Year & Quarter             During Quarter   Accumulated   0% Quarter   0% Cumulative
1996                             2,317
Quarter 1              1,300           1,3003 .3/o                     3.3'Y
Quarter 2                                                               3.30%
Quarter 3                                                               3.3(%)
Quarter4               1,017           2,317          2.50%I            5. 'MA
1997                             9,341
Quarter 1             2,317            4,634          5.8%      1].60K
Quarter 2             2,317            6,951          5.8%             17.4'Yo
Quarter 3             2,317            9,268          5.8%             23.2'M
Quarter 4             2,390           11,658          6.0%M/           29. ] "o
1998                            10,214
Quarter 1             2,385           14,043          6.0%             35.1 %)
Quarter 2             2,385           16,429          6.0%             4 . I 'M,
Quarter3              2,385           18,814          6.0%             47.0)'M
Quarter 4             3,058          21,872           7.6%             54.7%M
1999                            ]0,592
Quarter 1             2,457           24,329          6.10/o           60.8%yo
Quarter 2             2,457           26,785          6.1]%M           67.0%)
Quartcr3              2,457           29,242          6. 1%'           73. 1'/
Quarter4              3,222           32,464          8. 1%)           811.2%
2000                             7,530_
Quarter 1             2.512           34,976          6.30%            87.4%)
Quarter 2             2,512           37,498          6.3%yo           '3.7%Y.,
Quarter 31            2,512           40,000          6.3%X,          I ()(0.) W
TOTAL                                          40,((0(



43
ANNEX VI: SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision will be carried out according to the plan below though this may be
modified in view of evolving project realities. In addition to monitoring the objective
targets stated in Table 3-1, the supervision missions will monitor the following important
areas:
* linkage between FID and the Community Nutrition Program (financed under the
ongoing SECALINE project),
*  performance of FID management and keeping track of the ratio of FID recurrent
overhead costs to disbursements on FID sub-projects;
*  improvements in the quality of works financed by FID;
*  improvement in social behavior of FID contractors; and
*  integration of beneficiary concerns into FID management and decision making.
Mission Objectives                       Mission Members                Period
Pre-effectiveness mission:               Task Manager                   December,
1995
*  Review progress on conditions of credit    Social Fund Specialist
effectiveness;
*  Review revisions to FID implementation
manual; and
*  Review impact studv of FID sub-projects
financed in the first year and a half.
Project launch                           Task Manager                   July, 1996
*  Working sessions in all six regional  Implementation Specialist
capitals;
Social Fund Specialist
* Focus group meetings with NGOs; and
Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Formal Project Launch Seminar.        Specialist



Annex VI Supervision Plan                                                      44
First supervision mission                  Task Manager                    January,
1997
*  FID decision Review Progress on         Social Fund Specialist
objectives and covenants;
Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Review improvements in Income           Specialist
Generating activities; and
*  Review Integration of beneficiary feed-
back into making.
Second supervision mission                 Task Manager                    July, 1997
*  Review Progress on objectives and       Social Fund Specialist
covenants;
Civil Engineer
*  Review quality of works financed by FID;
and
*  Review behavior of FID contractors to
their employees
Third supervision mission                  Task Managcr                    January,
1998
*  Review Progress on objectives and       Social Fund Specialist
covenants;
Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Review linkage between FID and          Specialist
community nutrition program; and
*  Review FID/ NGO relationships.
Mid-term review                            Task Manager                    April, 1998
* Review Overall Progress in all aspects of Implementation Specialist
the Project
Social Fund Specialist
Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist
Civil Engineer
Fourth supervision mission                 Task Manager                    December,
1998
*  Review Progress on objectives and       Social Fund Specialist
covenants;
Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Review improvements in Income



45                                                      Annex VI: Supervision Plan
Generating activities: and            Spccialist
* Review Integration of beneficiary feed-
back into FID decision making.
Fifth supervision mission                 Task Manager                   July, 1999
*  Review Progress on objectives and      Social Fund Specialist
covenants;
Civil Engineer
*  Review quality of works financed by FID.
and
*  Review behavior of FID contractors to
their employees
Sixth supervision mission                 Task Manager                   January,
2000
*  Review Progress on all components      Social Fund Specialist
*  Pre-Identify next phase of project.    Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist
Seventh supervision mission               Task Manager                   July, 2000
*  Start Preparing ICR                    Social Fund Specialist
*  Follow up next phase of project        Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist
Eighth supervision mission                Task Manager                   January,
2001
*  Discuss ICR                            Social Fund Specialist



46
ANNEx VII: LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Most documents in for this projects are concurrently listed under Credit 2474-MAG:
Madagascar - Food Security and Nutrition Project.
The only document to be separately listed for this project is an implementation manual
(revised from the previous project) including: (a) Administrative Manual for FID; (b)
Financial Management Manual for FID; and (c) Operations Manual for FID.



MADAGASCAR                                                                  ANNEX VitI
Page 1 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORATE
Detailed Costs (t&4iAQ)costs
Totals Including Contilngencies
Quantities             Unlt Cost           Base Cost (US '000)                            Us$ 000)
Unit   1333   1397   1393   1999   Total              1931    1997    1398    1999    Total   1993    1997    1993    1999    Total
1. Invedment Cods
A. Inteml T. A.
LongTerm TA                  uni-
Mid tem TA                   uni                                                                                         -
FInal Evskton TA             unl         -      -              2      2  35,000        -        -       -    70.0    70.0         -       -       -    83.6    83 6
Mont lg  dEvalualion         unit        1      1       1      -      3  35.000    35.0    35.0    35.0          -   1050    38.2    39.3    40.5             1181
Technlal Support             unit        I      1       1             3  35,000    35.0    35.0    35.0          -   105.0    38.2    39.3    40.5             1181
Subtotal Itrml T. A.                                                                   70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0   280.0    76.4    78.7    81.1    836    3197
B. Local Short btwm TA
Admin.-Fn. & Comp. Speclak    unt        2       -      -             2   2.500       5.0                *       -      5.0     55        -                -     55
Manicrlng rd Evsluon         unit        I      1       1      1      4  30,000    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   120.0    32.7    33.7    34.7    35 8    137 0
Prvee Secor Suppowt          unit        1      1             -      3   2,500       2.5     2.5      2.5       -     7.5      2.7     2.8      2.9       -     8 4
Suppottbhic.Gen.AAd.         unit        I      1       1      -      3   2.500       2.5     2.5      2.5              75      2.7     2.8      2.9       -     8.4
Suboal Local Short tem TA                                                              40.0    35.0    35.0    30.0   1400       43.7    39.3    405      358    1594
C. Personnel DE /a
DlrselurEx6culf           MaaVnths      12     12      12     12     48 1,263.75     15.2    15.2    15.2    15.2    60.7    166       17.0    176      181     693
Dhreur, Exicutf Adoind    MaiVmlhs      12     12      12     12     48      750      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0    36.0      9.8    10.1    10.4    10 7    41.1
Responsables desPrPet     MaenInit      12     12      12     12     48      625      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5    30.0      8.2     8.4      8.7     90    34 3
ResporsabldeDkwtion       Manhofhs      36     36     36      36    144      521     18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    75.0    20.5    21.1    21.7    22.4    857
Accountanl                M     uaaVnfh  36    36      36     36    144  159.75       5.8     5.8      5.8     5.8    23.0      6.3     65       67      89    26.3
Adminlesa Ag nt           Manimh        12     12      12     12      48     150      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      7.2     2.0     20       2.1     21      82
CompuItf SpeCl            Mau*dhs       24     24     24      24     96      200      4.8     4.8      48      4.8    19.2      5.2     54       5.6     57     219
Coordodwbaote des bavux    Ma,Vaths     24     24     24      24     96      250      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0    24.0      6.5     6.7      69      7.2    27.4
Su&EvaluaUionAssistar     MaVnmthe      12     12      12     12     48      200      2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4      9.6     2.6      2.7     2.8     29      It0
Subtotal Personnel DE                                                                  71.2    71.2    71.2    71.2   284.7    77.7    80.0    82.4    85 0   3251
D. Vehicles
Safa                         unl                        -      4      4   7,500             -            .    30.0    30.0                -        -    37.7    37.7
4 WD ch                      unlt                -      I      1      2  20,000                       20.0    20.0    40.0                      24.4    25 1    49.5
4WD Leh                      Unit            -          -      I       1  32.500        -       -        -    32.5    32.5        -                     40 8    40.8
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                 -    20.0    82.5   102.5         -             24.4   103.7   12861
E. Soial Fund PrOcts           unk         -       -      -      -       .                    .        .       .       .            .        .



MADAGASCAR                                                                 ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORATE
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantities            Unit Cost           Ease Cost (USS '000)                          USS '000)
F. Equipment
BLU avec Modem              unI         - k-                  .      -
Tenion Regublate            unit        .      .       .                                               .                                                -
Phitocoplers                unit        ,              .             1   4,500              4.5            -         4.5              5.3       -       -     5.3
Capels und Accessories      unit        -      -      4       4      8   6,625        -       -    26.5    26.5    53.0                -    32.2    33.2    65.4
Subtotal Equlpment                                                                            4.5    26.5    26.5    57.5        -      5.3    32.2    33.2    70.7
Ddplace,neu            MuVlths       12     12     12      12     48   833.5    10.0    100       10.0    10.0    40.0    10.5    11 1    11.4    11.8    451
M    hsso               Ma.Vmt       12     12      12     12     48 1,686.75    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    80.0    21.5    22.2    22.8    23.6    90.1
Inurane                  ysar-y       1      1      1       1      4   7,000      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    28.0     7.5      7.8     80      8.3   31.5
Tulsoommunlctio Chwges  blt          a      6       a      6     24   833.5      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0    20.0      5.4     5.5     5.7     59    22.5
Ow edwndl chdrgs         Yeay         1      1       1      1      4   2.250      2.3     2.3      2.3     2.3     9.0      2.4     2.5     2.6     2.7    10.1
Subttad Mantrence                                                                 173.5   173.5   173.5   173.5   694.0   186.8   192.4   198.2   204.5   782.0
2. Staff
Sacrelar               MagVmlhs    36       36     36      36    144     111      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0    16.0      4.3     4.4     4.6     4.7    180
Akds-Eveluor            Mavmft                                                              -        - *  -          -       -
Drhves                 Ma uimt       48     48     48      48    192   67.71      3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3    13.0      3.5     3.6     3.7     3.8    14.6
Gutwd                   Mrnimths     48     48     48      48    192  78.125      3.8      3.8     3.8     3.8    15.0      4.0     4.2     4.3     4.4    16.9
Subtotal Staff                                                                     11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    44.0    11.8    12.2    12.6    13.0    49.6
Total Recufr ntCosts                                                                  184.    184.5   184.5   184.5   738.0   198.7   2046    210.8   217.5   831.5
Total                                                                                  383.2   382.7   414.7   464.7  1,645.2   415.5   427.7   480.1   558.7  1,882.0



MADAGASCAR                                                                   ANNEX Vill
Page 3 of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - ANTANANARIVO
Detailed Costs CUSS '000)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000)             Totals Including Conlingencies (USS '000_
Unit   1936   1937   1993   1999   Total             1996    1997    199t    1999    Total   1996    1997    1999    1999    Total
I. Invesdment Costs
A. International T. A.
LongTainr TA                unit
lAd term TA                 unit
Fka Evauktlon TA            Unlt
Monitoring and Evalution    unit
Ted l Support              unit
Subtotal tnterational T. A.
B. Local Short terrn TA
Suppwort to Inc. Gen. Act,  uni-
Admin.-Fin. & Comp. Special    unit      -      -       -      -       -               -        -       -                                 -
Monitoring and Evalkation   unit         -      -       - 
Prvae Sedor Support         unit
Subtotal Local Short term TA
C. Personnel DOR Tsn
DlrectetxR6gWanl          Ubn/mthc     12      12      12     12     48 666.75       8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0    32.0      8.7     9.0      9 3     9.6    36.5
Responsbbs deServices   Mnt/mths       36      36     36      36    144  312.5    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    450          12.3    12.6    13.0    134       514
Accountant                MrVmnths      12     12      12     12      48   187.5     2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3     9.0      2.5     2.5      2.6     2.7    10 3
Coordonnateur de Trmux   Manmths       36      36     36      36    144   194.5      7.0      7.0     7.0      70     28.0      7.6     7.9      8 1     8 4    32.0
Repr6ntartSc. Corn.       MaVmths       12     12      12     12      48  208.5      2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5    10.0      2.7      28      29      30      11.4
ASetariSwvlePromotion   MaUnmths       12     12      12     12      48  208.5      25       25      25       2.5    10.0      2.7     2.8      29      30      11 4
Subtotal Personnel DR Tans                                                            33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5   134.0    36 6       37.7    38 8     40.0   1531
D. Social Furnd Projects
Priwte Secor Suwport       Yearly                                                   68 0     68.0    68.0    68.0   272.0    73.2    75.4    77 7    80.1   306 5
Infrastucure Proec         Yearly                                                 1,728.3  1,728.3  1,728.3  1,728.3  8,913.4  1,861.1  1,916.9  1,974.4  2,0370  7.7895
Inc. Gen. Act.             Yearly                                                  130.0   1300    130.0   130.0   520.0   140.0   144.2   148.5   153.2   5859
Subtotal Social Fund Projects                                                       1,928.3  1,926.3  1,926.3  1,926.3  7,705.4  2,074.3  2,136.5  2,200 6  2,270.4  8,681 9
E. FID Sub-Proects Conutnts   unit                                                   1920    192.0   192.0   192.0   768.2   206.8   213.0   219.4   226.3   8655
F. Vehkls
4 WO cch                    unit         -                     -       120,000                  -    20 0             20.0        -             24.4             24 4
4WD Lch                     unit             -          3              3 32,500                      97.5             97 5                     119.0        -   119 0
Mtor Cross                  unit         -      -              2       2  3,750        -        -       -      7.5      7.5       -        .       -      9.4     94
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                 -   1175       7.5   125.0        -            143.4      9.4   152.8



MADAGASCAR                                                                ANNEX Vill
Page 4 of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - ANTANANARIVO
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
Quantities           Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000)           Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
Unt    1396   1997   1993   1999   Total           1996    1997    1993    1999    Total   1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
Photocopers                uni                -      1      -      1  4,500        -             4.5             4.5        -       -     5.5 5     -     5.5
Tension Regubateur         unit            -                            -              -           -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
Mchie A 6crlre             unit        -      -      -      -              -           -
Machine  reiure            unit                   -             -          -           -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Office Furniture           unit               -      -      -                      -       -           -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Teephone and Fax           unit
BLU avec Modem             unit
Subtotal Equipment                                                                           -    37.6       -    37.6        -       -    45.8       -    45.8
H.Tradning                  yearly                                                15.0    10.0     5.0       -    30.0    16.4    11.2      5.8       -    33.4
Total Investment Costs                                                            2,166.9  2,161.9  2,312.0  2,159.4  8,800.2  2,334.1  2,398.4  2,653.7  2,546.2  9,932.4
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Cost
1. Maintenance
Computer maintenance    yearly                                                 1.4      1.4     1.4     1.4     5.5     1.5     15      1.6      16     6 2
Vehike maintenance      yealy                                                 31.3    31.3    31.3    31.3   125.0    33.7    34.7    35.7    368    1408 8
Rent                    Month       12     12     12     12    48 666.75       8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0    32.0     8.6     8.9     9.1     9 4    36.1
Ofice Suppies            year        I      1      1      1      4  6.250      6.3     6.3      6.3     6.3    25.0     6.7     6.9     7.1     7.4    28.2
D1placements           Man/mths      1      1      1      1      4  2.500      2.5     2.5      25      2.5    10.0     2.7     28      2.9     29      11.3
Misons                 Manwnths     12     12     12     12    48 .666.75    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    80.0    21.5    22.2    22.8    23.6   90.1
Insurwnc                 yer         I      1      1      1      4  7,000      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    28.0     7.5     7.8     80      8.3   31.5
TeleconmunicationCharge  bl-mthty    6      6      6      6     24    250      1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5     6.0     1.6     1.7      1.7     1.8     6.8
Oter eodemal charges    Yearly       I      I      I      1      4  2,000      2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     8.0     2.2     2.2     2.3      2.4     9.0
Subtotal Maintenance                                                            79.9    79.9    79.9    79.9   319.5    86.0    88.6   91.3    94.1   360.0
2. Staff
Secretares             Manlmths     24     24     24     24     96    146      3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5    14.0     3.8     3.9     4 0      4.1    15.8
Alde-Evauteur          Manwmihs     12     12     12     12     48    125      1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5     6.0     1.6      1.7     1.7     1.8     6.8
Drvers                 Marvmths     48     48     48     48    192   52.1      2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5    10.0     2.7     2.8     2.9      2.9    11.3
Guards                 MarVmths    48      48     48     48    192   62.5    ,3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0    12.0     3.2     3.3      3.4     3.5    13.5
Subtotal Staff                                                                  10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    42.0    11.3    11.7    12.0    12.4    47.3
Total Recunrent Costs                                                               90.4    90.4    90.4    90.4   361.5    97.3   100.2   103.3   106.5   407.3
Total                                                                             2,257.3  2,252.3  2,402.4  2,249.8  9,161.7  2,431.4  2,498.7  2,757.0  2,652.7 10,339.7



MADAGASCAR                                                                 ANNEX VIII
Page I of 14
SOCIAL ACTION 11 PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - TOLIARY
Detailed Costs (USS O00U
Quantities             Unit Cost         Base Cost (US$ 1000)       Totals Including Contingencies (USS '00)
UnIt   1399   1317   1S3S   1393   Total             1336   1937   1333   1933   Total  1996   1997   1998   1999   Total
1. Invesl mnt Coast
A. International T. A.
LongTTnn TA               unit        -      .       .      .      .                                      .
Md term TA                unIt
Fkial Evaluon TA          unit
Monitoring and Evluation  unit
Technica Support          unit
Subtotal International T. A.
B. Local Short ten TA
Suppott to Inc. Gen. Act.  unit
Admin.-Fhi. & Comp. Specle   unit                    -      -      -                *      .      .       .      .      .       .      .      .
Monitoring and Evaadon    unit
Prvte Sr Suwort           unit
Subtotal Local Short term T
C. Personnel OR Tulear
DletaurR6gna            an/month    12      12     12      12     48      750    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   36.0    9.8   10.1   10.4   10.7   41.1
RespaneblesdesSeevces  aSnmonth    36       36     36      36    144    319.5   11.5   11.5   11.5   11.5   46.0   12.6   12.9   13.3   13.7   52.5
Accountan               an/month    12      12     12       -     36    187.5    2.3    2.3    2.3        -    6.8    2.5    2.5    2.6       -    7.6
Coordoateuwdes Travaux  an/month    36      36     3e      36    144    194.5    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   28.0    7.6    7.9    8.1    8.4   32.0
ReprentatSoc.Com.    an/month    12         12     12      12     48    208.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   10.0    2.7    2.8    29        30    11.4
AsstbntServicePromotlon   rn/month    12    12      12     12     48    208.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   10.0    2.7    2.8    2.9    3.0   11.4
Subtotal Personnel DR Tub                                                          34.8   34.8   34.8   32.5  136.8   37.9   39.1   40.2   388   156.1
0. Social Fund Projects
Prvate S Support         Yearly                                                  68.0   66.0   6.0   68.0  264.0   71.1   73.2   754    778   297.5
Infr.stncture Proects    Yearty                                                1,005.8 1,005.8 1,005.8 1,005.8 4,023.0 1,083.0 1,115.5 1,149.0 1,185.4 4,5329
Inc. Gen. Act.           Yearly                                                 121.3  121.3  121.3  121.3  485.0  130.6  134.5  138.5  142.9  546.5
Subtotal Social Fund Project                                                     1,193.0 1,193.0 1,193.0 1,193.0 4,772.0 1,284.7 1.323.2 1,362.9 1,406.1 5,376 8
E. FID Sub-Proets Conltan   unit                                                  111.8  111.8  111.8  111.8  447.0  120.3  123.9  127.7  131.7  503.7
F. Vehicles
4WODech                   unit        -      -      I       1      2   20,000       -           20.0   20.0   40.0              -   24.4   25.1   49.5
4WD Lch                   unit                      3              3   32.500       -      -   97.5           97.5           -     119.0      -  119.0
Motor Cross               unit               -              2      2    3,750       -              -    7.5    7.5       -      -      -    9.4    9.4
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                         -      117.5   27.5  1450        -         143.4   34.6  177.9



MADAGASCAR                                                               ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 14
SOCIAL ACTION II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - TOLIARY
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
QuantItles            Unit Cost        Base Cost (USS '000)       Totals Including Contingencles (USS '000)
UnIt  19s   1997   193   1S99   Total              1396   1997   1998   1999   Total  1996   1997   1998   1999   Tolal
Ton  Regulateur          unit
Machi d Acat             ut                        -          -      -      -       -          -      -                 -  -  - 
Machhe I relkir          unit        -      -      -      -      -               -      -      -      .      -      -              .
Offis Furnimk            unit
Teephone end Fax         unit
BLU evc Moden            unit        -      -             -      -               -      -   _         -                 .                .   _
Subtotal EquIpment                                                                 -          31.0      *   31.0      -           37.7     *   37.7
H. Trk*ing                yey                                                   15.0   10.0    5.0      -   30.0   16.4   11.2   5.8       -   33.4
Total Invesment Costs                                                           1,354.5 1,349.5 1.493.0 1.364.8 5,561.8 1,459.3 1,497.4 1,717.6 1,611.2 6,285.5
R. Recurront Costs
A. Iremental Rec. Costs
1. Maintamnce
Comptpter rnaIten_nce    Yai1y                                               1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4   5.5    1.5    1.5   1.6    1.6   6.2                 u,
Vehicls maintenace    yarly                                                 31.3   31.3   31.3   31.3  1250   33.7   34.7   35.7   36.8  140. 6i
Rent                  Month       12    12    12    12    48    312.5    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8   15.0    4.0    4.2    4.3    4.4   16.9
Offime Suppes         yearly       1      1      I      1      4    6,250    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3   25.0    6.7    6.9   7.1    7.4   28.2
D6pacement           MarVmths     1       1      1      1      4    8,250    8.3   8.3    8.3    8.3   33.0    8.9    9.2    9.4   9.7   37.2
Mssons               Man/ths    12    12    12    12    48  1.66.75   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  80.0   21.5   22.2   22.8   23.6  90.1
Inrance                Year        I      1      1      1      4    7,000    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   28.0    7.5    7.8    8.0    8.3   31.5
T    _leconimunlctlonChar  bb-nithly  6  6      6       6     24   416.75    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   10.0    2.7    2.8    2.9    2.9   11.3
Otlrws  endidrpges    Yrly         i      1      1      1      4    2,000    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    8.0    2.2    2.2    2.3    2.4    9.0
Subtotal MaIntenane                                                            82.4   82.4   82.4   82.4  329.5   88.7   91.4  94.1   97.1  371.3
2. Staff
Secrtales            MarVmths     24     24     24     24    96   145.85    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5   14.0    3.8    3.9    4.0   4.1   15.8
Alde-Evalusteur      Malrrths    12    12    12    12    48           125    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    6.0    1.6    1.7   1.7    1.8   6.8
DfIer                MaVmfth     60      60     60    60    240   41.675    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   10.0    2.7    2.8    2.9    2.9   11.3
Guards               Manhmft     48      48     48     48    192   81.225    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9   11.8    3.2    3.3    3.4    35    13.2
Subtol Staff                                                                   10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4   41.8   11.2   11.6   11.9   12.3  47.1
Tot Recurrent Costs                                                                92.8   92.8   92.8   92.8  371.3   99.9  102.9  106.0  109.4  418.3
Total                                                                            1,447.3 1,442.3 1,585.8 1,457.6 5,933.0 1,559.2 1,600.4 1,823.7 1,720.6 6,703.8



MADAGSCAR                                                                 ANNEX VWI
Page 7 of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - TOAMASINA
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000)             Totals Including Contingencies (USS '00)
UnK    1996   1337   1998   1999   Total              1996    1997    1993    1999    Total   1996    1997    1999    1999    Total
L Invesrment Costs
A. InternatIonal T. A.
LongTerm TA                 unit                -        .            -                                                 .        .       .
Mld term TA                 unR-
Final Evalion TA            unit        -              .                           -       -                        .    .               .       .
Monitorig and Evaluation    unit
Technical Supporl           unit
Subtotal Inerneatonel TA.
B. Local Short term TA
Support to Inc. Gen. Act.   unit
Admin.-Fin. b Cornp. Specialist   unit                                      -       . .  .                                                                             v
MonitorIng nd EvkalBon      unit
Privte Sector Support       uni
Subtotal Local Short term TA
C. Personnel DR Tomasina
Olredeur Rglonal          Man/mtha     12      12     12     12     48    583.5      7.0      7.0     7.0     7.0    28.0      7.6     7.9     8.1      8.4    32.0
Responsabbs de Servkes    Man'mh       36     36      38     36    144       250     8.0      9.0     9.0     9.0    36.0      9.8    10.1    10.4    10.7   41.1
Accountard                MarVmth      12      12     12     12     48  104.175       1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3      5.0     1.4     1.4      1.4     1.5    5.7
Coordomnetet desT Tmvux    Mandfths    24     24      24      -    72   218.75        5.3     5.3     5.3             15.8     5.7     5.9     6.1        -    17.7
Rsprwntnt Soc. Com.       Ma,Vmths     12      12     12     12     48  208.325       2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5    10.0      2.7     2.8     2.9      3.0    11.4
Assltant ServicePromolon    MerVrmhs   12      12     12     12      48  166.675      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     8.0     2.2     2.2      2.3     2.4    9.1
Subtotal Pars. DR Toarnaslna                                                           27.0    27.0    27.0    21.8   102.8    29.5    30.4    31.3    26.0   117.1
D. Social Fund Projects
PrIe Secor Support         Yearly                                                    52.5    52.5    52.5    52.5   210.0    56.5    58.2    600       61.9   236.6
Infratnicture Projects      Yearly                                                1,060.9  1.080.9  1,060.9  1,060.9  4,243.5  1,142.4  1,176.8  1,211.9  1,250.3  4,781.3
Inc. Gen. Act.             Yearly                                                    82.5    82.5    82.5    82.5   330.0    88.8    91.5    94.2    97.2   371.8
Subtotal Social Fund Projects                                                       1,195.9  1,195.9  1,195.9  1,195.9  4,783.5  1,287.7  1,326.4  1,366.2  1,409.5  5,389.7
E. FID Sub-Projecs Consuibnts    uni                                                  117.9   117.9   117.9   117.9   471.5   126.9   130.7   134.7   138.9   531.3
F. Vehicles
4 WD och                    unit         -      -      -      I       1   20,000                -       -    20.0    20.0                         -    251    25.1
4WD Lch                     unit            -          -      3       3   32,500        -       -       -    97.5    97.5                -            122.1   122.1
Motor Cros                  un.                 ,         .   2       2    3,750        -       -       .      7.5     7.5       -        -       -     9.4    9.4
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                         ,               - 125.0   125.0          -        -           156.6   156.6



MADAGSCAR                                                                 ANNEX VIII
Page  of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - TOAMASINA
Detailed Costs (USS 000)
Quantitles             Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000a            Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
Unit   1936   1997   1399   1939   Total              1396    1997    1393    1999    Total   1996    1997    1996    1999    Total
Tension Regubteur           unit
Machine  ecrhir             unit
Mahne A rdlure              unit
Offlce Furniue              unit
TdeIphone and Fax           unit
BLU evec Modem              unit
Subtotal Equlpnent                                                                               -    37.6             37.6               -    45.8       -    45.8
H. Trantg                    yeary                                                     3.8     6.3    11.3             21.3     4.1     7.0    13.0       -    24.1
Total lInvestnt Costs                                                                1,344.5  1,347.0  1.389.6  1,460.5  5,541.6  1,448.2  1.494.5  1,590.9  1,731.0  6.264.6
II. Recurent Costs
A. ncremeta Recurrent Costs
1. Maintenance
Computer mAintnce        yeary                                                     1.4     1.4     1.4      1.4     5.5     1.5     1.5     1.6     1.6    6.2
Vehices mnahtnance       yarty                                                    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0    26.9    27.7    28.6    29.5   112.7
Rent                     MoNthl      12     12     12      12     48      521      6.3     6.3     6.3     6.3    25.0      6.7     6.9     7.1     7.4   28.2       X
OfficeSupplis            yeau         1      1      1       1      4    3,750      3.8     3.8     3.8     36      150      4.0     4.2     4.3     4.4    16.9
Diplacemants             Yerly        I      1      1       1      4    4,500      4.5     4.5     4.5      4.5    18.0     4.8     5.0    5.1      5.3   20.3
Mbssons                 Man/mtha     12     12     12      12     48  1,145.75    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    S5.0    14.8    15.2    15.7    16.2   62.0
Insuranoe                 year        1      I      I       1      4    6.500      6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5    26.0      7.0     7.2     7.4     7.7    29.3
Teieoammuncation Charges  bWnthi      6      6      6       6     24      250      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5    6.0      1.6     1.7     1.7      1.8    6.8
Othtrwedarnacharges      Yeary        I      I      I       1      4    1.250      1.3     1.3     1.3      1.3     5.0     1.3     1.4     1.4      1.5    56
Subtotal Maintenance                                                                63.9    83.9    63.9    63.9   255.5    68.8    70.8    73.0    75.3   287.9
2. Staff
Secretres               Manrnths     24     24     24      24     96    93.75      2.3     2.3     2.3      2.3     9.0     2.4     2.5     2.6      2.7   10.1
Ake-Evahuteur           Manntmhs     12     12      12     12     48      125      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5     6.0     1.6     1.7      1.7     1.8    6.8
Drvers                  Marvmths     48     48     48      48    192   41.675      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     8.0     2.2     2.2     2.3      2.4    9.0
Guards                  Manlmrhs     46     46     46      46    192    56.25      2.7     2.7     2.7      2.7    10.8     2.9     3.0    3.1       3.2    12.2
Subtotal Staff                                                                       8.5     8.5     8.5      8.5    33.8     9.1     9.4     9.7    10.0   38.1
Totai Recurrent Costs                                                                   72.3    72.3    72.3    72.3   289.3    77.9    80.2    82.6    85.2   3260
Total                                                                                 1,416.8  1,419.3  1F,462.0  1,532.8  5,830.9  1.5261  1,574.7  1,673.5  1,816.2  e,590s



MADAGSACAR                                                                  ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - MAHAJANGA
Detailed Costs (USS '00)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS V00)             Totals Including Contingencis (US$ '000)
UnIt   1336   1337   1S98   1333   Total             1936    1337    1993    1939    Total   1396    laS?    199S    1999    Total
1. Invesment Coats
A. International T. A.
LongTerm TA                 unit               -          -          -                    -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Mld term TA                unit
Final Evalustion TA        unN
Montoring and Evaluation   unRt
Technical Support          uni
Subtotal International TA-
B. Local Short terrn TA
Support to Inc. Gen. Act.  unit
Admln.-Fin. a Comp. Special   unit             -      -       *      -                        -            .       .       .-                   .       .       .
Monitorng and Evaluation   uni          -      -                                                       .       .                ,       ,       , - 
Private Sedor Support      unit
Subtotal Local Short term TA
C. Personnel DR Mahajungs
Direcleur Rgobn"         MarVmths     12      12     12     12      48   583.5      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    25.0      7.6     7.9     8.1      8.4    32.0
Responabes des Services   Mnmths      36      38     36     3      144     250      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0    36.0      9.8    10.1    10.4    10.7    41.1
Accountnts               MarVmths      12     12     12      12     48  104.25      1.3      1.3     1.3     1.3      5.0     1.4     1.4      1.4     1.5     5.7
CoordorwateurdesTravaux   MarVmths    36      36     36     36    144  145.625      5.2     5.2      5.2     5.2    21.0      5.7     5.9     6.1      6.3    24.0
RepresentartSoc.Com.     Mannmths     12      12     12     12      48   208.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5    10.0      2.7     2.8     2.9      3.0    11.4
AasWtSmnAcePronoon   MarVmft          12      12     12      12     48  166.75      2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      8.0     2.2     2.2      23      2.4     9.1
Subtotal Pe rDR Mahajunga                                                            27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0   108.0    29.5    30.4    31.3    32.3   123.4
D. Social Fund Prolects
Prvate Sedor Support      Yearly                                                  .38.8    38.8    38.8    38.8   155.0    41.7    43.0    44.3    45.7   174.6
Infrasuctre Projects       Yearly                                                 912.4   912.4   912.4   912.4  3,649.5   962.5  1,011.9  1,042.3  1,075.3  4,112.0
Inc. Gen. Act.            Yearly                                                   92.5    92.5    92.5    92.5   370.0    99.6   102.6   105.7   109.0   416.9
Subtotal Social Fund Proj.                                                         1,043.6  1.043.6  1,043.6  1,043.6  4,174.5  1,123.8  1,157.5  1,192.2  1,230.0  4,703.6
E. FID Sub-Projects Consultants   unit                                              101.4   101.4   101.4   101.4   405.5   109.2   112.4   115.8   119.5   456.9
F. Vehicles
4 WDr ch                    uni            -                   1    1  20,000        .       .        ,    20.0    20.0        -       .             25.1    25.1
4WD Lch                     unRt               -       -      3      3  32,500                 -       -    975    97.5         *       -        -   122.5   122.5
Motor Cross                unR          -      -       -      2      2   3,750        -        .       -     7.5      7.5               .              9.4     9.4
Subtotal Vehkles                                                                                              1 -  *   125.0   125.0  -   -        -   157.1   157.1



MADAGSACAR                                                                   ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - MAHAJANGA
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (US$ '000)             Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
Unit   1338   1337   1398   1393   Total              1196    1997    1993    1999    Total   1996    13$1    1998    1999    Total
Tenslon Regulateur          unit        -       -      -       -      -                                     -        -       -       -        -
Machine A crlre             unit
Machine i rellure           unit
Office Fumiture             uni
Telephone and Fax           unit
BLU avvc Modem              unit
Subtotal Equlpnent                                                                       -        -    376        -    37.6        -        -    45.8        -    45.8
H. Trining                   yearly                                                    3.8      6.3    11.3       -    21.3      4.1      7.0    13.0        -    24.1
Total lnvesbment Costs                                                                1,175.8  1,178.3  1,220.9  1,297.0  4,871.9  1,266.5  1,307.3  1,398.1  1,538.8  5,510.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. incremntal Rec. Costs
1. Maintenance
Computer maintenance     yearly                                                    1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4     5.5      1.5     1.5     1.6      1.6     6.2
Vehickles maintenance    yeary                                                    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0    26.9    27.7    28.6    29.5   112.7
Rent                     Month       12     12      12     12      48     521      8.3      6.3    683       .3    25.0      6.7      6.9     7.1      7.4    28.2       0'
Office Supplies          yearly       I      1       1      1       4   3.750      3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8    15.0      4.0     4.2     4.3      4.4    16.9
1piplcements           MarVmths       1      1       1      1       4   6,750      6.8      6.8     6.8      6.8    27.0      7.3     7.5     77       8.0    30.4
Misons                 Marvmtns      12     12      12     12      48 1,145.75    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    55.0    14.8    15.2    157         16.2    620
Insurance                yearly       1      1       1      1       4   6,500      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5    26.0      7.0     7.2     7.4      7.7    29.3
Tebcom. Charges         bi-mthiy      6      6       6      6      24     250      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     6.0      1.6     1.7      1.7     1.8     6.8
Othierextemalcharges     Yeary        1       1      1      1       4    1,250     13       1.3     1.3      1.3     5.0      1.3     1.4      1.4     1.5     5.6
Subtotal MaIntenance                                                                66.1    66.1    661       66.1   264.5    71.2    73.3    75.5    77.9   298.0
2. stall
Secretaries            Mantmths      24     24      24     24      96   93.75      2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3     9.0      2.4     2.5     2.6      2.7    10.1
AkieEvaluateur         Marvmths      12      12     12      12     48     125       1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5     6.0      1.6     1.7      1.7     1.8     6.8
Drves                  MarVmths      60     60      60     60    240  33.325       2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     8.0      2.2     2.2      2.3     2.4     9.0
Guards                 MarVmths      48     48      48     48    192  46.875       2.3      23      23       2.3     9.0      2.4     2.5      2.6     2.7    10.1
Subtotal Staff                                                                       8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0    32.0      6.6     8.9      9.1     9.4    36.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                    74.1    74.1    74.1    74.1   296.5    79.8    82.2    84.7    87.4   334.1
Total                                                                                  1,249.9  1,252.4  1,295.0  1,371.1  5,168.4  1,346.4  1,389.5  1,482.8  1,626.2  5,844.9



MADAGASCAR                                                               ANNEX VUI
Page 11 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - FINARANTSOA
Detailed Costs (US$ 100)
Quantities            Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS 1000)            Totals Including Conting ncles (US$ 100)
Unit   199S   1997   1S53   1S99   Total             1S9S    1937    199S    1999    Total   19396    1997    1993    1S99    Total
1. Invesment Costs
A. Intwnational T. A.
LongTerm TA                unit
Mid tern TA                unit
Fined Evaluation TA        unit               -                      -              -            -                   -               -
Monirng and Evaluation     unit
Technlal Support           unit
Subtotal lntrnatloal TA.
B. Local Short wnn TA
Support to Inc. Gen. Act,  unit
Admin.-Fin. & Comp. Specimils   unik
Monitorng and Evaluaon     unit        -             -              -                                        -
Prvate Sector Support      unit
Subtotal Local Short term TA
C. Personnel DR Flbnarantsoe
Dor cteurRglonal         an/month    12      12     12    12    48   583.25        7.0     7.0     7.0     7 0    28.0      7.6     7.9     8.1     8.4   32.0
ResponsablbedesServkce    arVmonth    36     36     36     36    144       250     9.0     9.0     9.0     90    360        9.8   10.1    10.4    10.7   41.1
Accountant               an/rmonth    12     12     12     12    48   104.25       1.3      1.3     1.3     1.3     50      1.4    1.4      1.4     1.5    5.7
Coordonnateur de Travaux    snhmonth    24   24     24     24     96   218.75      5.3     5.3   53        5.3    21.0    5.7      5.9    6.1      6.3   24.0
Reprdeeta Soc. Corn.     anmonth    12       12     12     12    48    208.5       2.5     2.5     25       2.5    100      2.7     2.8     2.9     3.0   11.4
AsstantServlcePromation   ardmonth    12     12    12      12    48   168.75       2.0     2.0      2.0     20      80      2.2    2.2      2.3     2.4    9.1
Subtotal Pas DR Flanarantso                                                         27.0    27.0    27.0    27i0   1080    29.5    30.4    31.3    32.2   123.3
D. Social Fund Projects
Prnte Sector Support      Yeauly                                                  71.3    71.3    71.3    71.3   285.0    76.7    79.0    81.4    84.0  321.1
Infrastructure Prolect     Yearty                                               1,440.0  1,440.0  1.440.0  1,440.0  5,760.0 1i550.6 1i597.1  1,645.1  1,697.2  6.490.0
Inc. Gen. Act.            Yerly                                                  122.5   122.5   122.5   122.5   490.0   131.9   135.9   139.9   144.4   5521
Subtotal Socil Fund Projects                                                      1,633.8  1633.8  1,633   1633.8  6,535.0  1.759.3  1,812.0  1 ,86.4  1,925.5  7,363.2
E. FID Sub-Projects Consultarts   unit                                              160.0   1600   1600   160.0   640.0   172.3   177.5   182.8   188.6  721.1
F. Vehicles
4 WD cch                   unit.                -     -      1      1   20.000       -       -       -    20.0    20.0        -       -       -    25.1   25.1
4WD Ldh                    unil                -            3       3   32500        -       -             97.5    97.5       -       -       -   122.5  122.5
Motor Cros                 unil                             2       2    3,750       -                -     7.5     7.5               -       -     9.4    94
Subotl Vehicles                                                                        -       -            125.0   125.0               -   -        1571   157.1



MADAGASCAR                                                                ANNEX VHI
Page 12 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - FINARANTSOA
Detailed Costs (USS 000)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (US S '00)            Totals Including Contingenies (US$S W0)
Unit   1916   1997   1939   1999   Total             1136    1997    1993   1939    Total   1996    f997    1991    1999    Total
Tension Regutbeur           unit               -      -          -           -            -           -            -       -       -    -               -
Maci a ecrire               unit                   -                  -       -       -           -        -           -
MachFie A relire            unit
Ofie Fumniu                 unit
Telphone and Fox            unit
BLU avec Modem              unit
Subtotal Equipment                                                                              -    37.6             37.6       -       -    45.8             45.8
H. Trenln                    yeury                                                    3.8     6.3    11.3             2 21.3    4.1    7.0    13.0             24.1
Total Investmen Costs                                                                1,824.5  1,827.0  1,869.6  1.945.8  7,466.9  1,965.1  2,026.9  2.139.2  2303.4  8,434.7
n. Recurent Costs
A. Incrernni Rec. Costs
1. Maintnenane
Computermakitnance       yeerly                                                   1.4      1.4     1.4     1.4     5.5      1.5     1.5     1.6     1.6    6.2    co
Vehices mintnanc         yarly                                                   25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0    26.9    27.7    28.6    29.5   112.7
Rant                     Month      12      12     12     12     48    312.5      3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8    15.0     4.0      4.2     4.3     4.4    169
ofic Suppe               yearly      I       I      1      1      4    3,750      3.8      3.8     3.8     3.8    15.0     4.0      4.2     4.3     4.4    16.9
ODpbacments            MaiVmths      1       1      1      1      4    1,000      1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0     4.0      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.2    4.5
Mssbins                MarVmt        12     12     12     12     48  1,145.75    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    55.0    14.8    15.2    15.7    16.2   62.0
Insurance                yeary       I       1      1      1      4    6,500      6.5      6.5     6.5     6.5    2e.0     7.0      7.2     7.4     7.7    29.3
TelacommunlcaUonCharge  bi-tNy       6       6      6      6     24       250      1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5     6.0      1.6     1.7     1.7     1.8    6.6
Othetemlcarlwg.          Yearly      I       1      1      1      4    1,250       1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3     5.0      1.3     1.4     1.4     1.5    5.6
Subtotal MaIntenance                                                               57.9    57.9    57.9    57.9   231.5    62.3    64.2    86.1    68.2  260.8
2. Staff
Scretaries             MarVmths     24      24     24     24     96    93.75      23       2.3     2.3     2.3     9.0     2.4      2.5     2e      27    10o1
Aide-Evaluataur        Mannmhi    12        12     12     12      48      125      1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5     6.0      1.6     1.7     1.7     1.8    6.6
Drtvers                 URn/n       48      48     48     48    192    41.75      2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     8.0      2.2     2.2     2.3     2.4    9.0
Guards                 mapnmthi     48      48     48     4e    192   46.675       2 .3    23      2.3     23      90       2.4     2.5     2.6     2.7   10.1
Subtotal Staff                                                                      8.0      8.0     8.0     8 0    32.0      8.8     8.9     9.1     9.4   35.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                   65.9    65.9    65.9    65e9   263.5    70.9    73.1    75.3    77.6   296.9
Total                                                                                 1,890.4  1,8929  1,935.5  2,011.6  7,730.4  2,038.1  2,099.9  2,214.5  2,381.1  8,731 6



MADAGASCAR                                                                  ANNEX Vill
Page 13 of 14
SOCIAL FUND 11 PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - ANTISIRANANA
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
Quantities             Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000)            Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
UnIt    1936   1S97   139S   1S93   Total            1936    1937    1993    1399    Total   1996    1997    1999    1999    Total
I. lnvesbnent Costs
A. International TA.
LongTerm TA                  unit
Mid term TA                  unit
Fhal Evauamton TA            unit
Monitoring and Evaluation    unit
Technical Support            unit        -       -             -       -               -        -       -        -
Subtotal InternatIonal TA
B. Local Short term TA
Support to Inc. Gen. Act,    unit
Adrrln.-Fln. & Comp. SpecIalist   unit
Monitoring arid Evaluaton    unit        -          -       -                       -               -                                     -
PrIvae Sector Support        unit            -   -                 -                    -               -        -       -       -        -       -       -
Subtotal Local Short tefn TA
C. Personnel DR Anteiranana
DlrecteurRdgionl           Msn/mlha     12     12      12     12      48  583.25      7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0    28.0     7.6      7.9     8.1     8.4    320
Responsabes des Servces    Man/tmthe    36     36      36     36    144      250      9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0    36.04    9.8    10.1    10.4    10.7    41.1
Accountant                 Mantmths     12     12      12     12      48  104.25      1.3     1.3      1.3     1.3     5.0      1.4     1.4     1.4     1.5      5.7
CoordonnatKurdesTravaux    Manr/mthe    24     24      24     24     96  218.75       5.3     5.3     5.3      5.3    21.0     5.7      5.9     6.1     6.3    24.0
Reprteneant Soc. Corn.    Mnfmrths      12     12      12     12     48   208.5       2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5    10.0     2.7      2.8     2.9     3.0    11.4
Assstanl Servlce Promotlon    Man/mths  12     12      12     12      48   16675      20      20      20       2.0     8.0     2.2      2.2     23      24       9.1
Subtotal Pers. OR Antsiranana                                                          27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0   106.0    29.5    30.4   31 3    32.2   123.3
0. Social Fund Projects
PrIvateSector Support       Yearly                                                   400     400     400      40.0   160.0    431      444     457     471    180.3
Infrustructue Proects       Yearly                                                  8393    8393    8393    839.3  3357.0   9037    9308    9588    989 1  3,782.5
Inc. Gen. Act.              Yearly                                                   696     698     698      698    279.0    75.1    77.4    797      82.2   3144
Subtotal Social Fund Projects                                                         949.0   949.0   949.0   949.0  3,796.0  1,021.9  1,052.6  1,084.1  1,118.5  4.277.1
E. FID Sub-Projects Consuitants    unit                                                93.3    93.3    93.3    93.3   373.0   100.4   103.4   106.5   1099   4203
F. Vehicles
4 WD cch                     unit         -      -      -       1      1  20,000        -       -        -    20 0    20.0        -       -             25.1    25.1
4WD Lch                      unit                       -      2       2  32,500                              65.0    65.0                -        -    81.7    81.7
Motor Crons                  unit                       -      2       2   3.750        -                      7.5      7.5                   -          9.4     9.4
Subtotal Vehkles                                                                          -        -            92.5    92.5        -       -            115.2   116.2



MADAGASCAR                                                                ANNEX VilI
Page 14 of 14
SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE - ANTISIRANANA
Detailed Costs (USS '000)
QuantHties            Unit Cost           Base Cost (USS '000)            Totals Including Contingencles (USS '00)
Uni    1998   1997   1998   1999   Total            1996    1997    199S    1999    Total   1996    1997    1993    1999    Total
Tension Regulateur           unK         -      -             -       -                   -       -            -               -       -       -        -      -
MacNne A icdre               unit
MacN  A rellwe               unit
Offmce Furniture             unit
Tebphone and Fax             unit                          -           -      -       -           -        -           -       -               -        -
BLU amc Modem                unit
Subtotal EquIpment                                                                              -    31.0        -    31.0       -             37.7       -    37.7
H. TraIning                   yearly                                                  3.8     6.3    11.3        -    21.3     4.1     7.0    13.0       -    24.1
Total lnvesnent Costs                                                                1,073.0 .1,075.5  1,111.5  1,161.8  4,421.8  1,155.9  1,193.4  1.272.7  1,376.9  4,998.8
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Rec. Costs
1. Maintenance
Computr m Intenance       yearly                                                  1.4      1.4     1.4     1.4     5.5     1.5      1.5     1.6     1.6    6.2
Vehicls maIntenance       yearly                                                 25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0    26.9    27.7    28.6    29.5   112.7
Rent                      Month      12      12     12     12     48   312.5      3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8    15.0     4.0     4.2      4.3     4.4    16.9
Oft* Supplke              yearly      I       1      1      1      4   3.750      3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8    15.0     4.0      4.2     4.3     4.4    16.9
D4plcernets             Man/mths      I      1       1      1      4   4,500      4.5     4.5      4.5     4.5    18.0     4.8     5.0      5.1     5.3    20.3
Misaons                 ManVmths     12      12     12     12     48 1,145.75    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    55.0    14.8    15.2    15.7    18.2   62.0
Insurance                 yeay        I       i      1      1      4   7,000      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    28.0     7.5      7.8     8.0     8.3    31.5
Telc hmLcstlonCharges  b-rnthl        8       6      8      6     24      250     1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5     6.0      1.6     1.7     1.7     1.8    6.8
Olherexteml charges      Yearly       I       I      I      1      4   1.250      1.3      1.3     1.3     1.3     5.0      1.3     1.4     1.4     1.5    5.6
Subtotal Maintenance                                                               81.9    81.9    61.9    81.9   247.5    66.6    68.6    70.7    72.9   278.9
2. Staff
Secreaiee               ban/mths     24     24      24     24     96   93.75      2.3      2.3     2.3     2.3     9.0      2.4     2.5     2.6     2.7    10.1
Akd.-Evuuatet           Manrmths                     -       -                      -       -                        -       -        -
Drivers                 Manlmths     48     48      48     48    192   41.75      2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     8.0      2.2     2.2     2.3     2.4    9.0
Guards                  Man/mths     48      48     48     48    192  46.875      2.3      2.3     2.3     2.3     9.0      2.4     2.5     2.6     2.7    10.1
Subtotal Staff                                                                      8.5      6.5     6.5     6.5    26.0      7.0     7.2     7.4     7.7    293
Total Recufent Costs                                                                   68.4    68.4    88.4    68.4   273.5    73.6    75.8    78.1    808   30.2
Totl                                                                                 1,141.4  1,143.9  1,179.9  1,230.1  4,695.3  1,229.5  1,269.2  1,350.8  1,457.5  5,307.0



IBRD 20035R1
Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                        4'
Psv.d rood.
RFoutes goous'rorrees-5
AllI-otrr rood. -d
outes occess,b/e, en tote 50'5O0                                           NOSY-BE                 Anroilob.  -
Non-p.rma-snt rood,                                                          t       '             4- V                     -oIrorna
Routes so,son,&eret                                                          _el-yl
-s------Railroads                                                                            +          
CAc-o  e Fe'                                                                           / Aton1 o
Airporct.                                                                        / /Smcv
Co ..o/ I's  f -o4...oonn                                                                                      J+
For.tny pro.nce) -op.tols                                         Analaoa0 '    I            Rlnr
Chritariy bourdrie.n                                                   AntForky/-                         4'- Anldopo 
F-tl-iey b.vnde  a                                                                                    _.,               Antoloha
L,rrr,re des Far,otar                                                                   4 \ '<e/and,isns 'o
-trren de,Fts -0
Mahalanga  +.
t         ^ it B-,Rergd             Moodritsoro
-16                                                            __                                                                                                  160
Msroooay                  Marv.ron            14       npik-n \    .
/                  Arrbotobosny0 / / /
V^oop                       Mos.otanans J              4'nnrdtaflnan     nneooIoo              riORO
/    ~~~~~~~A.tb y                           I                                      '
/                                                              Arrd,Iar.rlsn . .         ,'   4' A- NboSiaotor
I                              \         r~~~~~~~~~~~~Asdr,orrrne     L.>Fsroarvo Ats'onaona
vJ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           N-6..hob  At--- 
Msinlirano /+ora                   s                                               4 r mb' tondr       a
N                                     Arrkasot4, Aniomorob.O .A  nToamasina
~~         4' ~~~~>              A~nn        no    Iv
Ti.--didy ~ ~ ~~~Mn1k                         -..4 dormjror
Tsirosnorrrarrdidy Mi      aarvod     i flnnOn    00
/J                   Soasrnondriano~r    4 A ro  IAndomoslf Moorongo )         on
/   Miondrivozo_                 Foasiko       A^Abndrml     s         4'4 VotomandryA
ReIo-Tsiriblik.rbo~+r     4'~ t                                Arrmbaolomp   4Aois'l
Antstrobe4
j20(                                                                                             Mor-lo6oJ  >/<t                                                   OX
Mrorrdso         Mh1o6Mooimbondy                               F-nd-ion           /
Arb nhnordrotrrr        sbositra             NooyVarika
Mai k--                                              ifanodrohon  /'
-onin 4_-na                                  oa           I            MononiOry
_nds            0                                              )Fianora so
MAorornb.     n                        Rsd-  0rrooho              -Arbolavoo
)                          {_                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lkooS
J'                     - nko4'                IsoIhib.  N\    M^onokaro           MLS0              5
/a<t__  lcoh-b-              XVohipeno       KILOMETERtS 0      50     100    150    200
K              Sokaroho                   2I           V\             MForofongono
j   vs;                       _3et~~~~~~~gtrobs  
Toliory/   4O                                                           / Vangidraon
iPetroIt -Sod                             0sim dogy                            ZAi!-  TANZANIA
2A4                                        I                    0R.rak.
ZAZ4-  ioroS
Th~~~~~~~~                           R.hrbrtv( /rs     8iPy             /OMnnio                           /                  uS F;   ef
domihenations and  any            AnpiZI
on  this  -op   do   not
implyon  .    e port of                                       Arnbos.ry _
Th. Worid  Ban.k   Oup,                                                           Taloglaro 
any jsdgn..nt      h.                                              Amboombe                                          SOUTH 
or o-ceptofnoe of suc oRIA 
boundries.                                                                                                                       ZIAN
DECEMBE>R 199A?






I






