Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6843
e
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
June 24, 1987
General Agriculture II Division
Sout!i Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Abbreviations and Acronyms
APFC    -  Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
APSCB   -  Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Bank
ARDC    -  Agricultural Refinance & Development Corporation (now NABARD)
CMEU    -  Catch Monitoring & Evaluation Units
CP      -  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
CWPRS   -  Central Water & Power Research Station
GOAP   -  Government of Andhra Pradesh State
GOI     -  Government of India
IDA     -  International Development Association
KBBY    -  Kakinada Boat Building Yard
MFV     -  Mechanized Fishing Vessel
NABARD  -  National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development (formerly ARDC)
PCC     -  Project Coordinating Committee
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
SPD     -  State Ports Department
VPT     -  Visakhapatnam Port Trust
WB      - World Bank



FOR OFFCA  UEONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
01g.e of DvcutvCewral
Op.ratmm Evaitua
June 24, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project ComplAtion Report in India Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries Project (Credit 815-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on India Andhre Pradesh Fisheries Project (Credit 815-IN)"
prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme. Further evaluation of this
project by the Operaticas Evaluation Department har not been made.
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipbnts only In the performance
ol their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World bank audth on.



FOR OFFmCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-INF)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PRSFACE  ***v**Z¢*v*¢¢¢¢e**ve**o                                     s
BASIC DATA SHEET          .............    ............................    iv
EVALUAT10W SMM4ARY ......*....................................        v
I.  INT(RODUCTION  ..I.............. ......................    1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION & APPRAISAL  .............    2
Project Origin/Reconnaisance            2............... ......,.    2
Identification/Preparation  ........................,                2
project Dscription ................................... 4406....*    3
III.  PROJECT IMELEHENTATION  ...............       ........................  4
Loan Negotiations and Effectiveness  ........................... .   4
Projcet Changes after Appraisal  .       .eoo**o*.**...................    4
implementation Schedule  .0..000..0. 00..0..........0.0*oo.o 000.    5
Implementation of the Harbour Component  .....................       6
Implementation of other Project Components  ................... .    9
Performance of Consultants and Contractors  ....................   11
Project Cost  ** 0..............................0.......... 00   12
kroject Financing and Credit Allocation                             13
IV.  INSTI'I'WTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOLMmIT  ....,..........   13
Implementing Agencies *...0...00000000000000*00000.0000.000**0      13
Andbra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation  .0....00....e..........    14
Credit Scheme for Fishing Vessels                      .........   15
Accounting and Reporting  .................e.......... *    16
Compliance with Covenants    .,                                     17
V.  PAOJECt IM*ACT  7............  0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WMd Bank authofization.



-ii-
Intended Impact  . .... ..... .... .... *....... . ....... . .... .a ..   17
Assessment of Actual P1roject Impact  ......................,..   17
Income frcm Fishing Vessels                                         21
Economic Re-Evaluation                                              22
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE  ..................23
Overall Performance                                                 23
Supervision                                                         23
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                                     24
TABLES
1. Comparison of Appraisal and Actual Costs
2. Visakhapatnam Harbour - Actual and Anticipated Expenditures
3. Kakinada Harbour - Actual and Ar.ticipated Expenditures
4. Nizampatnam Harbour - Actual and Anticipated Expenditures
5. khysical Parameters of Principal Works
6. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
7. Banking Plan for Ve sels, and Actual Financing
8. Present Staffing of ETO's
9. APFC - Comparative Balance Sheets
10. APEC - Annual Revenue and Expenses
11.  Quick Freezing and Ice Making Facilities in Project Area
12.  Fishing Vessels in the Project Area
13. Annual Registrations of Fishing Vessels in Kakinada (Number)
14.  Average Landing Prices of Shrimp and Fish in Visakhapatnam
15. Escalation in Diesel and Lubricating Oil Prices
16.  Cash Flow Projection 23m Shrimp Trawler
17. Cash Flow Projections lOm Trawler (ROYYA)
18. Visakhaparnam - MFVs and Fish Landings Recorded
MAP
1. Location of Project Districts and Harbours
CHART
1. Implementation Schedule - Kakinada Harbour
2. Implementation Scheaule - Nizampatnam Harbour
ANNEX I - Cormments from GOI



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT (CREDIT 815-IN)
PREFACE
The following is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the second World
Bank financed fisheries project in South Asia.
The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project (Credit 815-IN) was appraised in
Septemzer/October 1977 and was approved on May 3, 1978.  The credit was signed
on June 19, 1978 and amounted to US$17.5 million as against an estimated overall
project cost of US$36.5 million equivalent (including duties and taxes) of which
the foreign exchange component was put at US$0.2 million. The credit became
effective on October 31, 1978. The project was expected to be closed by
September 30, 1984 but actually closed in March 1985. The Government of India
(GOI) and the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) were the ultimate recipients
of the credit. Final disbursement reached 57% of the total credit amount.
The PCR was originally prepared by GOAP based on a review of the
Project Appraisal Report (No. 1896a-IN) dated May 15, 1978, the President's
Report (No. P-2252-IN) dated May 17, 1978, and the Credit Agreement dated June
19, 1978. At the request of IDA, and with GOI's concurrence, FAO subsequently
prepared the attached PCR, incorporating analysis based on supervision reports
and other files, as well as interviews with some members of the appraisal
mission, supervising staff, and consultants. Key officials of GOI, GOAP, NABARD
(formerly ARDC), GFCCA, and DPF were also interviewed by the FAOI/,P PCR mission
and provided useful information.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for coments on March 5,
1987. Comments received from GOI are attached to the PCR as Annex I and their
content has been taken into consideration in the final preparation of the
report.
This report has not been subjected to audit by OED.



- Iv -
lm
(Credt 815-ZN)
Metect Cm  lotion Report
bate Data gbot
KMY PRO3ZC? DATA
Appratael                                       Actal ead
atStne                     ActWal               3 of BAR
Totel Yroeect Cost (US$ million)                  36.5                      25.66                  70
Credit Amount (us$ *illion)                       17.5                       9.9                   57
Date of Board Approwvl                        NAY 30. 1978             MaW 30* 1978
Date of 8ffectiveaez                          Oct. 31. 1978             oca. 31  1978
Date    yical COMponents C4mpleted            Match 1982                June 196
Mosing Date                                   Sept. 30. 1984           march 1985 /a
Econoic Rats of Return                            35.03                 net ecalated Lk
Inatitutional Perfomac                                                      fair
liabery Performance
STA"? INPUTS (Staff weak)
mm  ms im mF Mn l                                               F m m  ma Y
ProaPptaissl.                        2.0    3.0
Apprainl                                   46.2
Negotiation                                14.0
Supervision                                        3.5    9.3   22.2    6.3  12.0    3.9
Other (NO and N00)                                12.5  12.5   12.5   12.5  12.5  12.5         6.0   2.0    1.0
Total                               2.0   63.2   14.0   21.8   34.7   18.8   24.9   16.4       6.0   2.0    1.0
CU*STIVE DIS3URS_SJN
7!!9 iM  Ml m  m  nm  m
Appraisal BatiatO (08$ millio)                             0.5    3.79   10.42   15.66    16.6    17.5   17.S
Actual (u8s million)                                        -     1.00    2.90    6.10      7.3     8.8    9.98
Actual t  X ofatimate                                        0      26       28      39      44      50       57
Date of Final Dicburmentt  Nay 10. 1985
MISSION DATA
Date                 No. of   Nantda     Spatinatis   ltrfTe lypes of
(!-r)       sent      Parson    in tie1d kiefint3a   LA  .otiS       L    Sd Z!WLa kki   /f
Reconnaissnce        Nov-Dec/74    FAo/CP       3        90     Be D, 1
de nt./Itep.         Jul-A#S/75    FAO/CP      6        189     So DI t
Appraima             Sopt-Oct/77   IDA          7       161     Be DI 3. Y, G
Supervidion I        Sept/78       IDA          2        10     as I                 1             1
Supervision II       July/79       IDA          3        21     D, 1                 1             1
Supervision III      mar/80        IJV.         2        18     0. t                 2             1          T
Supervision IV       July/80       IM%         5         60     At 11 DIF            2             1          t
Supervision V        lab-Mr/S8    IDA           3        36     Cs D, t              2             1          F
SupervviLon VI       Ja-Feb/82    IDA           2        24     5, 0                 2             1          t
supervision VII      oct/82        IDA          3        33     8, 0D  1             2             1          t
Superviaion VIII     Mar/Apr/83    IDA          2        12     D, 1                 2             1          t
supervialon tX       Oct/83        IA           2        12     0, V                 2             3          ll
Copletion             Mar/66       lAO/Cl       3        33     5. 1
Oh1R PFOJUCS DATA
Borrower                    Government of Indie/Gaver  et of Aadhia Fradteh
Fiscal Year of Borrower     1 Aptil to 31 March
"Ne of Currency             Rupee (Rs)
Currency  achange Ate.: Apprsal Year U#81 a R  8.60
Intervening Yeare  Avera: r1s78    U88  * Ba  8.20
179    US$1 a le 8.10
115     U#18 a *   7.90
1u81    uS$ a Re 8.95
R82    US$l a bt  9.65
1183    US$1 * Rs 10.30
1T84    US$l a R  11.90
M85    US$1 a Re 12.20
Fn86    u$sl a R  12.40
/s  Credit was kept open inforally for an extra sin months.
lb  tato on banatits not avalabl, to aliei  for eciwaic re-valuation.
Ic A - Aq4aculture. B- g oenica, C - lineciel Analysi. 0 - Forto Civil hgimne:ia. I - Crtit.
V - Fisheries, C - Oval Architecture
Id  I - ProblUt-tree or linor Problms. 2 - Nbderat Froblema. 3 - Major trobUcas
7; I   Improving4  2 - Statioeary; 3 - Deterioratin4
/It    - iaoncils N - Mftaeerialz T - TcOhnical; P - Political: 0 - other



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT (CREDIT 815-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The project was  one  of  the  first  IDA  assisted fishery projects in
India. It was the second in a series of projects that were to assist GOI's
plans to modernize and develop fishery infrastructure to alleviate bottlenecks
created by over-crowded fishing harbors; it was the first uajor fishery de.velop-
ment on the east coast of India.    The project was to make a major contribution
to India's marine fishing industry by facilitating exploitation of rich fishery
resources, particularly shrimp, off the Andhra Pradesh coast. In addition, the
project was to provide a  stepping  stone  in  India's development of a deep-sea
fishing fleet, and was to  make  a major beginning in helping small subsistence
fishermen living in isolated fishing villages.
objectives
2.       The project's main objective was  to increase marine fishery production
on Andhra Pradesh's coastline by upgrading three harbors, providing credit for
acquiring fishing boats and vessels, establishing fish processing facilities,
nd increasing the productivity of small fishermen by constructing access roads
to fishing villages. The major features of the project weret (i) improve,;sMt
of three harbors: Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam; (ii) construction of
a coastal fishing village access road in Visakhapatnam, East Grodavari, and
Guntur Districts where the projects are located; (iii) credit for purchase of
360 MFV and 60 non-MFVs; (iv) credit for seafood processing facilities at two
harbors; and (v) technical assistance, providing harbor engineering and archi-
tecture consultants, a program of overseas study tours, and construction of two
experimental 23 m wood hull shrimp trawlers. Total project costs were estimated
at US$36.5 million. The IDA credit was for US$17.5 million. The balance of
financing was to be provided by GOI/GOAP, ARDC, participating banks, and
borrowers.
Implementation Experience
3.       The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries project  was subject to even more problems
of implementation than that of the Gujarat Fisheries Project (Loan 1394-
INlCredit 695-IN), appraised a year earlier.   As in Gujarat, the delays in com-
pletion of harbors were due to design problems. The Visakhapatnam harbor was
completed by 1982 (as expected), but significant delays were experienced at the
Kakinada and Nizampatnam harbors. These were due to change in design, contrac-
tual delays, underestimation of breakwater costs, financial liquidity problems
of contractors, a High Court case, and difficult soil conditions. In addition



- vi -
the construction of access roads was delayed because of disputes over land
acquisition. Delays were also experienced in recruiting suitable consultants
for implementing the technical assistance component of the project. Less than
half of the envisaged numbers of vessels and boats were built and poor perform
perfor-mance in meeting SAR targets for credit for purchase of vessels and boats
was due to the reluctance of the participating banks to promote a credit program
which had led to poor recoveries with past loans. Despite frequent interven-
tions by GOI and GOAP, the banks stuck to their position that unless earlier
loans are repaid, they 9ould not increase credit to fishermen. GOI commented
that the banks did not have a proper collection machinery at field level to
motivate fishermen to repay their  loans.   Moreover, GOAP was already providing
non-mechanized craft on highly  subsidized  terms.    In addition, due to delays
with harbor works, financing of the processing facilities was initially delayed
and finally dropped. Actual disbursement against the credit of US$17.5 M was
US$9.98 M, covering 39% of total project costs. The final disbursement was made
in June 1985, and the balance of US$7.52 million was cancelled. Over 40% of the
amount disbursed relates to credit components (fishing vessels and fish process-
ing plants).
Results
4.       Since the benefits to be derived from the project were based on comple-
tion of the harbors, revised estimates of the ERR cannot be attempted at this
time due to lack of specific information and non-completion of two harbors at
the time of PCR preparation.   Tne  principal benefits that will accrue when the
harbors are eventually completed will include the improvement in the quality of
fish landed by the existing fleet due to better landing facilities, and
increased fish and shrimp production.   Nevertholess, there are positive indica-
tions that the project has already had a positive impact on fishery development
in the eastern waters of India. There is evidence of increased fishing days per
vessel and a sizable increase in the fishing fleet, it having doubled from 522
to 1,096 mechanized fishing vessels (MFV) over the project period. A sample
survey indicates that income from trawlers increased by 30% and from MFV by
100%. The harbor completion at Visakhapatnam and anticipated completion of
harbors at Kakinada and Nizampatnam has stimulated development of private sector
processing facilities.    The  coastal  road  component  provided  access  to 98
villages and 91,000 people, exceeding appraisal estimates by 20%.
Sustainability
5.       The ability of the project  to  sustain its principal benefits is like-
wise contingent on completion of the harbors, so that sustainability is still
uncertain at this time.
Findings and Lessons
6.       The principa. lesson which  can  be  learned  from  the project is that
investigatlon and design work of harbors should have been completed prior to



- vii -
appraisal. This would allow for a better appreciation of complex problems,
e.g., sandy soils, which can emerge during implementation. Other lessons from
the project are:
(a) It is necessary to investigate the field capabilities for proper loan
collection and to include specific provisions for credit recovery,
particularly for sectors where prior experience in loan recovery was
poor. GOI cited that better loan recovery has been demonstrated where
loans have been routed through the State Fisheries Directorate.
(b) In the case of activities where technical assistance is to be provided
over a prolonged period, it would be more satisfactory to require resi-
dent consultants, as considerable delays can occur if advice has to be
sought through correspondence from a non-resident consultant.



INDIA
ANDHKA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In response to the priority placed by the Government of India (GOI)
on the development of marine fisheries, the World Bank appraised the Cujarat
Fisheries Project in May/June 1976 and the Credit/Loan became effective in
July 1977. This was the first World Bank financed marine fisheries project
in India. During the preparation of that project it was recognized that the
rapid expansion of the mechanized fishing fleet in India had not been accom-
panied by a corresponding development of essential infrastructural
facilities. Fishery harbours as well as repair and other port facilities
were basically inadequate for even the existing fleet.
1.02    While the project in Gujarat addressed some of these needs on the
west coast of India, the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project, the subject of
this completion report, was aimed at developing fishing harbour and other
basic facilities on the east coast. While the west coast (Kerala,
Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka) as a whole accounted for around 70% of
India's total marine catch, production in Andhra Pradesh (AP) represented
approximately 10% of the all-India total; high value prawns accounted for
about 10% of their catch.
1.03    The project provided for the improvement/development of three fishing
harbours (Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam), as well as credit for
acquiring fishing vessels, both mechanized and non-mechanized, and for set-
ting up fish processing facilities. In addition, the construction of 215 km
of coastal village access roads in the three project districts was provided
for. Finally, in addition to technical assistance and a small overseas study
tour component, provision was made for the construction of two experimental
wooden hull trawlers. With the exception of works proposed for the Visak-
hapatnam harbour (which was to be executed by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust
(VPT), a GOI agency, and the credit components (to be financed through
various participating banks), the implementation responsibility for all other
components was with the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP); the state's
Department of Fisheries was the lead agency, and the Commissioner of
Fisheries was designated as Project Coordinator.
1.04    A Project Completion Report was prepared in 1985 by the office of the
Project Coordinator. That report, along with additional information provided
by his office as well as by other implementing agenciesp provide the basis
for *his PCR. In addition, this report is based on a review of the Staff



-2-
Appraisal Report (SAR No. 1896a-IN); the Development Credit Agreement dated
June 19, 1978; World Bank supervision reports and project files; a field
visit to the three harbour sites; discussions with project related staff at
both Hyderabad and in the project districts; and interviews with key offi-
cials of GOI, COAP, and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Develop-
ment (NABARD), formerly Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC), as well as members of the appraisal mission, supervising staff, and
consultants
II* PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin/Reconnaissance
2.01    With the rapid growth in marine fishery activites in the late six-
ties and early seventies, and a general awareness that considerable marine
resources were available for exploitation, GOI was conscious of the need for
further investment to promote this sub-sLctor. The project's origin lies it
the considerable sector work which was carried out to identify and prepare
the Gujarat fisheries project.
2.02    Broad fisheries development programs for AP, Gujarat, Karnataka,
Keralap Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu had been identified by state governments,
and these were reviewed by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) recon-
naissance mission which visited India in November/December 1974. Based on
various factors, including the respective stages of project preparation, the
CP mission recommended the inclusion of AP, Cujarats Maharashtra and Tamil
Nadu in a first phase project.
Identification/Preparation
2.03    As a follow up to the above, a CP Identification/Preparation mission
visited India in July/August 1975. After discussions with GOI, agreement
was reached on the inclusion of AP, Gujarat and Kerala in a first phase
project. The primary objective of the project was to improve fish quality
and reduce waste, by providing suitable facilities for handling the landed
fish catch. For AP, the project components included improving/developing
fishing harbour facilities at Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam,
providing shore facilities and services, ice plants, fish freezing and
storage plants, and credit for 8 medium sized 17m MFVs, 124 lOm MsVs and 60
9m MFVs. In addition, it was intended that the project would assist in the
improvement of existing vessels through the installation oL ice boxes, or
the improvement of fish hold insulation.
2.04    While the CP mission had carried out a more detailed identification
of project components, preparation was still incomplete. Further preparation
work on the AP project was done by the "Pre-Investment Survey of Fishing



-3-
Harbours" Project 1/ in Bangalore, and the AP State Ports Department (siD),
specifically on the harbour components. GOI submitted the final proposals to
the Bank in May 1977. These excluded the originally identified proposals for
improving the Kakinada harbour, as improvement works had already begun on the
existing harbour, and it was through that their inclusion in the project
would have may led to delays. While GOI was keen that the Kerala project
also be appraised at the same time, AP was accorded a higher priority.
AUjraial
2.05    Based on the above, a World Bank appraisal mission visited India in
September/October 1977, during which the scale of the project was con-
siderably enlarged. The ongoing improvement works at Kakinada were found to
be inadequate for the existing fleet, and offered little scope for expansion.
Preliminary studies carried out by SPD for alternative harbour development
plans, were found adequate to establish the general engineering feasibility
to develop new fishing harbour facilities. Consequently, Kakinada harbour
development was included as a component under the project. In addition, an
access roads component for coastal villages, aimed at supporting traditional
fishermen, was also included, and the scale of the MFV component was
increased. Finally, a credit component for 30 23m shrimp trawlers was also
included, which however, was dropped during negotiations at GOI request.
Project Description
2.06    As appraised, the project included the following components:
(a)  Development of fishing harbours through the expansion of the harbour
at Visakhapatnam; relocation and expansion of harbour capacity at
Kakinada; and construction of new harbour facilities at Nizampatnam.
(b)  Construction of a water supply system for both Nizampatnam village,
and the proposed harbour.
(c)  Improvement of 58 km and construction of 157 km of coastal village
access roads.
(d)  Credit for 300 lOm MFVs, 60 9m MFVs, and 60 12m non-mechanized sail-
ing craft.
(e)  Credit for fish processing plants of Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam.
1/ The project, under GOI, had been set up with UNDP assistance between
1968-72, and was later supported by SIDA between 1974-76.



-4-
(f) Technical assistance, which provided for a specialist in estuarial
river training works and a naval architect as consultants; a program
of overseas study tour for 10 people involved in project management;
and the construction of two experimental 23m wooden hull shrimp
trawlers.
Over a five year period (1978-83), the project was estimated to cost US$36.5
million (Rs 313.6 million).
2.07    With the exception of the Visakhar4tnam harbour works, for which the
VPT of GOI was responsible, the project was to be carried out by GOAP agen-
cies. Refinance for credit operations, based on a previously prepared bank-
ing plans, was to be provided by NABARD. A Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC), established at state level, had the responsibility for organizing the
execution of the project by delegating responsibilities to appropriate state
agencies. The Department of Fisheries was the lead agency. The principal
implementing agency was SPD, which was to plan and administer the construc-
tion of harbour works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam; the Panchayati Raj Depart-
ment responsible for overseeing construction of the village access roads and
the water supply scheme; and the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation (APFC),
which was (i) to build most of the 9m and 10m MFVs, and the experimental
wooden hull trawlers, (ii) own and operate new seafood processing plants; and
(iii) assist in identifying borrowers for MFVs and arrange for contributions
of those who would need assistance under the credit scheme. Based on
benefits projected at appraisal, an economic rate of return of 35% was
estimated for the project as a whole.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Negotiations and Effectiveness
3.01    The negotiations between GOI and IDA took place between April 12-24,
1978. The Bank's Board of Directors approved the proposed IDA Credit of
US$17.5 million on May 30, 1978, and it was signed on June 19, 1978. The
credit, which was to have become effective in September, became effective on
October 31, 1978. This was on account of a delay in finalizing the Banking
Plan for the credit component.
Project Changes After Appraisal
3.02    The principal change made to the project after appraisal was the
deletion of the component for setting up seafood processing plants at Visak-
hapatnam and Nizampatnam (none were proposed for Kakinada at appraisal), in
view of adequate capacity already existing. At Visakhapatnam, private sector
freezing capacity more than doubled during the period 1975-81, and additional
capacity was still being installed. It was estimated that on account of
this, substantial overcapacity would prevail. Furthermore, APFC's own
processing units at the port showed continuous low capacity utilization.



-5-
With regard to Nizampatnam, APFC requested GOAP to limit investment to one
seafood processing plant (instead of two as proposed), and a small chilled
storage, in view of APFC's alreaJy poor financial situation, and the techni-
cal feasibility of transporting fresh shrimp from Nizampatnam to other exist-
ing APFC plants. However, with delays in completing and commissioning the
harbour, and the continuing financial problems of APFC, no decision has yet
been taken on this.
3.03    With regard to the harbour component, some design changes became
necessary particularly to the Kakinada harbour. These were based on the
surveys and studies which were done oe account of the very difficult soil
conditions. Principal changes were made to the design of the breakwater
cross section, two landing jetties, and the concrete wave wall (see paras
3.10 and 3.12); sand drains were also introduced to stabilize the soil below
the breakwater. In addition, the appraisal proposal for dredging at Kakinada
was deleted, as it was considered unnecessary to remove soft surface mud
because its density was not considered sufficient to prevent navigation of
vessels. Finally, implementation responsibility for the roads component was
transferred from the Panchayati Raj Department to the Roads and Buildings
Department of PWD.
Implementation Schedule
3.04    Implementation of all project components was expected to be completed
by the end of 1983. Improvements proposed for the Visakhapatnam harbour were
completed by 1982 (as expected), but significant delays were experienced in
the completion of all other components, and particularly the Kakinada and
Nizampatnam harbours (see charts 1 and 2 respectively). While Nizampatnam
has now been largely completed (SAR estimated completion in mid-1982), cur-
rent estimates indicate that the construction of Kakinada harbour will be
completed during the first half of 1987 (QAR estimate was end 1981). Con-
struction works at Kakinada have had to cope with very difficult soil condi-
tions, and have been subject to an arbitration between the contractor and
GOAP, and subsequent legal dispute which is still going on.
3.05    Delays in completing the coastal access roads component were
experienced on account of land acquisition disputes. Most of the program
(though on a reduced scale as compared to appraisal) has now been completed,
and the completion of outstanding work depends on the successful resolution
of these disputes. Delays were also experienced in recruiting suitable
consultants for implementing the technical assistance component of the
project.
Implementation of the Harbor Component
3.06    Visakhapatnam Harbor.  The proposals for the improvement of the
harbour were aimed at expanding the existing harbour, and included additional
quay length and four berthing jetties totalling 1,115 m; expanded slipway



-6-
facilities with repair jetty and a crawler crane; building including auction
hall expansion, fishermen's gear sheds and toilet block; construction of
roads, drains and culverts; additional water distribution system; land
acquisition; and dredging of slipway at the repair berth.
3.07    The civil works component of the Visakhapatnam harbour has been
performed without any major problem. Some changes were made in design of the
proposed works. The changes resulted in an increase in berthing length from
1,115m to 1,270m. The construction of ways and jetties commences in mid-1980
and the harbour was officially opened mid-February 1982. Presently work is
ongoing on completing additional navigational facilities and construction of
a rock bund for land reclamation, neither of which had been provided for at
the time of appraisal, but were added in 1984.
3.08    Kakinada Harbor.  The project investments were designed to relocate
the fishing harbour at a new site. The existing fishing harbour is located
on the commercial canal in the centre of Kakinada City and is about 6 km from
the sea. The number of MFV operating regularly from this harbour was
estimated at appraisal to be about 300, while the facilities available were
considered to be adequate for only 75 MFVs. This inevitably led to heavy
congestion of fishing port facilities and extreme hazards in the commercial
canal. Considering these facts, it was necessary to establish a new harbour.
A site located about 8 km from the existing harbour was selected at appraisal
for which basic engineering data were available. The construction proposals
under the project included a 880m long breakwater, with a 200m right angle
spur at the end; two landing jetties with auction halls for the smaller MFVs
and the 23m shrimp trawlers, each 150m long; two MFV berthing jetties each
185m long and a 150m outfitting jetty for MFV; dredging of harbour besin and
approach channel to 4.Om minimum water depth for the trawler facilities; boat
repair facility; buildings including administration building, toilet block
and canteen; roads and drainage; ant services including power and light,
water and fuel points.
3.09    The construction works at Kakinada were awarded to two contractors,
one for constructing the breakwater and one for the landing structures. The
contracts were awarded in October 1980 and December 1980 respectively. Both
contractors are still at the site for completion of the works. The break-
water is estimated to be completed by mid-1987 and the 'anding structures by
end of September 1986.
3.10    The construction works at Kakinada have encountered serious problems.
The prevailing soil conditions at the site have been the main factor causing
delay and difficulties in the project. The seabed is composed of silt and
silty clay down to approximately 8m below the seabed level. Initially the
breakwater design was based on four borings carried out in 1976. The Central
Water and Power Research Station, Pune (CWPRS) checked the breakwater design
against slip failure, based on information from these borings (1977). Some
time later the cross-section was apparently changed, but now new stability



-7-
evaluation was made. As allowed for at appraisal, additional investigations
were performed prior to award of the construction contracto During 1978-79,
25 new borings were undertaken in the jetty and breakwater area. Approval of
the award of the contract for harbour construction was postponed until CWPRS
had analyzed the total set of 29 borings. The analysis resulted in revision
of the breakwater design and the lowest tenderer agreed to carry out the work
as per revised sections abiding the terms and conditions of the tender. It
was also recommended by CWPRS that the soil below the breakwater be stabi-
lized by sand drains. This item was not contemplated at the time of
appraisal. Being a supplemental item, closely related to the main works, its
execution was entrusted to the contractor for the breakwater under a lump sum
contract. Finally, in order to reduce the splashing action of waves and to
achieve additional safety to the wave wall, additional armoring on the sea
side of the breakwater was proposed by CWPRS in 1       which further increased
the quantity of work. Table 5 gives an indication of the volume of works so
far carried out.
3.11    The construction of the breakwater has faced major problems due to
excessive settlement of the foundation causing increased rock usage. This
resulted in severe financial liquidity problems for the contractor, and
caused delavs in completing other components which were contingent on comple-
tion of the breakwater. Although the contractor had accepted the risk,
knowing the very weak nature of soil conditions, his financial position
forced him to release his work force. A substantial increase in the price of
fuel and tyres had further increased his cost, as stones are transported by
truck from a quarry some 40 km from the site, and the agreed escalation
formula did not provide for the actual increase of prices for essential
commodities. The contractor filed for arbitration in October 1982, and the
award in his favor was given in February 1983.  The award was contested by
GOAP in the local sub-court which set aside the award in August 1985s the
contractor filed an appear in the X gh Court in November 1985, which is
presently ongoing.  In the meanwhile a proposal for completion of the remain-
ing work paid at current unit rates, less 0.51, has been submitted to the
Government.  Once a decision is taken, the outstanding work is expected to
take about a year to complete. Successful complet.ion within this schedule
also depends on the contractor setting an extension of the contract to use
his present quarry for recovering armour blocks. Other major works remaining
at the breakwater are related to concrete works, i.e. wave wall and top slab,
which can now be carried out, as the rate of settlement of the foundation has
become insignificant. Based on the present estimates for total cost, around
70X of the work has been completed (March 1986).
3.12    Construction of the landing quays, berthing jetties and auction hall
has, as mentioned, been carried out as a separate contract. The issue of
tender documents was delayed as certain aspects of the design presented
technical problems, causing concern for the stability of the structures.
Consequently, the design was revised. The works, which abut the breakwater,



-8-
have been further hampered by the slow progress of the breakwater construc-
tion, and damage to the contractors floating craft by a cyclone resulting in
stoppage of work. It was initially estimated that 40 x 40 cm piles of 18.5m
length should be used for the quays, and 35 x 35 cm piles of 17.5m length for
the jetties. The contract inc:ludes a clause stating that length and sizes of
piles shall be decided after performance of test load and driven test piles.
After the test load it was decided to use 40 x 40 cm piles of 19.8m length
for both quays and jetties. This increased the concrete and steel quantity,
as well as the driving length of piles. A contractual dispute is presently
ongoing regarding several claims by the contractor, including a claim for a
prolonged escalation period. The present contract expired in March 1986 and
a request from the contractor for time extension up to September 1986 is
under consideration. Remaining works are related mainly to the auction halls
and finishing work at the quays and jetties, and represent around 15% of the
total works.
3.13    In addition to the above works, a sloping surface has been con-
structed to be used for pulling up MFV for repair. An area of approximately
3,000 m2 has been levelled for these works and a small workshop has been
constructed. The facilities are nearly complete. A port operation building
of 184 m2 has been completed, as well as a boundary wall around the area
where it is located. In addition, an approach road to the port operation
building and to the weighbridge has been completed.
3.14    Finally, a 5 km power line with street lighting has been completed.
Three navigation lights will soon be fixed on trestles and arrangements for
illuminating the breakwater and berthing structures are in progress. The
permanent fresh water supply to the harbour will be provided by the Kakinada
Municipality. It has been agreed that up to 450 tons of water per day shall
be provided as required.
3.15    Nizampatnam Harbour.  The project provided for a harbour basin 215 m
long and 30 m wide dredged to approximately 2m water depth; revetments; a
landing, outfitting and berthing quay 190 m long; a boat ramp; and auction
hall; 1.2 ha of harbour working area; an administration building ard toilet
block; a harbour approach road of 3 km length; fuel and marine facilities
including a work boat and lighthouse, transit lights, and a maintenance
workshop with equipment; drainage; and services including water supply,
electricity, and lighting.
3.16    The construction of facilities included in the project have been
carried out without any major difficulties, although much behind the
estimated time schedule. The works commenced in early 1979 with the con-
struction of a 3 km approach road which was the basis for construction of
all new harbour facilities, as no road connection to the harbour site
existed. The various parts of the harbour improvement works have been car-
ried out through a number of small contracts, and the present situation is



-9-
that some dredgings surfacing and revetment works are estimated to be com-
pleted by mid-1986. The physical parameters of the works carried out are
shown in Table 5.
3.17    Training Walls.  The need to improve the entrance for the Nizampatnam
harbour had already been discussed at the time of the pre-investment study of
the harbour. The present depth at the mouth of the river (which leads to the
harbour) is sufficient for general use by non-MFVs; however, it can only be
used by MFVs during high tide. The introduction of training walls at the
entrance is expected to ensure better depths. The issue was considered at
appraisal, but construction of training walls was not included in the project
as log-piled training walls were then under construction (these, however
failed, and the construction was dropped). The project provided for the
recruitment of a river training specialist to advise on this matter. In his
report of September 1983, the consultant recommended the construction of two
300 m training walls. These have been sanctioned by GOAP and construction
work is about to conmence. Time for completion is estimated to be one year.
With the construction of these walls, it is expected that lcw water depths
will be ensured, although the depth of 1.0 m is less than the 1.3 m
originally anticipated. This would, however, allow extended access time. A
dredging commitment has also been identified.
Implementation of Other Project Components
3.18    Nizampatnam Water Supply Scheme.  A water supply system for
Nizampatnam village and harbour was included under the project. The scheme
was revised to include additional pumping and storage capacity, and has just
been completed. Under the revised scheme, water is also being supplied to
two additional locations, Gokarnattam village and a nearby ex-servicemen's
housing colony. The system, as constructed, provides for raw water to be
collected at an irrigation channel approximately 4 km from the harbour. The
water is pumped to a sedimentation tank and the clear water is collected in a
sump from where it is pumped to two elevated tanks (60,000 liter capacity
each), one at the harbour and one at Nizampatnam village. Water is dis-
tributed for consumption from the elevated tanks.
3.19    Coastal Village Access Roads.  The project provided for the improve-
ment and construction of about 215 km of access roads. The roads are located
in three districts and are serving about 100 coastal fishing villages and
landing centers. At appraisal only preliminary estimates were available for
the alignments of the various roads and their costs. Detailed engineering
of the roads was completed later, resulting in shorter road lengths without
impairing the program. However, considerable revetment works had to be
included for the coastal sand roads. Five major bridges were included in the
initial village road component, of which one in Visakhapatnam district is
still under construction. In addition to these bridges, another two are
under construction in Guntur district, which would link the project's village



-10-
roads more directly with Nizampatnam harbour. The appraisal targets, and the
actual program implemented is shown in the table below:
Appraisal Target                 Actual
District             New        Improve          New         Improve
..  .....  b@O ...... ... km. @0*.e
Visakhapatnam           67           31            42.6          4.9
East Godavari           49          20             61.4           -
Guntur                  41            7            21.5         20.9
Total    157           58           125.5         25.8
3.20    In all three districts most of the road works have been completed.  A
total of about 6.7 km remairs to be completed when land acquisition problems
have been resolved. In addition, major revetment works have also been neces-
sary, which are scheduled to be completed by mid-1986, in Visakhapatnam and
East Godavari, and which still have to be started in Guntur.
3.21    Mechanized Fishing Vessels.  As opposed to the appraisal target of
300 10m MFVs, 60 9m MFVs, and 60 12m non-mechanized craft, a total of only
137 10m MFVs were financed under the project. Of these, 36 MFVs were
financed through the Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Bank (APSCB), where
borrowers were required to contribute 5Z of cost, GOAP loan to cover 151 of
cost, and APSCB loan, the balance. The remaining 101 MFVs were financed by
the other participating banks, where the bank loan was to cover 85Z of the
cost with 15% being the borrower's contribution. In fact, loans from banks
covered less than the originally anticipated share of total cost.
3.22    The poor performance in meeting project targets for MFVs was on
account of the reluctance of the participating banks to promote a credit
program for MFVs in view of their experience with poor recoveries of past
loans.  Data provided by NABMRD indicate that the percentage of overdues in
total balance outstanding against loans granted, as at end of December 1985,
ranged between 75X to 100X for the different .participating banks. The
problems have not been resolved, in spite of numerous meetings between
NABARD, the participating banks, and GOAP. A comparison of the program as
actually implemented by the different banks, and the proposals in the banking
plan is shown in Table 7. Regarding non-mechanized craft, GOAP was providing
these to fishermen at highly subsidized terms under various cyclonw relief
programs. Consequently, there was no demand for the vessels provided for
under the project.
3.23    Study Tour.  As proposed under the project, 10 officers (four from
the Department of Fisheries, and six from APFC) undertook a 30 day tour to 6
south-east Asian countries, in July/August 1980. They reviewed boat building
activities, as well as practices related to fish marketing and processing.



-11-
3.24    Experimental Wooden Hull Trawlers (23m).  The objective of this
component was to develop cheaper indigenous shrimp trawlers, as compared to
the imported steel hull vessels. Significant delays were experienced in the
implementation of this component. Recruitment of the consultant naval
architect was delayed, and keels for the two trawlers were eventually laid in
June 1984. At present, both hulls and the engine beds have been largely
completed, and the engines, fishing gear, and other equipment are at various
stages of ordering anl delivery. It is expected that the vessels can be
launched by the end of 1986, and that test runs, after complete fitting of
all equipment, can be made during the first half of 1987.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
3.25    Appointment of the river training specialist was delayed until late
1980. By January 1982 it was found that not much progress had been made, and
a time schedule was agreed for the study to be completed by September 1983.
The report, dated September 27, 1983 gives recommendations regarding stabi-
lization of the entrance by constructing training walls, and also an estimate
of maintenance dredging. The proposals are based on investigations carried
out by the consultant, as well as results of model tests done by CWPRS.
3.26    Appointment of the naval architect for the development of indigenous
shrimp trawlers was also considerably delayed. His first visit to the
Kakinada Boat Building Yard (KBBY) was made in January/February 1982, i.e.
more than two years behind schedule. He has so far made three visits to
KBBY, for a total period of around one montht and provided the basic plans
for trawler construction. Much further delay has been caused by the time it
took to clear or explain designs through correspondence between KBBY and the
non-resident consultant.
3.27    The contractor for the construction works at Visakhapatnam (one of
the largest contractors in India) fulfilled his work within the agreed time.
Only minor technical problems occurred during thi construction period. The
construction contract for the breakwater at Kakinada was awarded to a con-
tractor based in Vijayawada who had little prior experience in marine works.
The WB expressed concern over this, but concurred with the tender committee's
recommendation after investigation of the contractor's capability. While the
quality of work so far carried out is satisfactory, its completion has been
significantly delayed. However, as described earlier in this report, the
contractor faced severe problems resulting in slow progress and financial
disputes. The second construction contract for the Kakinada harbour, landing
structures, was awarded to a company based in Calcutta, having the lowest
tender. The construction work has been progressing, though hampered by
adverse weather conditions and the slow progress of the breakwater construc-
tion. Contractual disoutes on various issues, including extended time of
escalation period, are still pending. The contractor has requested extension
of time for completion of the works. For construction works at Nizampatnam



-12-
several small contracts have been awarded and no major problems have
occurred.
Project Cost
3.28    Table 1 shows a comparison between actual costs and estimates made at
appraisal for the different project components. On completion, the project
is estimated to cost Rs 251.4 million (US$25.7 million), which is 80% of the
SAR estimate of Rs 323.6 million (US$36.5 million). Excluding the estimated
cost for the seafood processing facilities component, which was not imple-
mented, total actual cost in Rupee terms represents 83% of appraisal
estimates. However, the present estimate of actual cost excludes any addi-
tional costs which may arise out of the ongoing case in the High Court
regarding the Kakinada harbour. The total cost for that harbour can only be
finalized once the case is resolved. At present, Rs 84.4 million is included
in the above estimates of actual cost (SAR estimate was Rs 76.7 million), for
the Kakinada harbour. Detailed costs of the three harbours, compared to the
appraisal estimates, are shown in Tables 2, 3 and 4 respectively. In addi-
tion, at the time of preparing this PCR, detailed actual costs of MFVs
against which participating banks disbursed their credit were not available
at the NABARD Regional Office (Hyderabad). Consequently, the cost of the MFV
component has been estimated on the basis of an average cost of Rs 203,000
per MFV. 1/
3.29    There has been a considerable underachievement of the physical tar-
gets set for the fishing vessels component (33% of appraisal expectations),
with correspondingly lower actual costs. For the other two main components
(harbours and roads), total actual costs are in line with appraisal estimates
(99% and 100%, of SAR estimates respectively). However, there were cost
overruns in implementing the Kakinada and Nizampatnam harbours, (10% and 17%
respectively), principally on account of the larger volume of work carried
3ut as compared to what was expected at appraisal. In the case of the roads
component, actual average unit cost for road construction are higher than
that estimated at appraisal (only 77% of appraisal target actually completed,
in terms of length). This is on account of improved standards and inclusion
of major revetments. Also, improvements to existing roads represent only 17%
of the roads program actually implemented (as compared to 27% estimated at
appraisal).
Project Financing and Credit Allocation
3.30    The IDA credit of US$17.5 million was exeected to finance 48% of
total project cost. Actual disbu.5ement against the credit was US$9.98
1/ This is based on the average cost of the 36 MFVs supplied by KBBY over
the five year period (1980/81-84/85), under the GOAP margin money scheme.



-13-
million, which covered approximately 39% of actual project cost. The final
disbursement was made in June 1985, and the undisbursed balance of US$7.52
million (43% of the credit) was cancelled. Loan disbursements were far
behind the appraisal schedule, principally on account of delayed implementa-
tion (see basic data sheet).
3.31    Table 6 compares actual disbursements for different expenditure
categories with the proposed allocation at appraisal. Over 40% of the amount
cancelled relates to the credit components (fishing vessels and fish process-
ing plants). For the other components, disbursements have also been low (70%
for civil works, and only 37% for the TA related costs). This was wholly on
account of delayed implementation, and the fact that the closing date of the
project was only informally extended for a six-month period. The allocation
for equipment and materials has been more than fully utilized.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.01    As envisaged at appraisal, project implementation was coordinated by
the office of the Commissioner of Fisheries (who was the Project Coor-
dinator); PCC was set up in June 1978, which was chaired by the Secretary,
Department of Forests and Rural Development. In addition, District Subcom-
mittees were also set up in the three project districts, with the District
Collector as chairman. These were active in identifying prospective
beneficiaries eligible for the GOAP margin money support for the MFV credit
component; they also monitored the progress of the project in the respective
districts, and in particular the coastal village access roads component.
While the PCC and the District Subcommittees made efforts to accelerate
project implementation, delays could have been minimized by anticipating some
of the problems which have occurred. Completion of the Kakinada harbour has
been delayed due to various problems, and commissioning of the Nizampatnam
harbour has also been considerably delayed even though most of the construc-
tion works had been completed by 1984/85 (see Chart 2). At GOI level, the
implementation progress of the project was monitored by the Central Coordina-
tion Committee set up earlier under the WB financed Gujarat Fisheries
Project.
4.02    The Visakhapatnam harbour component was executed in a timely manner
by VPT, while construction work at the Kakinada and Nizampatnam harbours was
supervised by SPD. As provided for at appraisal an Executive Engineer was
recruited (on deputation from VPT) to assist SPD in implementing the works at
the latter two harbours. As reviewed earlier, works at Kakinada have been
beset with various problems, both technical and contractual. With regard to
the former, it appears that the Executive Engineer has done whatever was
possible to effectively supervise the harbour construction works under the
project. Continuous and constructive support has also been obtained from
CWPRS. The contractual dispute regarding the work related to the breakwaters



-14-
is by the Roads and Buildings Department of PWD, and the quality of work
carried out was found to be generally satisfactory.
4.03    Finally, APFC is building the project financed 23m experimental
wooden hull trawlers, and built some of the project financed 10m MFVs at
KBBY; it also channelled the 151 margin money provided by GOAP to small
borrowers identified for special assistance. As reviewed in the section
below, APFC was faced with financial difficulties during the period of
project implementations With very few MFV loans having been disbursed, and
the fish processing plants component cancelled, its role under the project
was considerably reduced. Credit to borrowers eligible for GOAP margin money
was provided by APSCB. The credit scheme as a whele was supervised by
NABARD, and was based on banking plans prepared by them, in collaboration
with the participating banks. As discussed below, the performance of the
credit institutions in implementing the credit component under the project
has not been generally satisfactory. This is largely on account of difficul-
ties they experienced in recovering MFV loans, and their inability to develop
an effective loan recovery mechanism.
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
4.04    APFC was established;in 1974 to encourage commercial fisheries
development in the state, particularly for marine fisheries. Its principal
activities at present include marketing of marine fish, fish processing (at
Visakhapatnam and Kakinada), boat building (at KBBY), deep sea trawler opera-
tions (APPC owns two 23m trawlers), and operating diesel sale outlets. APFC
is headed by a Managing Director, the present Commissioner of Fisheries. Its
registered headquarters are in Kakinada, where under a General Manager, most
of its major business transactions occur, while a General Manager at Visak-
hapatnam oversees company operations and day-to-day procurement and market-
ing.
4.05    Throughout the period of project implementation, APFC has experienced
financial problems, with its combined operations yielding losses every year
(see Table 10). There has been an improvement in 1984/85 (though it still
incurred a net loss of Rs 1.17 million), but losses in the previous three
years averaged Rs 5 million. While APFC's trawler operations have been
profitable, the principal contributors to the large losses have been the KBBY
and the fish processing plants. There has been a considerable increase in
activity at KBBY during 1984/85 and 1985/86; however, present capacity
utilization of the processing plants is estimated at around 35-40%. As can
be seen from the comparative balance sheets shown on Table 9, accumulated
losses had totally eroded the capital base of the Corporation by 1983/84,
with its total net worth becoming negative.
4.06    Among the various factors which have contributed to APFC's poor
performance, an important one has been the lack of continuity in the upper
management (apparently, there have been 23 managing directors during the last



-15-
eight years). However, there has been an improvement in APFC's performance
in 1984/85p with further improvements expected in 1985/86. Furthermore, the
Government is presently reviewing various possibilities for the financial
rehabilitation of APFC.
Credit Scheme for Fishing Vessels
4.07    Financing of vessels by banks under the project credit scheme fell
into two categories: (a) loans for cooperatively or privately owned vessels
with a 5% borrower contribution and a 15X GOAP loan, and (b) loans for
privately owned vessels with a 15% borrower contribution and no COAP loan.
Of the 137 lOm MFVs financed under the project (against a target of 300), 36
fell under the former category and 101 under the latter.
4.08    NABARD formulated a banking plan in 1978 (which included four banks),
and a revised banking plan in 1982 when four more banks were inducted into
the program. APSCB, which financed all the 36 MFVs under the farmer category
above, and the Bank of Baroda (which financed 34 HFVs), together financed
roughly 50% of the MFVs financed under the project.  Two banks (Central Bank
and Syndicate Bank) did not grant any loans under the scheme.  A total of Rs
17.02 million were granted as loans to the beneficiaries, with the average
loan amount being Rs 124,000.  The latter represents just over 60% of the
average cost of the lOm MFV during the implementarion period.  Against the
total loans granted, Rs 13.66 million in refinance was claimed from NABARD.
4.09    Initial delays were experienced in selecting beneficiaries under the
GOAP loan scheme, which was done by the District Subcommittees, and in par-
ticipating banks formalizing loan procedures under the scheme, particularly
with regard to security requirements. However, the principal reason for the
poor achievement of targets set at appraisal for this component has been the
reluctance of participating banks to provide loans for fishing vessels on
account of very poor loan recovery. Data provided by NABARD shows that three
of the participating banks have not recovered any of the amounts due as at
December 31, 1985, while for the other three banks recoveries have been
between 10-22% of total amounts due as of that date (see Table 7).
4.10    Four of the participating banks carried out internal studies to
review the poor loan recovery experience. While two of the banks specifi-
cally identified the problem as being one of willful default, general concern
on the declining profitability of the vessels was also expressed. Shrimp and
fish prices during the period 1980-82 went up by about 50% (see Table 14),
and there was a much more rapid increase in fuel prices (Table 15), and
overall vessel operating costs. However, there was a general consensus that
the vessels were sufficiently profitable to be able to repay the loans. The
absence of any firm institutional marketing arrangements, through which loan
recovery could be affected, was also identified as a problem.



-16-
4.11    Most banks recognized that their existing system of collecting repay-
ments was not particularly suitable for fishery loans. They agree that in
order to be more effective, collection efforts have to be frequent, should be
concentrated "on the beach", and bank personnel should get more closely
acquainted with vessel owners and the intricacies of vessel operations in a
particular area. However, some banks, such as the Bank of Baroda, decided to
withdraw from the sector altogether on account of their unwillingness to
spend money on a special recovery mechanism for a sector in which the Bank
had limited interest. Consequently, bank financing of MFVs came to a virtual
standstill by the end of 1981, even though a large number of applications
were pending with the banks for such loans.
4.12    In spite of numerous discussions between COAP, NABARD and the par-
ticipating banks to review alternative mechanisms to i.prove recovery perfor-
mance, the banks remained reluctant to finance vessels. No efforts were made
by the banks to set up a recovery cell at the fish landing site, which could
be financed jointly, and which would minimize costs to the banks.
Accounting and Reporting
4.13    Separate accounts were maintained for the different major categories
of project expenditure. As envisaged at appraisal, the usual government
control and auditing procedures operated for expenditures incurred by GOI and
COAP. However, in the case of APFC, the statutory audit of its accounts
since 1978/79 has not been carried out.
4.14    Fisheries Terminal Organizations, under the Department of Fisheries,
have been set up at the three harbours (see Table 8 for present staffing).
However, as the Kakinada and Nizampatnam harbours are still not operational,
and the auction halls in Visakhapatnam are not used much, these units have
been carrying out the functions of the Catch Monitoring and Evaluation Units
(CMEU). Much data were collected, largely by way of sample surveys, and
reports submitted, on landings, fish prices, catch value per boat/day, etc.
However, because of the migratory nature of vessel operations, and the manner
in which the surveys are designed, the data generated does not give a total
picture on the annual and seasonal fishing effort by boat type, or the total
number of fishing days for the average boat of a specific class. In addi-
tion, there appear to be some inconsistencies in the data collected (see Para
5.15). In addition to these reports generated by the CMEU, progress reports
were prepared periodically on the overall implementation of the project.
Compliance with Covenants
4.15    In general, the covenants agreed with GOI, have been complied with.
However, on account of the overall delays experienced in project implementa-
tion, it has not been possible to meet the target dates set out in all cases.
In addition, as mentioned earlier, the accounts of APFC have not been audited



-17-
since 1978/79, and consequently, certified audit reports could not be
provided.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Intended Impact
5.01    At appraisal, benefits from the harbour component of the project were
assessed in terms of the incremental production from the project financed
fishing fleet and the seafood processing plants, as well as from the addi-
tional 23m shrimp trawlers which were expected to use the facilities created
for such large vessels at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada. The impact from the
village access roads component was measured in terms of higher fish prices
frnm improved quality of marketed catch and an increase in fish production
(tiacremental production esti  Zed at 1,000 tons) -as a result of better access
to services and markets. Annual incremental fish and shrimp production at
full development was estimated at 26,000 tons from the project financed
vessels. Based on these projected benefits, the economic rate of return
(ERR) for the project as a whole (excluding the technical assistance com-
ponent) was estimated at 35Z; ERRs for the three harbours were estimated at
28% for Visakhapatnam, 45% for Kakinada, and 17% for Nizampatnam.
Assessment of Actual Project Impact
5.02    Fishing Harbors.  A considerable downward revision has taken place
in the actual implementation of the direct production components proposed at
appraisal. The component for establishing seafood processing facilities was
not implemented, and the number of fishing vessels financed (137) represents
only 33% of the number originally proposed (420). As appraised, these two
components represented approximately 30% of the estimated total project cost;
as implemented, they represent around 11% of actual total project cost.
Furthermore, while the harbour works at Visakhapatnam were completed in 1982,
works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam (both of which are new harbours) have not
yet been completed. The Nizampatnam harbour can be commissioned fairly soon,
but the Kakinada harbour is likely to be completed only by mid-1987, subject
to satisfactory resolution of ongoing disputes. In view of this, it is not
possible to make a definite assessment of project impact for the two har-
bours. However, one factor which can be observed at these three harbours is
the growth in the number of fishing vessels which has taken place over the
past few years (see Tables 12 and 13). While to some extent this may have
taken place as a result of the investment in the fishing harbours, the mag-
nitude is difficult to quantify. As discussed in the following paragraphs,
the number of fishing vessels presently operating from the three project
locations will ensure adequate utilization of the harbour capacity created.
5.03    At the time of appraisal there was a fleet of 22 23m shrimp trawlers
and 200 lOm MFVs using the Visakhapatnam harbour.  At completion of project
works, it was estimated that the harbour would be able to serve 56 trawlers



-18-
and 300 MFVs. As can be seen from Table 12, there are at present 86 trawlers
and an estimated 320 MFVs using the harbour, with the facilities created
already being overutilized.  Howevek, there are 410 regIstered MFVs at the
port, with a number of boats having migrated to other ports and some having
been scrapped.
5.04    At Kakinada, a totally new harbour is being constructed, with comple-
tion expected in mid-1987. At the time of appraisal 300 MFVs were using the
old harbour, located in the middle of the city, which had facilities designed
for handling only 75 MFVs (SAR para 3.04). Data on the number of MFVs that
have been using the port over the past eight years are not complete. 1/
However, data are available on the number of vessels registered annually at
Kakinada port.  Between 1964-78, a total of 690 new MPVs, (187 9m, 416 10m
and 87 llm) were registered at Kakinada. During the period 1979-85, the
number of registered vessels has significantly increased, with a total of 547
MFVs (41 9m, 413 10m and 93 llm 4FVs having been registered (see Table 13).
Thus, as compared to an average of 46 registered vessels per year during the
first 15 year period, registrations during the latter period average 78
vessels per year.
5.05    The present harbour facilities are extremely overcrowded, and fish is
landed under very poor conditions. Consequently, and also on account of
declining catch rates, many boats have migrated away from Kakinada. However,
given the historic growth in the fishing fleet, and the very good facilities
which are being constructed, the future utilization of harbour at Kakinada
should not prove to be a problem; the new harbour is designed to handle 410
lOm MFVs and 15 23m shrimp trawlers. Furthermore, given that the harbour at
Visakhapatnam is already overutilized, it can be expected that some of these
vessels will begin to use the Kakinada harbour, once it is commissioned. In
addition, a private boat building yard in Kakinada is presently constructing
30 23m trawlers (with orders for more), which can be expected to go into
operation in the next two years.
5.06    Finally, the boats plying from Nizampatnam are only partly using the
facilities which have been created because the harbour has not yet been
officially commissioned. At present, they continue to beach on the river up
to 2 km upstream of the harbour. At the time of appraisal there were 115
sailing vessels and about 25 9m MFVs operating out of Nisampatnam.  The
latter could only enter the mouth of the river at high tide. Facilities
provided under the project were estimated to be adequate to serve an addi-
tional 60 MFVs and 60 non-MFVs. Since harbour construction started, there
1/ Data collected shows average number of vessels operating out of the
harbour on a daily basis. Given the seasonal migration which takes
place, it is not possible to estimate total number of vessels which use
the harbour on a seasonal or annual basis.



-19-
has been a rapid increase in the number of MFVs, from 143 in 1981 to an
estimated 205 in 1986. In additions around 150 non-mechanized craft are now
operating out of Nizampatnam. Thus, once the harbour is commissioned, it is
assured of being fully utilized.
5.07    While much historical data has been collected on the number of fish-
ing vessels operating out of the three harbours and on fish landings, such
data does not provide a true picture of overall fishing activities in the
project area. This is on account of the fact that fishing has assumed a
migratory nature with vessels extending their fishing areas up to Orissa and
West Bengal waters. Consequently, not all the catch is landed in the har-
bours. In addition, with the auction hall in Visakhapatnam not being used
much, and the existing poor facilities at Kakinada and Nizampatnam, it is
extremely difficult to accurately measure the fish landed at the ports.
Finally, the survey methods adopted have not always been consistent to ensure
uniformity in the data generated (see para 5.15).
5.08    Data on annual catch for the different categories of vessels are not
available. 1/ Discussions with local officials as well as with fishermen
reveal that catch rates for fish are lower than what was estimated at
appraisal, particularly around Visakhapatnam and Kakinada. However, catches
of prawns and shrimp are still high. Consequently, fishermen are making
either longer trips towards Orissa and West Bengal, or migrating for either
part of the whole season. 2/ Furthermore, the larger 23m trawlers are
increasingly concentrating their activities on catching shrimp, as they find
that the fish catch which they bring in does not generate much revenue (see
Table 16).
5.09    Based on discussions with local fishermen, the table below sets out
the present estimates of average catch rates of vessels operating out of the
three project harbours:
1/ Data has been collected on fish landings, but this does not provide
enough information to assess catch rates for the different categories of
boats (see para 5.7).
2/ For example fishermen in Visakhapatnam reported that they are often
making six to seven day 'rips to the Orissa coast between the months of
October and February.



-20-
Fish        Shrmp          Total Average
-------------tons) -------
MFVs
Visakhapat.am              40             8                48
Kakinada                   30            10                40
Nizampatnam                50            10                60
(Appraisal Estimate)      (47)           (6)              (53)
23m Trawlers
(Appraisal Estimate)    (120)          (100)            (220)
For the purpose of anaysis, an average annual catch of 48 tons has been
assumed for the 10m MFVs, comprising of 40 tons of fish and 8 tons of shrimp.
5.10    Corstal Access Roads.  At appraisal it was estimated that this com-
ponent would benefit an estimated population of 75,000 in 100 villages and
would, among others, lead to an increase in fish production. However,
production has not been monitored at the villages (it would have required a
baseline survey, and thereafter regular monitoring surveys), and consequently
it is difficult to quantity the impact from the component. However, based on
visits made to a few villages influenced by the roads, and discussions with
local traditional fishermen, it is obvious that the component has made a
significant difference to the lives of the locai population.  Buses are
plying in previously inaccessible areas, and the marketing of fish and other
commodities has certainly become easier. The number of villages directly
influenced and their estimated populations are summarized in the table below:
No. of Villages           Population
Visakhapatnam                  28                    21,600
East Godavari                  41                    36,800
Guntur                         29                    32,400
Total         98                    90,800
5.11    Experimental Wooden Trawlers.  The likely impact of this component is
too early to assess, as the trawlers have yet to be launched and trial runs
made, which would give an indication of their performance as compared to the
steel hull trawlers. In terms of cost, the wooden trawlers are certainly
cheaper, with the experimental trawlers estimated to cost Rs 7.15 million
each; the cost of trawlers under commercial production would certainly be
lower. This compares with the Rs 8.5 million cost of imported trawlers at
present. However, conditions have changed since appraisal. First, wood has



-21-
become scarce and consequently more expensive. For the trawlers, wood was
obtained at Rs 82 per 3 ft (from the Government) as compared to the present
price of Rs 150 per 3 ft (if purchased from Government) and Rs 300 per 3 ft
(open market). Secondly, the construction of steel trawlers had started in
India, and consequently tne original objective of import substitution is less
compelling.
Income from Fishing Vessels
5.12    Operating income statements have been prepared for 23 m shrimp
trawlers and the lOm MFVs, and are given in Tables 16 and 17 respectively.
Prices used in the analysis are the average of prices obtained by fishermen
in the last three years. The results are summarized below:
23m Trawler             lOm MFV
Item                    S_         Present    SAR        Present
Investment Cost              4,500         8,500     169          230
Net Operating Income         1,604         2,087     51.1       103.5
Net Cash Flow                  629           738     17.1        64.7
Financial Rate of Return       33%           21%      31%         43%
5.13    As can be seen from the above, the net operating incomes from the
vessels are higher than those estimated at appraisal (30% higher for the 23m
trawler and 100% higher in the case of the 10m MFV). In spite of lower
catches than those projected at appraisal, incomes are higher on account of
considerably higher fish prices at present. The financial rate of return
(FRR), as a measure of the return on total investment, is however lower now
in the case of the 23m trawlers (as compared to appraisal) on account of the
near doubling of investment cost. The FRR for the MFV, though, is higher on
account of the comparatively smaller increase in its price.
Economic Re-Evaluation
5.14    As the harbours at Kakinada and Nizampatnam have not yet been com-
pleted and are not in use, it is not possible to assess their impact on
fishing activity, and consequently re-estimate economic rates of return (ERR)
from the investments made. The principal benefits would accrue from improved
quality of fish landed by the existing fleet, on account of better landing
facilities, as well as increased fis&- and shrimp production, once the har-
bours are completed. The latter would result from both an increase in fish-
ing vessels (generated as a result of stimulus provided by the investment),
as well as an increase in fishing days per vessels with the availability of
better protected harbours. Most of these expected benefits are difficult to
estimate and quantify at present.



-22-
5.15    In the case of Visakhapatnam, while the harbour has been completed,
available data does not allow for quantitative analysis to be carried out
to re-estimate the ERR. Table 18 presents data collected by the CMEU on
number of MFVs (excluding 23m trawlers) using the harbour, and their prawn
and fish landings between 1979-85. As can be seen, the number of MFVS
reported as using the harbour shows a declining trend between 1979-83. This
is despite the fact that more than half the 137 vessels financed under the
project came into operation during this period; and that annual vessel
registration data from Kakinada shows an increasing trend for these years.
Since then however, there has been a sharp increase recorded. Purthermore,
there appears to be little correlation between MPV numbers and the quantity
of fish landed. For example, the number of MFVs declined by nearly 30%, to
130 in 1980 (from 182 in 1979), but fish landings in that year went up to
8,930 tons (by 36X) from 6,551 tons in 1979. In 1985* 210 MFVs are recorded
as using the harbour, while fish landings are estimated at only 2,996 tons.
In addition to possible inconsistencies in data measuring and recording, it
is possible that the earlier decline in MFV numbers is on account of migra-
tion to other fishing harbours on the eastern coast. Also, as pointed out
earlier, not all fish is necessarily landed and recorded at the harbour.
With regard to the 23m trawlers, historical data on catch, fish landed, and
on prices received have not been recorded.
5.16    In view of the apparently high mobility of fishing vessels between
fishing harbours along the east coast, a fairly detailed survey of fishing
harbours on the east coast and of fishermen's pattern of operations would be
necessary before economic benefits from such infrastructural investment con
be quantified.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall Performance
6.01    Despite delays in implementation, IDA assistance under the project
has resulted in the development of essential infrastructure to support the
marine fisheries sub-sector at a time when the need for such facilities was
being keenly felt. While the decision to include the construction of a new
fishing harbour at Kakinada was justified in view of both the very poor
condition of the existing harbour and the rapid growth in fishing vessels
which has since taken place, the extent of likely construction difficulties
in the poor soil conditions was not foreseen. Although provision was made
for time required to carry out additional surveys and investigations within
the period of implementation, this proved to be inadequate. While the over-
all design of the project seems appropriate, with the benefit of hindsight,
it appears that the size of the credit component was too large. At the time
of appraisal, much of the commercial bank's experience in lending for MFVs
was restricted to Kakinada. Past experience there had shown that fairly
close bank supervision was necessary to effect loan recoveries on time.
However, no specific provision (in terms of manpower and cost) was made



-23-
within the project, to allow participatirg banks to adopt such an approach.
Finally, inadequate emphasis was placed on the functions of the CMEU, and how
these were to be carried out.
Supervision
6.02    A total of nine supervision missions were fielded by IDA between
September 1978 and October 1983. The composition of the missions was techni-
cally strong, and there was good continuity of staff between missions. The
latter was particularly important, given the complexities and technical
difficulties experienced during project implementation. It resulted in
constructive dialogue and rapport between the Bank staff and those of the
implementing agencies. As a result of suggestions made by the Bank during
supervision, additional survey and testing work was undertaken with regard to
the Kakinada harbour development proposals, where most of the difficulties
were faced.  In addition, the missions made concerted efforts, by discussions
with the various agencies involved, as well as by making detailed and
specific recommendations, to expedite the pace of project implementation.
The frequency of supervision missions was adequate. However, given that the
credit closing date was officially extended to March 1985, and that various
implementation problems were being faced, there should have been further
supervision of the project beyond October 1983.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01    Once all the harbours are completed and commissioned, the infrastruc-
ture created as a result of the project will meet the pressing needs of
fishermen in the project area, and generally on the east coast of India. The
latter is an important aspect in assessing the overall contribution of the
project, in view of the increasingly mobile approach adopted by fishermen in
carrying out their operations. The annual figures for new vessel registra-
tions show that the fishing fleet is growing rapidly, and consequently there
is a need for the development of complementary essential infrastructure to
service its needs.
7.02    While considerable problems have been faced in completing the
Kakinada harbour, it has certainly resulted in local engineers gaining con-
siderable experience and know-how in carrying out construction work under
particularly difficult soil conditions.
7.03    The coastal village access roads component has met an important
requirement of small fishing villages, with previously poor accessibility.
While quantitative data are not available to assess the component's impact,
it is immediately apparent that the construction of access roads has made a
significant difference to the lives of the local population.
7.04    On the other hand, however, overall project implementation has been
considerably delayed, and the achievement of targets set at appraisal for



-24-
disbursing credit to finance fishing vessels was poor. Participating baDks
were unable to develop an effective mechanism for recovering loans already
granted, and consequently stopped making further advances. With regard to
the technical assistance component. delays were experienced in recruiting
suitable consultants, which has resulted in delayed implementation par-
ticularly of the experimental trawler component. The delay in completing the
report on the training walls for Nizampatnam has meant that the proposed
investment could not be considered for inclusion within the project. These
factors have resulted in a large part (43X) of the IDA credit not being
disbursed, and subsequently being cancelled.
7.5     The principal lesson which can be learned from the experience gained
in implementing this project is that adequate investigation and design work
should be completed prior to appraisal. this would allow for a better
appreciation of complex problems which can emerge during implementation, as
occurred at Kakinada. Once the court provides judgement on the dispute
between GOAP and the breakwater contractor at Kakinada, it may be possible to
identify more specific lessons from the Kakinada harbour experience.
7.6     The implemeutation of construction works at Kakinada has also shown
that where closely interrelated civil works have to be carried out, and the
completion of certain works are contingent on completing other allied works,
it may be desirable to carry out the works under one overall, rather than
separate contracts.
7.7     Other lessons which emerge from the implementation experience of this
project. include:
(a) the desirability to include within a project which has a sizeable
credit component. specific provisions for credit recovery. par-
ticularly for sectors where prior experience in recovering loans has
been poor; and
(b) in the case of components where technical assistance consultants are
expected to be closely involved with implementation, it is better
to provide for resident consultants, as considerable delays can occur
(as happened in this project) if advice has to be sought through
correspondence from a non-resident consultant.



ANDHRA PRAOESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Comoarison of Aooraisal and Actual Costs
AoJpraisal Estimates               Actuals 1/                   Actual as % of A.cpraisal
Ltem                           units    Rs'OOO   USS'OOO       inits       Rs'OOO    USS'OOO    Units    Rs'OOQ    USS'OQO
I % I. DUevLyI onmeftt
Visakhopatnam                               80.059      9.309              -  69.151 2J 7.436                    86          80
Kakinada                                    76.701      8.919                  84.436 V/ 8,335                   110        93
N I zamp t IIdual                           10.203      1.186                   11.892 &/ 1.168                  117         98              1
Still-Total                      116,963    19,414                  165.479   16.939                   99          87             >
-  'j  A.c es R  ads
Iskhakpatitam Disttict          98 km    16.828        1.957        48        17.317    1.701        49        103         87
e ast Godavari District           69 km    12,300       1,430        61         15.544    1,627       8B         126        114
Gw*tt,r Distri:t                 4f km    12.6f39      1,470        42         8.788        953       8e         70         65
i.up_-Trtat                       41,767      4.857                  41,649    4.281                   100         88
Ni4ampmatnam Water SuDDlv                        579          67                   1,552       161                 268        240
F,skhSnn Vessels
1Dm MFV                          300        68.337      7,946       137        27.811    2.942        46         41         37
9m MFV                           60         9.156      1.065        -           -           -          -          -          -
lZmn ston-MFV                     60         2.896        337        -           -          -          -          -           -
5J.LILXLOtA±            420        80.389      9.348       137        27.81t    2.942        33          35         31
Seafoott PxcE.Cssinc FJcilities               12,300      1.430         -           -          -          -          -
j*.eL jisLL  I ASs._ts
Riv4*  Tra1iclesj Sp,ecialist    :I m .i,      2tl7        24                       46         5                 22          21
Naval Architect                  6 m/m         473         55                      756        79                 160        143
Wooden Hlull Trawlers            2          10,000      1.163         2        14.297    1.216        t00        143        105
Overseas Study lour              20 m/m        900        105         10 M/M       323        41      50         36          39
SotoJ-rotaI                        11.5H0      1,347                  15,422    1,341                   133        100
lo"a  Losteg                      3 t._§78    36.463                 25t.9t3   25.664                   AD         Z0
s%ttudtt's pvesuet estimates tor cost-, of completing the harbours, roads, and the experirnental t.awlers.
*  tat. e-. 2 4 irespoctively for breakdtow,  of actual costs.



- 26 -
Table 2
INDIA
ANIHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-11N)
Visakhapatnam HarKour - Actual and Anticipated Expenditure
Item                      Expenditure         Costs for         Total       Appraisal
Up To 15-3416      CowPletion         Costs       Estimates
..... ..... (Rs'OOO0)....
Preliminary Works                          234           -               234           661
Additional Quay Works                    37,109          -            37.109 j]    4e,061
Additional Slipway Facilities            2.178           -             2,178         2.194
Rock Dredging                             1.791          -             1,791         2.261
Buildings                                  903           3502/         1.253         1,993
Roads, Drains and Culverts                  372          -               372         1,137
water Supply                               426                           426           330
Equipment for Additional                 6.127           -             6.127         2,962
Sli way
Power Supply Equipment                   3,818                         3,898         2,259
Land Acquisition                         2,468           bi0           3,278         4,756
Engineering                              5.759           263           6.022         4,771
Navigational Facilities                     807          693           1,500           -
Rock lund                                2,750         1.311           4,061           -
Contingencies                               189          713             902           -
SAR Price Contingencies                                 -                           16.674
Total         64.931        4.220           69.151       80,059
3/ Includes a claim for Rs4.3 million from contractor which is under dispute, to be settled by
arbitration.
/ Only construction of gear store still to be done.
N/ ot provided for at appraisal.



e.QnOA PRADfSH rISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit ets-I"N
%isinada laibour - Actual artd Anticinata Ej7 e oiturev
Expenditure          Costs for          Tot.j           Aaoeaisal
1£Qj                      Up To 20.3.86          Comolat.on        5 I 1'           Ltfie
.. ..................................... ..................
.ecakwate.  A Csad Dr-sits         26.592                10.723           37.3iS           28.750
Landing Quay                        8.363              )                )                   4.025
Berthing Ouay R Jetties             5.020              )  4.073           30.909            6.325
Trawler Landing Quay               13.446              )                )                  5.750
Auttiont heals                          s              )                )                   2.070
Oredging Channel a Oasin              it5                     5              120            2.300
Boat Repair Facility                1.297                   503            1.800            t.550
Buildings                             261                    58              319              610
R*ads & Drainage                       104                   136             240              6tO
services a Utilities                2.075                   614            2.689            3.044
superv sIla. "OsC#ges               6.342                 1.501            7.843            5.543
Unforeseen,                           151                   737              6ee              -
M.P.W. Advantres                    2.113                   -              2.113              -
SAP Price Contingencies                -                    -                 -            16.124
Total            65.886                18.550           84.436           76.701
Sourc : Project Executive Engineers' Office.
I/ Excludes aiy cost which way arise on the resolution of presently ongoing court case
regardingt breakwater contr-ct.
1r



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Nizamoatnam Harbour - Actual and Ant$cipated Exoenditures
Expenditure          Costs for           Total      Appraisal
Iteal                     Up To 23.3.86         Comoletion           Cost       Estimate
............................. ....................(Rs  000) ........ ........ .........
Dredging of Basin                    1.295                  440              1.735        961
Excavatiott in Hdrbouw Ase             225                   27                252        961
Revetnenst                             243                   70                313         199
Quay Wall with Ramp                  1.125                   98              1.223      .1611
Auction Hall                         1.019                   -               1.019        455
Surfwcing Harbour Area                 286                  757                543        405
Buildings                              796                   84                800         291
Approacls Road                       2.505                   48              2.553       2.009
Marine & Maintenance Facilities        448                  114                562         345
Services & LUtilites                   984                   20              1.004        987
tUnforeseen                            758                  100                ass          -
Supervision Charges                    713                  237                950        643
SAR Price Contingencies                 -                    -                  -       2.297
Total                10.397                1.495  1/         11.892 I/  10,03
Source: Project Executive Enintieets  Office
If Tthis ixclt*des the rost of training walls . ch were not included under project.
Work has just started on these. and they are estimated to cost Rs7.375 million.



INDIA
AtMHRA PRADESt FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Phystcal Parametgra of Principoal WRrS
Orininal Dsaigned        Revised Quantity         Status December
Item                Quantity                                          t9H5
lak inada
Sand Drains                          -                     74.08t m               74.081 m
Filter                            16,960 m3                40.000 m3              36.330 m3
Rubble                           145.830 m3                175.500 m3            157.323 m3 1/
Armour                            22.680 m3                 20.200 m3             16.634 m3 21
Road ont Breakwater                1.080 m                   1.080 nm                -       3/
Construction Wave Wall               650 m                     650 m                  10 m
Service Duct                         -                       2.2tO                   - _    4/                           t
Landing Quay                         150 m                     150 m                 150 m
Outfitting Ouay                      153 m                     152 a                 152 mi
Berthing Jetty (No.1)                185 m                     189 m                 tfg m
Betthing Jetty (No.2)                s88 m                     178 m                 178 m 
Trawler Quay                         160 m                     t60 a                 160 m
Auctlon Hall                           2                         2               not completed
0oat Repair Faci7ities             5.511 m2                  5.511 m2              4.756 m2
buildings                            184 m2                    184 m2                184 m2
Services. Power, Pipes                 6 km                      6 km                  6 km
Roads                              0,249 km                 0.249 km               0.249 km
Rocks for Breakwater             not specified             not specified         347.253 m3 intalled
15,000 m3 left
Nizamoatnam
Diedgitig                         22,000 m3                 22,000 m3             22.000 m3 fJ
Excavation                        31,000 m3                31.000 .3              31.000 m3
Revetment                            480 m                     555 a                 470 m
Quays                              196.5 m                     214 a                 214 m
Auction Hall                         881 m2                  1.690 m2              1.680 .2 6J
Surfacinq                          9.650 .2                 9,130 m2               7,098 m2 7J
Admi. Buildings                      300 m2                    300 mZ                30U m2
Canteen, Shops, Toilets              200 m2                    200 m2                200 m2
Hartour Approach Road                  3 km                   3.05 km               3.05 km
Workshop                             160 m2                    160 m2                160 m2 ./_
It Trusnk of breakwater  (880m) completed up to plus 2.60. level, berms partly completed.                             1
Spur of 200m laid up to plus 2.00n  level.
2/ Armiourgisi work in progress from Ch.430m to end of spur.
3/ To be done after coapletion of breakwater.
4/ For water and power supplies. Work. to be done.
S/ Desilting with grab dredger in progress.
6/ Earmarked for geas  stores (420m2), auction hall (120m2). processing and cold stole
(1, 140.2).
7/ Original contractor  arkced out. Agency fixed top. and work now in progress.
D/ Only bhfiding completed.



OIAL
ANOHRA PRADESH fISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
At;ocatlon of Credit Proceeds
ApDraisal          Actual          Amount           Actual as j
Cateaory             Allocation      Disbursement       Cancelled        of Aporaisal
(1) Civil Works                 11.300            7.900           3.400               70
(2) Equipment & Materials          600              955             (115)1/          119 I/
(3) Loans by ARDC                3.900              678            3.222              17
(4) Consultant Services.
Study Tours, and                                                                                               L
Experimental Trawlers    1,200                444             756               37                             0
(5) UJnallocated                   300       .       -               300               0
Tgta1           17.500 9L97L                       7.523 /            57
j/ No reallocation of loan proceeds was carried out.
.2/ 43l% of total credit.
I-



INDIA
ANODSRA PRADESH FISIIERIES PRQJLCT
(Credit BIS-IN)
lankina Plan for Vns.1s. nad Actual financing
Bankins Plan It                  Actual            RptuianCe by   Total Recov2LY    Ovrdue as
Bank                   lOm      be       tz   Thotal   Jj0.9f.V 1/ Total Lgan       NA3AR. i                            ot DekAnG
.........*          ...be.) .      (No.)       (Rs'OOO)   ........ (Rs'000) ..........              (S)
*,tate Bank of lnila          30        10      IS       55        22            2.533       2.163               -               tOO
*  Aoahra bank                   5S         IS     lO       80        20            2.124        1.620            416                 78
*1 Uaik of u aBetut               50         -      -       50        34            2.660       2.034             349                 90
Al' 'tate Cooperative Bank   96          IS     1S      126        36            5.,80       4.767             908                86
§.* 'f i,idia                 34        to     to       54        15            1.371        1.097              -                100
! '."tIan Sank                    15         5     10       30        10            2.430        1.974              -                 OI
C Centtat Bank                    to        -       -       10        -               -           -                 _
t 5yndicste Bn%                  lO         S       -       t5        -               -           -                 -                -           w
Total         30                        4      . 137             t7.01S      13-655         1i.6t3                 _
'-""     NABARD. Hyderabad.
Revised Banking Plan drawn up in 1982. when four more banks (Nos.5-B) were inducted into the progr-ame.
N one of the 9a and 120 vessels were financed under the project.



- 32 -
Table 8
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Present Staffing of FTO's
Staff Posts                VisakhPatnam      Kakinada       Nizampatnam
Dy. Director of Fisheries              1               1                 1
Gazetted Assistant                     1               1
Senior Assistant                       1               1                 1
Junior Assistant                       1               1                 1
Typist                                 1               1                 1
Attender                               1               -                 1
Driver                                  1                                -
Inspector of Fisheries                 1               7                2
Mechanic                                               1                 1



INDIA
ANtDHRA PRAOESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
C - Comparative Balance Sheets
As at the Year End - 30 June
1985       1984       198,3,    t982       1981     1980
........................ .......................(Rs'OOO).
Assets
Fixed Assets                     10,076   10.541    11.106      12.069    13.104    14,042
Capital Works under Progress   11,101    7.644       6.415       5,792      4.842     2.645                          1
Cutretit Assets                  9,794   10.637       9.645     13.378    14.850    13.808
Loans & Advances                 7.416    4.255      4,854       4,880    24.027      7.002
iTal _1.I38.387   33.077    32.020                            36.119 .  5-6-8-     37 497
Caoital .& LiabiIities
Sthare Capital                  30.020   26.886    26.386       26.386    27.356    16.Q16
Subsidies & Grants               19.308   15.931    14.414      13.278    13.208    11t,1"9
Capital Reserve                    451       451        451        45t        451       451
Accumulated Losses             (46.617) (45.218)  (40.569)   (33.350)  (27.177)  (17.657)
Met Wor-th                     3.16    , (1.950)     682       6.765    13A83    tO.OS9
Securee1 Loans                   3.608    3.50t    .3,632        4.149    24.132      7.297
Unsecured Loans                  16.036   14.307    12.327      11.476      2.014     7.697
Cnrrent Liabilities             15.581   17.219    15,379       13.729    16.839    12.444
Total Caoital & Liabilities  38.387   33.077    32 020        36.119    56823   ,37.497
5QuAIe: Unaudited Accounts of APFC.                                                                                   I!



- 34 -
Table 10
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
APFC - Annual Revenue and Expenses 1/
For the Year Ending 30 June
1985     1984       1983       1982      1981     1980
Revenue
Sales Revenue        27,026   22,872    28,721    35,466   49,930   27,685
Other Income            582       312        410        767      654       387
Total         27,608   23.184    29,161    36.233   472584   282072
Expenses
Depreciation            738       756        837       964    1,114    1,248
Interest              1,562    1,687      1,272      1,014    1,785        695
Operating & Other
Expenses           26,478   25,089    32,652    39,214   53,773   30,785
Total        28.778   27,532    34,761    412192   56,672   32,728
(12170)  (4,348)   (5,600)   (4,959)  (9,088)  (4,656)
1/ Restated from APFC Provisional Profit and Loss Accounts (Unaudited).



INDIA
AND"RA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 81S-IN)
Ouick Fcrexina and Ice Making Facilities in Pro-lect Area
Ice makhina             Ice Storago               Freezing Plant              Frozen Storpue
Un1 Ut                                 Caacac1t Un1it Caputacity                 Unit      Capacity
(No.)   (tont/day)         (No.)        (tons)        (No.)      (tons/day)    (No.)        (tonts)
kakinada            20          144             7            Ito            6            2S             6         700
Visskhapatnam        8          137             6            475           10            64.3          10       1.365
1tzawpatniam                     25             -             -             -             -             I          so
(Sinkapatem)
Total              30                                                    ISQi  13  51   89.3          t1       2.115



- 36 -
Table 12
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Fishing Vessels in the Project Area 1/
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Visakhapatnam
23 m trawlers                 65    67    61    78    75    77    86    86
11 m vessels (Sorrah)         30    16    15    21    17    18        9    25
10 m vessels (Royya)         152   114   168   151   131   167   201   295
9 m vessels (Pablo)          15    -      -     -      -      -     -      -
Total                        262   197   244   250   223   262   296   406
Nizampatnam
11 m vessels (Sorrah)         10    10    10    20    90   132   144   n.a.
10 m vessels (Royya)          63    73    93   100    63    63    53   n.a.
9i m vessels (Pablo)         40    40    40    38    28    23        8   n.a.
Non-mechanized vessels       n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  150   n.a.
Total                        113   123   143   158   181   218   205
1/ Data which show total number of boats using the Kakinada harbour are
not available on a seasonal/annual basis (only on a daily/monthly
basis). Table 13 shows annual registrations of new vessels in Kakinada.



- 37 -
TabLe 13
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Annual Registrations of Fishing Vessels in Kakinada (Number)
1979    1980    1981    1982   1983   1984    1985
Registrations Each Year
llm vessels (Sorrah)       8         6      1         4     29      30      15
lOin vessels (Royya)      74       116     26        16     81      81      19
9m vessels (Pablo)       13        13      4         1       5      4        1
Total        95       135     31        21    115    115        35
Cumulative
llm vessels (Sorrah)       8        14     15        19     48      78      93
lOm vessels (Royya)       74       190    216       232    313    394      413
9m vessels (Pablo)       13        26     30        31     36      40      41
rotal        95       230    261       282    397    512       547



AA!4   PQfRAOESH FtSHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Averaoe Landing Prices of Shrimo and Fish in Visakhauatna
1980       19{11     1982      1983      1984    1985        1986 I/
Fists (Rs/kg)       0.55       0.78      1.31      1.25      1.75    2.20        ?.35
Slirimp (Rs/hqa)                                                                                                            I
Tiger C1             42         53        St        76        85       70         105                                     OD
White C2             43         53        61        47        50       33          86
Brown C3             21         30        33        47        50       33         47                                       1
Small CIO             5          8         6         6         8       10          1S
j/ As In March 1986.
I!



- 39 -
TabLe 15
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Escalation in Diesel and Lubricatina Oil Prices
Pefriod                     Diesel                 Lubricating Oil
Price       Index            Price        Index
(Ri7sTTre)                 (Rs/5Tlitres)
From  1-1978               1.34         100             10.05         100
2-1978               1.36         101               tu
11-1978               1.47         110              of
11-1979               1.58         118            11.05          110
7-1980               2.33         174              n
1-1981               2.75         205            12.05          120
7-1981               3.11        232             16.55          165
2-1983               3.34         249              "             U
7-1983               3.42         255                           it
9-1983               3.37         251                           Is
8-1985               3.56         267            17.00          169



INDIA
AND"RA PRADES" FISHERIES PROJECT,
(Credit 815-tN)
Cash Flow Projection 23m Shrimo Trawler
Av. Catci-t      Av. PriCe         Revenue/Costs       SAR Estimates
Ltvm             Tons/Unit !k                            R' Oa               Rs'000
Revenue from Catch
Shrimp I/                    65                 75               4.875
Fish                         60                  3                 180
Total                                        -              5055                3070
Ooeratifin Costs
Fuel & lubricants ai          -                  -               1,278
Maintenance  /                --                                   565
Stores 4/                                        -                 275
Port Fees                                        -                  60
Water                         _                   _                  4
Insurance  /                                                       215
Miscellanleous                -                   -                 60
Wages §/                      -                   -                Si                 -
To Aaj_ _rVatin _C_.t   -                    -              2,968               1.466
Ooeratintu Income             -                  -               2.087               1,604
Presepn-t I v-estmegjLCoQstl                                     8.500               4.500
FinanacitJW   Ml Loan                                            6.800 7/            3.600
Owtn FustiJs                                        1.700._ 900
Nb.Jit se uvi.jlt)i                                              1.350 7/              975
Avesaqe_As_uj l Net Cash Flow                                      738                 629
Fi,iaitclal Rtte of Retutn r/                                      21                  33%
1/ Shrimps beheaded and deepfrozen. 7% Cl. 19% C2. 42% C3. 32% C4.
2/ Lubricants 5% of fuel costs. fuel 78 litre/hour. 17 hrs/day. 270 days/year.
Rs3.40/litre (trawlers get a subsidy on fuel at 50% of sales tax).
J/ Inclutdes yeatly geteeral overhaul vessel.
4/ Ir.cludes food and fisrhing gear.
/ 2.f68% of new vessels I)#ice.
§/ Capt. at Rs3O.000. mate and chief engineer at Rs24.000. 9 crew at Rsl2.000 each.
plus Rs325.000 bonts for all crew.
7/ Ml Loan at 12.5%. Debt servicing estimated on on the basis of an 8 year repayment
period.
8/ Estimated on total investment, over a period of 10 years (as in the SAR).



- 41
- 41 -                         Table 17
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Cash Flow Projection 10m Trawler (ROYYA)
Averaqe    Averaqe  Revenue/        SAR
Item                    catcrun    Pr ce/ku   Costs         Estimate
(tons)    ........... Rupee.......... .
Revenue From Catch
Shrimp 1/        17%                    8        34.00   272,000
Fish            83%                    40         2.00    80,000
Total     100%                   48                  352,000       172,500
Operating Costs
Fuel and Lubricants (8% of
Fuel Costs) 2/                                          123,525
Maintenace Hull and Engine 3/                              22,500
Fishing Gear Maintenance and
Replacement 4/                                           22,400
Insurance 5/                                                5,450
Port Dues  6/                                               1,600
Miscelldneous                                               3,000
Wages 7/                                                   702000
Operating Costs                                           248,475       121,400
Operating Income                                          103,525        51,100
Present investment Cost                                   230,000       169,000
Financing - MT Loan (85%)                                 195,500 8/   143,700
- Own Funds (15%)                               34.500        25,300
Debt Servicing                                             38,777 8/    34,000
Average Annual Net Cash Flow                               64.748        17,100
Financial Rate of Return 9/                                  43%           31%
1/  7% Cl Rs77/kg, 19% C2 Rs43/kg, 42% C3 Rs43/kg, 32% C4 Rs8/kg, average
Rs34/Kg, average of last 3 years 1983-1985.
2/  250 fishing days, 12 hours/day, 125 litre/day Rs3.66/litre.
3/  Rs15,000 for hull Rs7,500 for engine.
4/  6 nets Rs2,000 each, 4 otterboards Rs600 each, 8OOm warp RslO/m.
5/  RsS,OOO for vessel, Rs45O for crew.
3/ 8 months at Rs200 per month.
7/ 20X of gross value of catch.
8/ MT Loan at 12.5% debt servicing estimated on the basis of an 8 year
repayment period.
9/  Estimated on total investment over a period of 10 years.



- 42 -
TabLe 18
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PR0iECT
(Credit 815-IN)
Vi2akhaDatnam - MFV& 1/ L Fish Ian,dinos Recorded
MrV Numb(er           Prawn and Fish Landinos
urn    ilia  X±.I..L       .Ej.Aa   f £i    Toa
........  tons .
1979                 30      152   182            848    5,703   6,551
1980                 16      114   130            847    8,084   8,930
1981                 15      168   183            698    5,237   5.935
1982                 21      151   172            643    4,023   4,666
1983                 1?      131   148            571    4,059   4,630
1984                 18      16?   185          1,025    3,742   4,?67
1985                  9      201   210            384    2,612   2,996
1986                 25      295   320           n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
Source: fTO, Visakhapatnam
l/ Excludes 23m trawler for which data on landings is not recorded.



MAI AAR  T A                 I LA 8      0
AIIB--NAOAn                                                                A
1LA         KA It     A     RANDP RA PRADESH OISERES PROJECT
APROJECT DITRICTS AND OARBOURS
Q       AA p tK                            _ I    E
I N D IIIANOCENA
rv%s.*ne                 _r n                            ._   .                                - .PFIOJ   Ct
( Credit eiry-M )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- INDIA -
ANDHRA PRADESIl FISHERtES PROJECT
( CREDIT 815 - IN )
KAKINADA HARBOUR - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
I T E M                 1 979   |   1980       1981        1982        1983       1984        1985       1986        1987
I - BREAKWATER WITH ROAO               _DDI                         .
2 - LANDING JETTY ( tO m BOATS )         li_@ 
3 - OUT FITTING BERTHING JETTY         amm nnmm_                          _      _
(10 m BOATS)                                                                                                   __
4 - 8ERTHtN13 JETTY( t om BOATS )                                                                                 mmi  m   -  _     
5 - TRAWLER JETTY t 23 m BOATS-)            mm                                                                         10!_ 
6 - AUCTION HALLS                                  am --_                    I  -wnm  a19__                       noE13
7 - DREDGING CWANNEL AND BASIN    ,          mim                                       0    L E  T    0
8 - BOAT REPAIR FACIUTY                                                                                             SHOP
9 - BUILDINGS
10 - ROADS AND DRAINAGE                       I_
tt - POWER WATER AND FUEL SUPPLY
flfmmnm AS PER APPRAISAL REPORT                   I ALREADY EXECUTEO                  E3E TO SE DOtE



- JN3 1 A -
ANOIRA PRAOESH FISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 8t5 - IN)
NIZAMPATNAM HARBOUR - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
I T E Um                1979        1980       ___        1982   |  1983         1984        1985       1986        1987
I DREDGING                        mm= 1 _- ._
2 EXCAVATION                         nnnO8pl 1
3 - REVETMENT              _.             .___.._
_ _~~~~~~ _
4 - OUAY AND RAMP                                   u             I
S - AUCTION HALL                                                                   -        -  1
6 - SURFACING PORT AREA                                   i                                                      im
~~~~--I__
7- BUILDINGS                                                            -
o - APPROACH ROAD 
9 - MARINE FACILITIES                                                          -il
10 - POWER WATER AND LIGHTING                       am m
I1 - TRAININO WALLS
M-i1_0M AS PER APPRAISAL REPORT                     AtREAY EXEiAUTED                USK3 TO BE DONE



THIS PAGE
I BLANK s  i 4 
v  11X | A  \I 



*                        - ~~~~~~~~~47-
-   -               ~~~~~~ANNEX I
No. 33013-2/87mPy(H)          I Page 1
Government of India
Ministry of Agriculture
(Deptt. of Agri, & Coopn)
New Delhi-io Dto the 8th May, 1987.
Coments from GOI
To
Mre Graham Donaldson,
Chief, Agriculture & Human Resource
Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
World Bank,
1818 H Street, NeW.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U*S*A.
Sir,
Kindly refer to your letter dated 5th March, 1987
regarding the draft Project Completion Reports in respect
of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project, 1394-IN/
Credit 695-IN and Credit 815-IN respectively. A letter
addressed1 to the Department of Econoriic Affairs, M4inistry
of Pinance, in this ccrinecti.on is enclosed.
Yours faithfully,
(B,N.  ris       hy)
Degut    :missioner (PH)



5,3,                ~~~~~~- 48 -   ~ ~   ~t.as.y
Belo       at                   e     609 58*31387-V(Ng)
hp^  §9"l    (PR)                           RXc  1,4011   A.NNEX I
(* 'ge 2
jNwR, qlfl -ttooot
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
( DEPARTTMENT OF AGRICULTURE A COOPERATION)
Krishi Shawan. New DelhlI 110001
Dla1od fato5 So1t ll7
Dear
las rOtr to the cOPY of th !20er 30 4(1 )/864LAVn
datd 9th Aprl,  9  endorsed to Joint Deoer e7g              gs
department e          comments on the draft o.ojo   omplot;La  report
In respect of World Ban  assist d lote  ted           lotion reot
I                                                    isar aies  ro,Pade
we ha bee ustin, for th  detailed oo                ho stat
Govroments.  We ba  not "i received their 00usentse However, as ar
as th  comments fZro   Is MiWntry is conooeraed, It i stated here that
heU ai World Bo kpojeot. &WoWW.Issed quite statiactorily diring tb
poae  ped wis thinte given constrints of administration aJd othe
proeere  that  ere followed an both goverant of India and World phuk
Mie* It Isi knonLfttat ihe oredit acmponent o ,e0    plro ts mad a
POWt ahoy, the Plhsica targeti In reepeet of       so   s ing vessels
snvieaamed to be achieved utill isirh cs redit faciliyune the prject
;7j;    OUl %0%. hftjLsmI of -L   Wrd  auk funds aintthe P  
component vms not utili  r.Bth the St.t*Goemstan  this Ministy
sede concerted efforts to LUIWpov the oredit utilisatior with respect
to the lending9GI  prpxme. setin  at the state level and at the central
level of the officers of the conoered nationalised banks were conveed
to Iaprss upn the banking authioriis the necessity of improving the
lending performane. the banks oontinued with their stand that vnless
the repayment of a few loms omtioned earlie improved, they vwer not
In a position to tqke up new leadings, All this haLppene becase the
banks did not brve'"Veoper collection machinery at the field level to
motivate the fishemen In repayment of loans.
Simultaneously the State Governmentu bad their own lending
pro s for introduction of the. fishing.vessels, During the same,
peniodthyvrsuooesaful bothIn lendinges well a a  migthe
recovris   floms frm the benefi.taries., the Depa~rtment of Fisheries
hd undertaken the* ropame of lending direotly to the beneficiariesl,
not thronWg  natioalised banks.*  eo swces of the Flshories Department
ms attributed to the deployment of satisfactory ollectlon machinry
at Uhe field level.
In view of the above, t o ould be stated that ono of the
lessons leaned frm the World huh projects ma that It would be not
praticable to entut the  lpogr              to the nationalized banks
In th  cmos of lending moey to fiehom   for purcser of boats vhen
thy ladk in required motivating field personnel. Instead, the credit
Me to be rooted directly t1rou& fte State Directorate of pisheries.
We have no other comments to make,
With
Tours sincerelyI,
e4.-                                               ..,.



- 49 -                          ANNEX I
Page 3
8b:ri ReD, Jathouri
Thder Seoretary (")
Department of Eoonomic Affairs,
Ninistr of Pinance,
North Rock,



