Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILLL C  Y
Report No.1896a-IN
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 15, 1978
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



,CURRENCY EQUIVALENT I/
US$1.00      =    Rs 8.60
Rs 1.00      =    US$0.116
Rs 1,000     -    US$116.279
Rs 1,000,000       US$116,279.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
APFC     -   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation Ltd.
APFD     -   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Department
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BCC      -   Backward Class (Cooperative Finance) Corporation
CCC      -   Central Coordinating Committee (GOI)
CIFT     -   Central Institute of Fishery Technology
CMFRI    -   Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute
CMU      -   Catch Monitoring Unit
DS       -   District Subcommittee
EFP      -   Exploratory Fisheries Project
FTO      -   Fishery Terminal Organization
COAP     -   Government of Andhra Pradesh
OI      -   Government of India
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
KBBY     -   Kakinada Boat Building Yard
MEU      -   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFV      -   Mechanized Fishing Vessel (trawler-gillnetter)
PISFH    -   Pre-investment Survey of Fishing Harbors
MPEDA    -   Marine Products Export Development Authority
PB       -   Participating Bank
PCC      -   Project Coordinating Committee
SPD      -   State Ports Department
SFDA     -   Small Farmers Development Agency
VPT      -   Visakhapatnam Port Trust
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........................................                         1
II.    THE MARINE FISHERIES SECTOR  ..........................                         1
Fisheries Sector  ................................                       1
Marine Fisheries  ................................                       2
Shrimp Fisheries  ................................                      3
Marine Fisheries of Andhra Pradesh  ....                ..........      4
Fisheries Administration                                                5
Status of the Gujarat Fisheries  Project                                7
III.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                         7
Objectives and Major Features.                                           7
Harbor  Improvement  ..............................                      8
Visakhapatnam  ..............................                     8
Kakinada  ...................................                     8
Nizampatnam  ................................                     9
Village Access Roads and Nizampatnam Water  Supply                     10
Credit  for Fishing Vessels  .....              .................      12
Credit  for Seafood Plants  .....              ..................      12
Technical Assistance  ............................                     13
IV.    PROJECT COSTS,  FINANCING,  PROCUREMENT,  DISBURSEMENT,
AUDITING AND ACCOUNTS  ................................                       14
Cost Estimates .............                                           14
Financing  .......................................                     16
Project  Implementation  ..........................                    16
Lending Terms  and Conditions  ....................                    17
Procurement .....................................                      18
Disbursement ....................................                      19
Accounts and Audit  ..............................                     20
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..........................                        20
Coordination and Implementation  ....                .............     20
Project Cootdinating  Committee  ....              .........     20
GOI Central  Coordinating  Committee  ....            .....      20
District  Subcommittees  .....................                   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
GOAP Department of Fisheries ....................                21
GOAP State Ports Department  .....................              21
GOAP Panchayati Raj Department  ....            ..............   21
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation ....            ........    22
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................                22
Credit Organization ................................                23
Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation ...................................               23
Institutional Assistance to Small Fishermen .....               23
VI.   PROJ]ECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ....            .........    23
Production ......................................               23
Marketing .......................................               24
Prices ..........................................               24
VII.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................                 25
Financial Analysis  ..............................              25
Cost Recovery of Investment in Harbors ....           ......    25
Economic Analysis  ...............................               25
Project Beneficiaries  ...........................              26
Long Term Development Impact ....................               27
Risks ...........................................               27
Environmental Effect ............................               27
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................                 27
ANNEXES
1.   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation - Financial
Position Summary
2.   Fishing Vessels
3.    Project Cost Estimates
4.    Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
5.   Economic Analysis
6.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
7.    Related Documents and Data in Project File



-3-
CHARTS
Government of India Fisheries (18462)
Project Related Ministries, Fisheries and State Ports Department (18391)
Department Gf Fisheries (18390)
Relation between District Administration and Fisheries Department (18392)
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation (18381)
Fishing Vessels (18180-18183)
Project Implementation Schedule (18367)
Implementation Schedule - Harbor Construction (18416)
Schematic Plans of Seafood Processing Plants (18229 and 18228)
MAPS
Project Districts and Areas (13248)
Visakhapatnam - Proposed Harbor Improvements and Facilities (13252)
Kakinada - Proposed New Fishing Harbor (13253)
Nizampatnam - Proposed New Harbor and Facilities (13254)
Nizampatnam District (13250)
East Godavari District (13251)
Guntur District (13249)






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has asked for an IDA credit of US$17.5
million to help finance a fisheries project in the State of Andhra Pradesh.
GOI attaches high priority to marine fisheries development and, in particular,
to this project which would be the second in a series of Bank-group financed
marine fisheries projects in India, and the first major fisheries development
project on the east coast.
1.02      Following an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission in July/September
1975, potential marine fisheries projects were identified for Gujarat, Andhra
Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. 1/ Appraisal of the
Gujarat Fisheries Project was undertaken in May/June 1976 and the Credit/Loan
became effective in July 1977. The proposed Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project
would make a major contribution to India's marine fishing industry by facili-
tating exploitation of rich fishery resources, particularly shrimp, off the
Andhra Pradesh coast. In addition, the project would provide a stepping stone
in India's development of a deep-sea fishing fleet, and would make a major
beginning in helping small subsistence fishermen in isolated fishing villages.
The project was prepared by the Department of Fisheries of the Government of
Andhra Pradesh (GOAP).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs D. Lee, L. Sprague, R. Reidinger (IBRD), and B. Meeke, Y.N.
Kim and C. Hamlin (Consultants) and R. Deshpande (ARDC), that visited the
project area in September/October 1977. Mr. E. Ruderfer (IBRD) assisted
the mission. The cyclone which devastated the coast of Andhra Pradesh in
November 1977 has not affected the mission's findings, since reports indi-
cate that it caused negligible damage to the mechanized fishing fleet and
in the proposed project areas.
II. THE MARINE FISHERIES SECTOR
Fisheries Sector
2.01      Fishermen.  The fishing industry in India employs about 5.5 million
workers, or 1.0% of the population. About 1.0 million of them are full-time
fishermen, while the rest are part-time or employed in fisheries related in-
dustries, such as marketing, net making, boat building and so forth. The vast
1/   India Fisheries Project Identification/Preparation Mission, 2 volumes,
Report No. 5/76 IND-27, January 26, 1976.



-2-
majority of fishermen are very poor, although there has been considerable im-
provement in their standard of living in recent years, especially for those
engaged in the export shrimp industry. They are generally hard working and
skillful, and come from all the major religious groups in India. Notably,
many fishing communities come under the purview of Government programs designed
to assist people belonging to the scheduled classes and as such have special
protections and privileges under the law. The fishing industry in India is
commonly classified into inland fisheries and marine fisheries, with the
latter further subdivided into traditional and commercial fisheries. Total
production of fish for 1976 was 2.2 million tons of which about 0.8 million
tDns was from inland fish production and 1.4 million tons was marine catch.
Marine Fisheries
2.02      India lies between about 80 and 370 N latitude and between about
613 and 972 E Longtitude and has about 5,650 km of coastline and about
415,000 km  of continental shelf (to the 200 m depth contour).  About 32% of
the shelf is oni the east coast. The oceanographic climate of India's adjacent
seas is tropical and is dominated by two monsoon seasons, the southwest monsoon
fr-om May to September and the northeast monsoon from November to March.
2.03      The total marine fish catch rose from 580,000 tons in 1950 to 1.4
miLllion tons in 1976. During this same period, the fleet of mechanized fish-
ing vessels (MFVs) rose from 23 to about 12,000.  The main factor contributing
to this rapid motorization of the fishing fleet was the attractive world shrimp
market coupled with abundant shrimp resources along the coasts of India.
Much of the catch of bottom fish species harvested by trawlers is incidental
to the shrimp catch which is the primary purpose of the operations.
2.04      TradiLtional non-mechanized vessels (Non-MFVs) operating from 1,800
fishing villages along the coastline of India have an operational range of
about 8 km from the shore. MFVs concentrated around fishing harbours, river
mouths and creeks operate up to about 20 km from their bases and in depths of
up to about 40 m. Despite rapid mechanization during the last two decades,
over 70% of the marine catch is still from traditional non-mechanized boats,
mcst of them catamarans which are made up of two or more solid, light, shaped
timbers lashed together.
2.05      Marine fisheries developed earlier on the west coast due to a wider
ccntinental shelf, more numerous fishing harbor sites and more easily exploit-
able shrimp resources which have provided the impetus for commercial coastal
fisheries development. As a result of these natural advantages, the west
coast has long had a well established export base for marine fisheries. During
the last ten years, however, the marine fish catch has grown more rapidly on
the east coast, increasing by about 150% compared to only about 50% on the
west coast.
2.06      The market for export products is sharply distinct from the local
market. Export demand for shrimp is good, prices are high with favorable
prospects for the future. Two great urban markets dominate the internal mar-
kets for fish in India; Bombay for marine fish and Calcutta for inland fish.



-3-
Bombay prices are determined daily and communicated to fish production centers
by a vast network of private traders. A wide variety of marine fish, includ-
ing crustaceans not suitable for export, are marketed for human consumption.
Because large quantities of fish are landed on the beaches by non-mechanized
fishermen, great variations in quantities, species, quality and prices are
commonplace. The sale of these products is carried out by private traders
by auction, mostly in small lots under generally poor sanitary conditions.
Public acceptance of marine fish as food is growing, but it is far less than
in other Asian countries. Frozen fish is virtually unknown to the average
local consumer but the use of ice to transport high value species of fish and
to keep them in reasonable condition at point of sale is increasing rapidly.
Non-mechanized boats do not carry ice but many use coarse salt. Curing by
salting and drying is the most common method employed for processing of the
marine fish catch for human consumption.
2.07      While India's per capita availability of fish has been increasing,
the consumer price index for fish has been rising about the same as those for
food articles and consumer goods in general. It is expected that this trend
will continue. Marketing margins for fish in Andhra Pradesh are very high
for all fish species.  The average fisherman's share of the retail price
of fish species in 1976 was only about 16% for high quality fish, and 17% for
medium and low quality fish.
Shrimp Fisheries
2.08      In the marine fisheries of India, crustaceans comprising of high
quality shrimp, lobsters and crabs are by far the most important in terms of
the value of catch. Although they form only about 12% of the landed live
weight of the marine catch, their value exceeds 60% of the total. India's
present position as first among the shrimp fishing nations of the world is
the result of the mechanization of the fishing fleet and a rapid rate of in-
frastructure development since the 1950's. Taking advantage of the buoyant
market for shrimp in Japan, United States and Europe, India has made impres-
sive progress in introducing MFVs, and investing in fish freezing and market-
ing facilities.  With a world shrimp market share of about 20%, India has
become the world's largest shrimp producer.  With the commencement of the
export trade of frozen shrimp to the USA, a rapid transformation took place
in fisheries, and established fisheries such as sardines and mackerel became
less important.  At present (1976) India exports about 48,000 tons of finished
crustacean products valued at about US$214 million per year. The catch of
crustaceans and their export have been increasing each year. Five ports in
India handle virtually all the export of frozen shrimp. Cochin and Bombay
are the most important, but Visakhapatnam is expected to handle an increasing
share of shrimp exports as larger trawlers begin to land their catches there
and as the port's volume becomes great enough to attract more frequent visits
of vessels with facilities for frozen cargo.
2.09      Shrimp is one of the most important of the high-valued marine pro-
ducts entering world trade channels. Demand for shrimp products on the world
market is strong and rising each year, especially in Japan, the United States
and Western Europe. This demand will largely have to be filled by expanding



- 4 -
imports, primarily from Asia.  India became the leading producer in 1973 fol-
lowed by the United States, Thailand, Mexico, Malysia, Japan, South Vietnam
and Taiwan.  India's landings of shrimp increased by 169,000 tons (or about
220%) between L965 and 1975, when they accounted for about 20% of the total
world output oE shrimp and prawns. Annual shrimp production from the other
major producing countries has either stabilized or slowed in growth in recent
years, and the market for Indian shrimp appears to be highly favorable.
During the ten years ending 1974, wholesale shrimp prices increased at an
average of 15% per year; the rate of increase was much sharper in the period
following 1970 than earlier. For the future, it appears reasonably certain
that shrimp prices will rise faster than foreseeable increases in Indian
production cosits.
2.10      The quality of shrimp caught in the coastal waters of India is
superior and some of the Indian frozen shrimp are among the most sought after
by the highly discriminatng Japanese market.  The way in which the shrimp are
handled in processing stages, however, leaves much scope for improvement.
Marine Fisheries of Andhra Pradesh
2.11      Andhra Pradesh has an extensive coastline 2of about 870 km and a
shelf area (up to depths of 50 m) of about 9,000 km . Although the east coast
of India has, relative to the west coast, a narrower continental shelf (averag-
ing about 40 km wide), much of it is good ground for trawling.  In the late
1950s the Exploratory Fisheries Project (EFP) of GOI headquartered in Bombay
launched systematic test fishing on the east coast to assess the commercially
trawlable resources.  An EFP base was established at Visakhapatnam in 1959 and
additional bases at Calcutta (1971) and Paradeep (1973). From 1959 to 1976,
EFP test fishing vessels conducted 39,000 hours of trawling in the general
area of east cost, with 13,500 hours of this in the project area (upper east
coast) in depths of 10 to 80 meters. The EFP data show that there are adequate
fisheries resources in the general area and indicate three major species in
the catch composition, i.e. shrimp, catfish and shark, together accounting
for 45 to 60%. The remainder consists of a myriad of miscellaneous fish. The
rapid pace of (ievelopment on the east coast indicates that continuing studies
aiLmed at monitoring changes in biological parameters should be carried out to
giLve early warning of possible over-exploitation, particularly in depth ranges
up to 50 meters.
2.12      Fishing Harbors.  Inadequacy of fishing harbors is now the most
critical constraint hindering the development of marine fisheries. There are
only two fishing harbors in Andhra Pradesh suitable for use by MFVs, Visakha-
patnam and Kakinada. Visakhapatnam is India's fifth largest commercial port
and has the only deepwater facilities along the 1,250 km of the east coast
between Paradeep (Orissa) to the north and Madras (Tamil Nadu) to the south
and functions as both commercial port and fishing harbor. It is served by the
main coastal highway and railway routes. The fishing harbor began by using
urnder-utilized parts of the commercial harbor. Subsequently, plans were drawn
ur) to construct: a fishing harbor in two stages. The first stage is well



- 5 -
underway and is expected to be completed early in 1978; a fleet of 150 9m and
10m MFVs are already using the harbor in its partially completed form. Larger
trawlers and some MFVs still operate from temporary berths in the inner
commercial harbor. At present, the facilities for handling the catch are
chaotic and high losses in the quality of fish products occur. Kakinada is
the State's other main fishing harbor and lies about 150 km southeast of
Visakhapatnam. The existing harbor consists of commercial and fishing harbor
facilities. Kakinada has a fleet of about 600 registered MFVs of which about
300 currently operate from the port. The Kakinada fleet lands an estimated
11,000 tons yearly, including about 1,300 tons of shrimp. The fishing port
basin could adequately service perhaps 75 small MFVs, but it is far too small
for the present fleet which exceeds 500 vessels during peak season resulting
in extreme crowding. The channel leading to the port is heavily congested and
hazardous for both fishing and commercial port operations. The present harbor
improvement program for Kakinada appears to be totally inadequate for the
existing needs and offers little practical scope for expansion in the future.
2.13      Other Constraints to Development.  Inadequacy of credit for purchase
of fishing vessels is also a serious constraint to commercial fisheries dev-
elopment. For efficient exploitation of the valuable shrimp resourves, many
new MFVs need to be deployed - lOm MFVs to operate on a day-return basis out
of the two fishing harbors, 9m MFVs and 12m Non-MFVs to operate from the
Nizampatnam harbor where the entrance is shallow, and 23m shrimp trawlers to
fish in the more distant waters hitherto virtually unexploited. Investments
in shrimp processing facilities are also needed to handle the incremental
catch. Moreover, lack of fishing village access roads has been seriously
hampering improvement of the productivity and livelihood of large numbers
of subsistence fishermen.
Fisheries Administration
2.14      Under the Indian Constitution, both the Union Government and States
share responsibilities for the administration and development of fisheries.
Each of the States is directly responsible for the administration and develop-
ment of fisheries within the territorial waters of the sea and of the inland
waters. The Union Government is responsible for the administration and dev-
elopment of fisheries beyond the territorial waters and for fisheries research,
although research is carried out by the State governments as well. Fisheries
administration in each of the States is generally the responsibility of a
Department of Fisheries.
2.15      Government of India.  The Department of Agriculture, under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, has overall responsibility for the
formulation of national policies and programs for fisheries and fishing
harbor development, processing and preservation of fish, fisheries education
and training, fish trade, etc. It assists State Governments in formulating
policy, plans and projects, and setting up fisheries corporations, and offers
technical advice and guidance when required. It has jurisdiction over the
following major institutions: (i) Exploratory Fisheries Project (EFP);
(ii) Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI); (iii) Central
Institute of Fishery Technology (CIFC); and, (iv) UNDP/FAO Pelagic Fisheries



- 6 -
Project. The geographic center of fisheries research is Cochin, where head-
quarters of al:L but EFP are located. The Marine Products Export Development
Authority (MPE])A), also located in Cochin, under the Ministry of Commerce,
pl]ays a vital role in the development of marine products for export, mainly
shrimp.
2.16      Government of Andhra Pradesh.  The Department of Fisheries of Andhra
Pradesh (APFD) is under the administrative control of the Secretary to the
Government for the Forests and Rural Development Department. APFD is headed
by a Director of Fisheries who reports directly to the Secretary, Forests and
Rural Development (Charts 18390 and 18391). APFD headquarters is in Hyderabad,
the capital of Andhra Pradesh. It is responsible for fisheries administration
and fisheries cooperative societies, provides assistance to village develop-
ment officers by means of the village panchayati raj 1/ system (Chart 18392),
operates demonstration projects in fish farming, provides inland fisheries
extension and a variety of other fisheries services. With a staff of 50 pro-
fessional fisheries officials, APFD is well administered and staffed by able
people. Except for the GOI operated port at Visakhapatnam, all fishing harbors
in Andhra Pradesh are operated and maintained by the State Ports Department.
2 17      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation.  The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries
Corporation (A]?FC) was established in 1974 to encourage commercial fisheries
development in the State, particularly for marine fisheries. Only six private
companies have freezing and frozen storage capacity, and several of these,
accounting for most of the capacity, are vertically integrated and process
primarily their own catch. APFC thus provides a needed ready market for
smaller fishermen and small vessel operators.  APFC's registered headquarters
are in Kakinada, where most of its major business transactions occur, while
the Managing Director in Visakhapatnam oversees company operations and day-to-
day procurement and marketing. At present, APFC's major interests and activi-
ties include boat building, shrimp freezing and processing plants, ice and
cold storage plants, a 21-vessel fishing fleet, fuel and lubricants depots,
fishing gear and net making unit, canning plant, internal fish marketing, and
shrimp exporting.  The APFC-owned Kakinada Boat Building Yard (KBBY) is easily
the largest boat builder in Andhra Pradesh, and has produced most of the
State's existing MFV fleet.  APFC currently has a total of over 500 employees,
with the largest units being boat building yard and the Visakhapatnam ice and
freezing plant, which together account for about 70% of APFC employment. The
quality of present management personnel is high, and in 1976/77 APFC made a
profit of Rs 110,000 compared to substantial losses in the previous two years
(Aknnex 1).
2.18      Government Programs to Assist Small Fishermen.  The GOI-sponsored
Small Farmers ])evelopment Agency (SFDA) has programs to assist both small
commercial fishermen and subsistence village fishermen. In cooperation with
commercial banks, SFDA provides loans to small fishermen for part of the down-
payment required to purchase MFVs, and also provides a subsidy to assist vil-
lage subsistence fishermen in obtaining bank loans for gear and country fish-
ing boats. The GOAP Backward Class Cooperative Finance Corporation (BCC)
1l/ Literally, village council rule or government; in practice, it refers to
the community or rural development program in Andhra Pradesh.



-7-
provides down-payment loans at subsidized interest rates to enable small
fishermen to obtain loans to purchase gear and vessels including MFVs, while
the GOAP Industries Department provides similar assistance to educated but
unemployed individuals.
Status of the Gujarat Fisheries Project
2.19      The Gujarat Fisheries Project (Cr. 695-IN, Ln. 1394-IN), the first
Bank-group financed marine fisheries project for India, became effective on
July 19, 1977. This Loan/Credit provides US$18.0 million for marine fisheries
development to be implemented by the Government of Gujarat and includes finance
for (i) improvement of the State's two leading fishing harbors (Mangrol and
Veraval) and provision of basic infrastructure for 8 fishing villages, (ii)
credit through participating banks with ARDC refinancing to fishermen, cooper-
atives and private entrepreneurs for outboard motors, mechanized canoes, MFVs,
ice and cold storage plants, processing facilities and net making equipment,
and (iii) technical assistance for test fishing operations off the coasts of
Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, fish marketing studies and consultants for project
implementation. Progress in project implementation was slow but is accelerat-
ing. Draft tender documents for the Veraval Harbor were reviewed and found
to be adequate and tenders have been invited.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Major Features
3.01      The main objectives of the project would be:  (i) to increase marine
fisheries production in Andhra Pradesh by improving three important fishing
harbors in the State and providing credit for acquisition of fishing vessels,
both mechanized and non-mechanized, to be owned and operated by private
individuals, companies, and cooperatives, and for seafood plants for the
state-owned Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation (APFC) and (ii) to improve
productivity of small fishermen by constructing access roads to a large number
of fishing villages scattered along the coast of the three marine fisheries
districts.
3.02      Major features of the project would be:  (i) improvement of three
harbors, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam (shown in Map 13248);
(ii) construction of a coastal fishing village access roads in Visakhapatnam,
East Godavari and Guntur Districts where the project harbors are located;
(iii) credit for 360 MFVs and 60 non-MFVs; (iv) credit for seafood processing
facilities at two harbors; and (v) technical assistance providing a specialist
in esturarial river training works and a naval architect as consultants, a
program of overseas study tours, and construction of two experimental 23m
wooden hull shrimp trawlers.



-8-
Harbor Improvement 1/
3.03      Visakhapatnam.  The project investments would be designed to remedy
the iaadequacy of the harbor in servicing the present and future fishing fleet.
The present fishing harbor was built in conjunction with expansion of the
breakwaters for the large commercial port at Visakahapatnam, and lies just
outside the entrance to the main harbor in the lee of the new breakwater. The
tidal range at spring and neap tides is 1.40 m and 0.55 m, respectively. The
harbor was originally designed to be constructed in two stages, with Stage I
to handle 150 10m MFVs and 15 23m trawlers, and Stage II to handle 250 10m
MFVs and 30 trawlers. Construction began on Stage I in early 1976, and in-
cludes a 510 m long marginal quay, slipway and repair facilities, buildings
and services, and land reclamation. Stage I is generally complete except for
work on the slipway, and final completion is expected in 1978. Stage I was
expected to be sufficient for ten years, but a fleet of some 150 lm MFVs is
already using the fishing harbor as a base, while 50 lm MFVs and 22 larger
shrimp trawlers are operating from the Visakhapatnam inner commercial harbor.
The GOAP Fisheries Department anticipates a fleet of about 56 Large shrimp
trawlers and 300 MFVs by late 1979. Layout and facilities existing and to be
financed under the project would be sufficient to serve a fleet of about 300 m
MFVs and 56 trawlers, and would be well suited to expansion if justified by
future fleet growth. Most of the engineering data collection and studies
needed for the fishing harbor were done earlier in connection with the expan-
sion of the commercial harbor. Facilities to be provided would include addi-
tional quay length and four berthing jetties totalling 1115 m length; expanded
slipway facilities to be operated by VPT with repair jetty and crawler crane;
buildings including auction hall expansion, fishermen's gear sheds, and toilet
blocks; completion of roads, drains and culverts; additional electrical and
water distribution systems; land acquisition (not financed by IDA); and dredg-
ing of slipway and repair berth area (Map 13252).
3.04      Kakinada.  The project investments would be designed to relocate and
expand the harbor capacity. The present Kakinada fishing harbor is about 6 km
from the sea on the commercial canal which extends to the center of Kakinada
city. The entrance to the commercial canal is sheltered by a large natural
breakwater known as Godavari point which almost encircles Kakinada Bay. The
tidal range in the area is 1.34 m at mean spring tide, and the mean low water
spring tide level is 0.2 m above chart datum. The present fishing harbor is
located on the south side of the commercial canal in a densely developed area
close to the center of the city. The harbor basin is 180 m long but only 22 m
wide, and can adequately accommodate about 75 1lm MFVs at the most. The
number of 10m MFVs registered at Kakinada in 1977 totalled 610, compared to
abouat 50 in 1968, and is expected to grow by about 150 MFVs per year; it is
estimated that pierhaps 300 10m MFVs now operate from this port regularly.
These large numbers result in heavy congestion of fishing port facilities, as
well as extreme hazards in the commercial canal.  Under the project, the
Kakinada Fishing Harbor would be relocated behind a breakwater and spur to be
built about 2 km north of the present canal entrance, and about 8 km from the
present fishing harbor. This harbor and breakwater would reduce congestion in
17   For further details see project file (India, Andhra Pradesh Fisheries
Project, Appraisal Mission - Mission Consultant's Report on Harbors).



-9-
the commercial canal, provide adequate accommodation for the existing and
anticipated fleet of 10m MFVs as well as accommodation for some large trawlers,
reduce vessel steaming time to reach fishing grounds and provide protection
for commercial barges. The facility would be easily expandable if needed as
fleet size grows.  The harbor would be planned to accommodate abou._ 410 lOm
MFVs and 15 large shrimp trawlers. Basic engineering data to determine the
technical feasibility of the breakwater facilities have been developed for
earlier, similar proposals, but further studies for the project as now proposed
is necessary to determine the optimum length of the breakwater spur, soil
conditions at the breakwater and jetty sites more precisely, optimum size and
quantity of breakwater armour, and filter layer requirements. The facilities
would include a breakwater, about 880 m long, plus a 200 m right angle spur at
the end of the breakwater; MFV landing jetty 150 m long; MFV outfitting and
berthing jetty 150 m long; 2 MFV berthing jetties each 185 m long; shrimp
trawler landing, fitting, outfitting and berthing jetty with dredged depth to
4.0 m minimum; two auction halls on the jetties; basin and approach channel
dredging to 4.0 m minimum water depth for the 23 m trawler facilities; boat
repair facility; buildings including administration building, toilet block,
and canteen; roads and drainage; and services including power and light, water
and fuel points (Map 13253).
3.05      Nizampatnam.  The project investments would be designed to upgrade
the harbor facilities. South of Kakinada, no fishing harbors with full facil-
ities for regular use by MFVs exist. To intensify mechanized fishing activi-
ties in this area, the project would include harbor development at Nizampatnam.
Currently no road connections or facilities for fish landing, handling or
transport exist at the harbor site which would be situated on a large irriga-
tion drainage canal about 1 km from the canal mouth and about 6 km from
Nizampatnam village. Harbor design and siting are based on FAO-assisted
engineering surveys and studies which are adequate to indicate the technical
feasibility of the facilities proposed. The estimated tidal range is 1.36 m
for Mean High Water Spring Tides and 0.30 m for mean low water spring tides.
The harbor entrance (canal mouth) would be partly protected log piling train-
ing walls, which are currently under construction by the Department of Trans-
port, Buildings and Roads. The Irrigation Department controls the flow of
canal water and has participated in the early stages of training wall devel-
opment to improve drainage and decrease canal siltation. At present the
harbor is used by about 115 sailing vessels which stay out for four or five
days at a time. When weather conditions are good, about 25 9m MFVs use the
harbor and berth there at night. Under the project, facilities would be
provided to serve an additional 60 9m MFVs and 60 12m non-MFVs. Facilities to
be provided would include a harbor basin 215 m long and 30 m wide dredged to
about 2.0 m minimum water depth; revetments; a landing, outfitting and berthing
quay of 190 m length; a boat ramp; an auction hall; 1.2 ha of harbor working
area; an administration building and toilet block; a harbor approach road of
3 km length; fuel and marine facilities including a workboat and lighthouse,
transit lights, and a maintenance workshop with equipment; drainage; and
services including water supply, electricity, and lighting. Early provision
of the 3 km harbor approach road across a mangrove swamp would be a key
component of the project, as would be the basic services such as water and
electricity and adequate living quarters for relevant port and fisheries staff
at the harbor or in Nizampatnam village, as required for close supervision of



- 10 -
the project. Improvement of the harbor entrance through construction of
training walls, which is currently under way, is not included in the project.
Depth at the harbor entrance is currently sufficient for general use by
Non-MFVs, but can generally be used only during high tide by 9m MFVs which
have a draft of about 1.0 m. Completion of the training walls is expected to
stabilize the alignment of the entrance channel, and may also increase its
depth, although probably only marginally. The harbor has therefore been
designed assuming the minimum entrance channel depth remains at about the 1.0
meter level prevailing naturally. Based on available tidal and survey data,
project 9m MFVs may not be able to use the entrance during low tide, or under
adverse weather conditions with waves of one meter or more during the period
from February to May when the lowest tides occur. However, about 25 9m MFVs
are already successfully operating at Nizampatnam under an APFD pilot scheme
started in 1976, and a somewhat larger fleet of 9m MFVs has reportedly been
successfully using the slightly shallower harbor entrance at Machilipatnam
about 70 km to the north. Especially since no other more favorable sites
exist in the area, the harbor investment is considered justified. At nego-
tiations, assurances would be sought that GOAP would include the harbor
entrance at Nizampatnam within the seaward limits of the port under the
jurisdiction of SPD, and make their best efforts to ensure that dredging of
the entrance channel would be undertaken if needed to maintain a minimum water
depth in the entrance of at least 1.0 meter (Map 13254).
Village Access Roads and Nizampatnam Water Supply
3.06      Village Roads.  The project would provide for improvement and con-
struction of about 215 km of village access roads, nearly 75% of which would
be new. The roads would be located in the districts of Visakhapatnam, East
Godavari and Guntur where the project harbors of Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and
Nizampatnam are located, and would serve a total of about 100 coastal fishing
villages and landing centers benefitting directly about 75,000 people of
coastal fishing families. Details of the proposed roads are given in Annex 3,
Table 6.
3.07      Lack of access roads has been the overriding factor hampering improve-
inent of the productivity and livelihood of subsistence fishermen. Because of
poor communications, the marketing of catch has been possible only on an ex-
tremely haphazard basis. Many fishing villages are accessible only on foot
and transport of catch is often by head basket which is slow and costly. As
a result, relatively low prices are paid to village fishermen and very often
:hey are at the mercy of the merchant--money lenders who are both their only
source of finance and the only market outlet. Similarly, supporting services
such as extension, banking and cooperatives cannot physically be extended to
many of the fishing villages, and existing programs serving traditional fisher-
rmen under the Fisheries Department, the Small Farmer Development Agency and
t:he Andhra Pradesh, Backward Class Corporation, for example, are at present
relatively ineffective in reaching fishermen in isolated villages. Avail-
ability of social services such as education and medical assistance is simi-
].arly constraiined and thus very limited.
3.08      Under these circumstances, an essential prerequisite and perhaps the
most important: thing that can be done at this stage to help these small fisher-



- 11. -
men would be to provide access roads necessary for improving the marketing of
catch and making the provision of extension, credit, cooperatives and other
services more effective. Road construction and improvement would include ade-
quate design, base-formation, metalling, and black topping. Width of the roads
would be about 4.5 m of blacktop on a 7.5 m width over the shoulders. The work
would be executed by local contractors selected through local competitive bid-
ding, and administered by the Panchayeti Raj Department through its local dis-
trict executive engineers. Maintenance of rural roads is generally adequate
at present, and maintenance of access roads for the project would be the
responsibility of the District Collector's Office. (Maps 13250, 13251, and
13249).
3.09      Water Supply at Nizampatnam Village.  The project would also finance
a water supply system at Nizampatnam which has a population of about 15,000.
Obtaining adequate supplies of potable water is currently very difficult in
the village and is essential for the Nizampatnam harbor development. Under
the project, two existing water tanks in the village would be deepened and
renovated, and a new overhead tank constructed. Pumping equipment and piping
to bring water from a nearby irrigation canal would be installed, along with
a water distribution system for the village. Execution of works would be on
the same basis as the village access roads.
Credit for Fishing Vessels
3.10      The project would provide credit through participating banks (PBs),
whose loans would be refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC), and go to eligible individuals, cooperatives and companies
for purchase of project fishing vessels. Fishing vessels financed under the
project would comprise 300 10m MFVs, 60 9m MFVs and 60 12m sailing craft called
Kathapalem Navas (Non-MFVs). Some of the MFVs and Non-MFVs would be coopera-
tively owned. Most of the existing fleet is owned individually, and the pro-
portion of vessels which would be financed cooperatively under the project is
uncertain but assumed to be about half. Since it is by far the State's largest
boat builder with proven capabilities to produce project MFVs, the APFC
Kakinada Boat Building Yard (KBBY) would probably build most of the project
MFVs, although independent boat builders could build project MFVs using KBBY
designs. All vessels would be equipped with navigation instruments, life-
saving devices such as life vests and ring bouys and suitable fire extin-
guishers, and would have radio equipment for monitoring weather forecasts.
Safety measures would be particularly important at Nizampatnam, where the
shallow harbor entrance may be hazardous under adverse weather conditions.
3.11      10m MFVs.  A total of 300 10m MFVs -- 150 at Visakhapatnam and 150
at Kakinada -- would be financed for purchase by individuals, private companies
and cooperative groups. These would be equipped with an air or water-cooled
marine diesel engine of about 60 hp. Equipped for shrimp trawling and gill-
netting, and carrying a crew of five and ice for cooling, the vessels would be
intended primarily for one-day fishing trips with a range to fishing grounds
of about 50 kilometers. Most project 10m MFVs probably would be built by KBBY
which does good work.



- 12 -
3.12      9m MFVs.  For deployment at Nizampatnam, 60 9m MFVs (Pablo boats)
would be financed for purchase by individuals, private companies or coopera-
tive groups. With a draft of only about 1.0 m, these are the only local,
currently available proven design of MFV capable of regular use of the shallow
Nizampatnam harbor entrance, yet large enough for trawling at sea during most
of the year. These vessels would have an air or water cooled marine diesel
engine of about 50 horsepower, and would be equipped for shrimp trawling and
gill netting, with a range to fishing grounds of about 40 kilometers. Carry-
ing a crew of about five, they would be intended primarily for one-day fishing
trips. The vessels would cost about Rs 108,500 each be built of teakwood by
local boat builders or KBBY (Figure 18181).
3.13      12m Non-MFVs.  An additional 60 non-mechanized 12m sailing craft
(Kothapalam Navas) for deployment at the Nizampatnam harbor would be financed
for purchase by individuals or cooperative groups. Costing about Rs 36,000
each and built entirely of teakwood by local artisans, they would be equipped
for gill netting. Owned privately or by cooperatives, they would have a crew
of four or five with a fishhold of about five tons capacity and be able to
stay out for four or five days each trip using salt for fish preservation.
With their shallow draft of only about 0.6 m, they are well suited for regular
use of the Nizampatnam harbor entrance (Figure 18183).
23m Shrimp Trawlers
3.14      Although 23m shrimp trawlers are not financed under the project,
facilities would be included for 30 additional trawlers at Visakhapatnam and
15 trawlers at Kakinada. These trawlers would be generally owned by indivi-
dual entrepreneurs, private companies and fairly large corporations. They
are financed both privately and through existing GOI programs, including the
Shipping Development Fund, which helps arrange trawler financing on conces-
sionary terms and provides an interest subsidy. GOI has indicated that bud-
get provisions for trawler financing have been made, and that when required
the necessary funds will be made available and arrangements will be made for
financing and importing shrimp trawlers that would use project facilities.
The trawlers have steel hulls and are fully equipped with a 380 to 500 horse-
power marine diesel engine and fishing gear, and cost an estimated Rs 4.5
million each. Carrying a crew of fifteen and equipped primarily for trawling,
they are capable of staying out for several weeks at a time, with onboard
freezing equipment. Since no Indian boatyards build this type of vessel on
a regular basis at present, most such trawlers have been imported from exper-
ienced, reputable boat yards producing vessels of proven design (Figure
13182).
Credit for Seafood Plants
3.15      At tlne new Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam fishing harbors seafood
processing plants to be owned and operated by APFC would be constructed under
the project, with capacities indicated below:



- 13 -
Equipment            Visakhapatnam Plant       Nizampatnam Plant
Ice making               80 tons/day             25 tons/day
Ice storage             100 tons/day             25 tons
Freezing                  23 tons/day              1.5 tons/day
Cold storage             100 tons                25 tons
Frozen storage          600 tons                 20 tons
Insulated trucks           3 tons                 1
No seafood processing capacity for Kakinada is planned under this project.
Existing capacities there are expected to be adequate to accommodate present
landings and future increment, and APFC opened a new 4 ton/day freezing plant
at Kakinada in July 1977.
3.16      The processing plants capacity would be adequate to supply enough
ice to meet estimated full development needs for fishing vessels operating
from the project harbors; the processing and overnight storage of shrimp; and
packing fish for transport to internal markets. Liberal use of ice would be
essential to minimize the quality deterioration of fresh fish and shrimp.
3.17      At Visakhapatnam, existing seafood processing facilities are capable
of handling present fish landings. The project seafood processing plant would
be designed to process mainly future fish and shrimp landings made by the 150
lOm MFVs to be deployed under the project and the 30 23m trawlers for which
harbor facilities are provided, which are expected to account for the bulk of
fleet growth during the project period. At full development, the project-
financed Visakhapatnam plant would handle an estimated total of 5,000 tons of
shrimp annually -- 4,000 tons from 150 project vessels and 30 trawlers, and
1,000 tons from fishing villages nearby. The plant would have a 600 ton
storage capacity and would store for export the products from the APFC plants
in Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam, and would also have a shrimp grader
for uniform grading of shrimp which is required by foreign markets. The frozen
shrimp landings of the 23m trawlers at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada would be
stored temporarily directly after landing and later be processed during the
lean period for the plant, which would help alleviate the problem of fluctuat-
ing raw material supplies for processing plants (Chart 18229).
3.18      At Nizampatnam, there is currently no seafood processing facility,
and the project-financed plant would process shrimp landings from both the
existing 25 9m MFVs and the 60 9m MFVs to be financed under the project. The
Nizampatnam plant would handle an estimated total of 340 tons of shrimp per
year for processing. Frozen storage capacity of the Nizampatnam plant would
be relatively small since it is assumed that the frozen products would be
rapidly transported to Visakhapatnam for export or storage (Chart 18228).
3.19      Plant, machinery and equipment used in the seafood plants would be
conventional and of a type produced in India and used in existing plants.
The only equipment not manufactured domestically is the shrimp grader for
Visakhapatnam. In designing, selecting and installing equipment and insula-
tion, special attention would be paid to the need for maintenance of tempe-
ratures and hygienic standards required for seafood to meet export markets
standards. Construction and operation of the plants would be the responsi-
bility of APFC, which would own them.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
3.20      Technical assistance would include an esturial river training spe-
cialist for 3 man-months, a naval architect for 6 man-months, overseas study-
tolars of about 60 days each for 10 people involved in project management, and
construction of two experimental 23m wooden hull trawlers. The main purpose
of the specialist would be to assist in further study, design and construction
of the training walls at the Nizampatnam harbor entrance. The naval architect
would assist KBBY with the design and development of the two wooden hull
trawlers. The overseas study tours would be particularly to help APFC manage-
ment and fisheries officials learn more about modern shrimp quality control
and marketing. The construction of the two wooden hull 23m trawlers would be
undertaken experimentally by KBBY. It is estimated that their costs may be
about 30% less than steel hull vessels of a similar size which currently are
being imported, and development of indigenous wooden hull trawler construction
capability could result in significant savings in investment costs and foreign
exchange. Terms of reference and selection of the specialist and the naval
architect would require IDA approval, as would selection of individuals chosen
for overseas study tours.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT, AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project cost, including duties and taxes, is estimated at
Rs 313.6 million (US$36.5 million). Detailed cost estimates, including duties
and taxes estimated at Rs 10.1 million (US$1.2 million), are given in Annex 3
and summarized below:



- 15 -
Rs million             US$ million        % of
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Total
Harbor Development
Visakhapatnam               56.2      -      56.2      6.5     -       6.5   18
Kakinada                    53.0      -      53.0      6.2      -      6.2   17
Nizampatnam                  7.0      -       6.9      0.8     -       0.8    2
Sub-total             116.2     -    116.2    13.5        -      13.5   37
Village Roads
and Water Supply
Visakhapatnam District      12.3      -      12.3      1.4     -       1.4    4
East Godavari District       9.0      -       9.0      1.0      -      1.0    3
Guntur District              9.3      -       9.3      1.1      -      1.1    3
Nizampatnam Water Supply   0.5        -       0.5      0.1     -       0.1    - /a
Sub-total              31.1      -     31.1      3.6      -       3.6   10
Fishing Vessels
10m MFVs            (300)  50.7       -      50.7      5.9     -       5.9   16
9m MFVs               (60)   6.5      -       6.5      0.8     -       0.8    2
12m Non-MFVs          (60)   2.2      -       2.2     0.3      -       0.3    1 /a
Sub-total              59.4            59.4      6.9      -       6.9   19
Seafood Processing
Facilities
Visakhapatnam                8.2      -       8.2      1.0      -      1.0    3
Nizampatnam                  1.7      - /a   1.7       0.2      -  /a  0.2    - /a
Sub-total                9.8      - /a   9.8      1.1      -  /a  1.2    3
Technical Assistance
River Training
Specialist (3 m/mo)/b       0.2      -       0.2       - /a   -        - /a  - /a
Naval Architect (6 mlmo)/b  -        0.5      0.5       -      0.1     0.1    - Ta
Overseas Study Tour (10)    -        0.9      0.9       -     0.1      0.1    - 7
Wooden Hull Trawlers (2)  10.2        -      10.0      1.2      -      1.2    3
Sub-total              10.2    1.4    11.6       1.2    0.2       1.4    4
Base Cost Estimate         226.7    1.4   228.1    26.4    0.2    26.5   73
Physical Contingencies /c 18.9        -      18.9      2.2      -      2.2    6
(7.7%)
Expected Price Increase   66.6        -      66.6      7.7      -      7.7   21
Total Expected Cost
Project                  312.2    1.4   313.6    36.3    0.2    36.5  100
/a   Less than 0.5.
/b   US$8,025 per month for the river training specialist, and US$9,690 for
the naval architect. The latter is higher because the naval architect
would visit the project area intermittently.
Ic   15% for harbor works, 10% for fishing village feeder roads, and 5% for
Nizampatnam water supply works.
4.02       The estimates are based on September 1977 prices.  Physical contin-
gency rates appropriate to the civil works components (15% for harbor works,
10% for village access roads, and 5% for Nizampatnam water supply works)
have been applied. Annual expected price increase rates used in estimating



- 16 -
total costs were 8% for civil works, 7% for local equipment during the project
period, and 7.5% in 1978 and 1979 and 7% thereafter for foreign equipment.
Expected price increases total about 21% of estimated base cost with physical
contingencies.
Financing
4.03       Estimated shares in the financing of project costs are as follows:
Borrowers /a   PBs    ARDC   GOI/GOAP   Total          IDA
--------------------Rs million-----------------------
Fishing Harbors                -            -       -        167.0      167.0    84.2
Village Roads                 -             -       -        42.3        42.3    21.3
Fishing Vessels
Cooperative /a             8.0           6.4    11.6       14.1       40.2    14.1
Private                    6.0           6.8    12.3       15.0       40.2    15.0
APFC Seafood Plants          2.5           2.0      3.5        4.3       12.3      4.3
Technical Assistance          -             -       -         11.6       11.6    11.6
Total            16.5          15.2    27.4       254.3      313.6   150.5
(5.3%)       (4.9%)  (8.7%)   (81.1%)  (100.0%) (48.0%)
/a   Cooperative group borrowers' contribution includes GOAP loans, intended
to help small fishermen meet the requirements of PBs for borrower con-
tributions, equivalent to 15% of the investment cost with terms and
conditions similar to those for PB loans.
4.04       The proposed IDA credit of US$17.5 million would finance about 50%
of the estimated total project cost net of duties and taxes. The credit would
,-over the estimated direct foreign exchange costs of US$163,000 and about 50%
of local costs.
4.05       It is proposed that at Kakinada the project would include up to
IJS$0.5 million of retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred
after February 28, 1978 on civil works and engineering. Congestion in the
existing harbor is acute and hazardous, and the harbor improvement program
should not be delayed.
]?roject Implementation
4.06       The project would be implemented over a period of five years from
]L978 through 1983, as shown in Chart 18367. Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam
harbors, village access roads and the seafood processing facilities would be
completed by or during 1982, while Kakinada harbor would become operational
by 1982. Deployment of project vessels would be spread over the full five year
project period. Technical assistance provided by the naval architect intermit-
tently before and during construction of the wooden hull trawlers, which would



- 17 -
be completed by 1982. The study tour would be completed in 1979. The river
training specialist would begin work in 1979 and provide periodic consulta-
tions in 1980 and 1981 while Nizampatnam harbor is under construction.
Lending Terms and Conditions
4.07      Subvention.  IDA funds for harbor works (US$9.8 million), fishing
village access road construction and improvement (US$2.4 million), and tech-
nical assistance (US$1.4 million), would be provided by GOI to GOAP, together
with GOI's contribution out of its own resources, in accordance with estab-
lished GOI procedures for development assistance to GOAP.
4.08      Subloans under Credit Program.  IDA funds for subloans for fishing
vessels (US$3.4 million) and APFC's seafood processing plants (US$0.5 million)
would be on-lent by GOI to ARDC. Details of credit arrangements would be
generally consistent with those applicable to other Bank/IDA financed credit
projects administered by ARDC and would include, among others, qualifying
conditions for banks to operate as project Participating Banks (PBs), the
requirement that APFC, PBs and ARDC maintain separate accounts for the project,
insurance arrangements, debt rescheduling procedures, and ARDC's obligation to
ensure that financial commitments for APFC's seafood processing facilities are
made only after IDA is satisfied with respect to tender procedures and recom-
mendations for award of contract.
4.09      The contributions required from different categories of borrowers
for various investment activities, the fractions to be refinanced, and annual
interest rates chargeable would be in accordance with the following schedule:
Fishing          Fishing          APFC
Vessels          Vessels         Seafood
(Cooperatives)   (Pvt. Entities)    Plants
Contribution
Borrower
Contribution (min)                  5%               15%             20%
GOAP Loan       (max)                15%                -               -
PB Subloan      (max)                80%               85%             80%
ARDC Refinance               ---------80% of each subloan of PBs--------
GOI Contribution             ---------55% of ARDC's refinance-----------
IDA Disbursement             ---------55% of ARDC's refinance-----------
Annual Interest Rates
PB Loans                     ---------11.0% minimum---------------------
GOAP Loans                   ---------11.0% minimum---------------------
ARDC Refinance               --------- 8.0% minimum---------------------
GOI Loan to ARDC             --------- 6.75%-7.25% with exchange risk borne
by GOI
IDA to GOI                   ----------standard-------------------------



- 18 -
4.10      Maximum terms of PB loans including maximum periods of grace would
be in accordance with the following schedule, and PB repayments to ARDC would
be scheduled to coincide with agreed schedule of collections from ultimate
borrowers. ARDC would repay GOI loans at the end of ten years.
Maximum Term         Maximum
for PB Loans          Grace
Including Grace        Period
---------in years------------
lOm MFVs                         8                   1
9m MFVs                          8                   1
12m Non-MFVs                     6                 1/2
APFC Seafood Plants              10                  1
Procurement
4.11      Har'bor Works.  Except for minor contracts for ancillary facilities
and dredging work, contracts for harbor works at Visakhapatnam (US$6.5 million)
and Kakinada (US$6.2 million) would be awarded through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, including IDA clearance of
tender documents and award of contracts, and administered by the Visakhapatnam
Port Trust (V]PT) under GOI and the Department of Ports of GOAP, respectively.
EHarbor works at Nizampatnam would be relatively small (US$0.8 million), and it
is most unlikely that foreign firms would be interested in so small a contract
located in such a remote area. The contract for this work, therefore, would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA, and administered by the GOAP Department of Ports.
Dredging work would be carried out on force account by VPT at Viskhapatnam, by
Lhe Ports Department (GOAP) at Kakinada and by the Irrigation Department at
Nizampatnam. Minor contracts for ancillaries would be awarded through local
competitive bidding satisfactory to IDA. The crawler crane and its accessories
required for 1-he Viskahapatnam harbor slipway would cost about Rs 1.7 million
(US$198,000) and be procured through local competitive bidding.
4.12      VilLage Access Roads and Water Supply.  As the sites are numerous
(over 20) and widely scattered and the value of work at each site is expected
to be small (on average about US$250,000), contracts for village access road
works (US$3.5 million in total) and the village water supply work (US$0.1 mil-
Lion) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding satisfactory to
IDA according to local practices and administered by the Executive Engineer
attached to the District Collector's Office concerned.
4.13      Fishing Vessels.  All project fishing vessels (US$6.9 million for 420
vessels of three standard designs) would be built by KBBY and independent boat
builders using KBBY designs, and purchased by sub-borrowers (individuals,
cooperatives and business firms) through ordinary commercial channels. The
current practice wherein the purchaser of vessel is permitted to indicate
preference for specific make of engine, gear and outfit appears to be sound
and practical. The cost of each vessel is relatively small (about US$20,000



- 19 -
per lOm MFV, US$12,000 per 9m MFV, and US$4,000 per Non-MFV), and bulking
would serve no useful purpose. The two trial wooden hull trawlers would be
constructed by the APFC-owned KBBY, and APFC would be paid the actual con-
struction costs.
4.14      Seafood Processing Plants.  Civil works for the seafood processing
'7lants to be owned and operated by APFC at Visakhapatnam (US$216,000) and
Nizampatnam (US$33,000) would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding because the contracts would be very small. They would therefore be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding administered by APFC. Equip-
ment for the plants (US$675,000 and US$140,000, respectively) would be bulked
to the extent possible and procured by APFC on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, including IDA clearance
of tender documents and award of contracts, if the estimated cost involved is
US$200,000 or more, and through local competitive bidding satisfactory to IDA
if it is less than US$200,000 but US$50,000 or more. Equipment costing less
than US$50,000 would be procured by APFC on the basis of quotations received
from interested suppliers with due regard for economy and efficiency.
4.15      Preference for Domestic Contractors.  Domestic contractors would
receive a preference of 7.5% for civil works, and the usual preferential
margin equal to either 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the
existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower, for equipment.
Disbursement
4.16      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be in accordance with the
following schedule:
(i) 50% (about US$9.8 million) of expenditures on project
harbor works at Visakhaptnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam,
including works awarded under ICB, totalling about
US$19.4 million;
(ii)  50% (about US$2.4 million) of expenditures on project village
access roads and Nizampatnam water supply totaling about
US$4.9 million;
(iii) 55% (about US$3.9 million) of ARDC disbursements of about
US$7.1 million for 80% refinancing of loans (about US$8.7
million) provided by participating banks to finance project
fishing vessels and seafood processing facilities including
insulated trucks with a total estimated cost of about US$10.8
million; and
(iv)  100% (US$1.4 million) of expenditures on technical assistance
(consultants, study tours and wooden hull pilot trawlers).
4.17      Disbursements under (i), (ii) and (iv) would be made against appro-
priate documentation and would not be made against any land costs, and those
under (iii) would be against ARDC certified statements of loans made by PBs
and refinanced by ARDC. Documents relating to (iii) would not be submitted



- 20 -
to IDA for review, but would be retained by ARDC and be available for inspec-
tion by IDA during project supervision. A quarterly schedule of estimated
disbursements is given in Annex 6.
Accounts and Audit
4.18      Separate accounts would be maintained for all project expenditures
by all entities involved in project implementation. Accounts for activities
listed under (i), (ii) and (iii) of para. 4.16 would be subject to standard
government control and auditing procedures, which are satisfactory.  For
accounts under (iii), special audit requirements would not be necessary because
audited ARDC accounts are sent to IDA/Bank each year as a requirement of on-
going IDA/ Bank projects and ARDC requires participating banks to maintain
separate accounts for each approved subloan and to have these accounts audited.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above arrangements would
be employed. Assurances were also obtained that APFC would maintain separate
audited accounts for project components, and that these audited accounts
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year
(June-July).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Coordination and Implementation
5.01      Project Coordinating Committee.  Except for the Visakhapatnam harbor
work which would be executed by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (a Central Govern-
ment agency), all project components other than the provision of credit would
be executed byr GOAP. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be estab-
lished, in which the lead agency would be the GOAP Department of Fisheries.
P'CC would be chaired by the Secretary of the Department of Forests and Rural
Development. The Director of Fisheries would be the PCC secretary and would
f'unction as a project coordinator. Membership would include the following
cifficials, the Secretary for the Ministry of Finance or his representative
the Director of State Ports, the Managing Director of the Andhra Pradesh
F'isheries Corporation, the Chief Engineer of the Roads and Buildings Department,
the Chief Engineer of the Panchayeti Raj Department and the Regional Director
of ARDC. PCC would be empowered to obtain the services of other state offi-
cials as necessary, for example, the Directors of the Cooperative Department,
Small Farmer Development Agency, and the Industries Department and the Chief
Engineers for the Department of Public Health and the Electricity Board. PCC
would be responsible for organizing execution of the project and would do this
by delegating responsibilities to appropriate state agencies, including the
Department of Fisheries. For example, the State Ports Department would be
responsible for the construction of harbor improvements at Kakinada and
Nizampatnam. A condition of effectiveness of the Credit would be that the
PCC had been established with a chairman and secretary as indicated above.
5.02      GOI Central Coordinating Committee.  The Central Coordinating Com-
mittee established under the Gujarat Fisheries Project (Cr. 695-IN) would be
expanded to include representation from Andhra Pradesh, and would provide
policy guidance and work coordination for the project.



- 21 -
5.03      District Subcommittees.  District Subcommittees (DS) of the PCC
would be formed for each of the project districts of Visakhapatnam, East
Godavari and Guntur to coordinate activities of the implementing agencies at
the field level. The subcommittees would coordinate with the District admin-
istration as necessary, particularly for the village access road construction.
5.04      GOAP Department of Fisheries.  To enable it to carry out its func-
tion under the project, the Department of Fisheries (APFD) would form a new
division for the project and set up a Fisheries Terminal Organization (FTO) for
each of the three harbor sites which would function as the APFD field offices
to supervise project execution and administer the fisheries facilities when
completed. A Catch Monitoring Unit (CMU) would be established in APFD with
direct technical links to the State statistical organization. CMU would
collect and analyze data for each major category of vessels (23m trawlers and
9m and lOm MFVs) on (i) species composition of catch; (ii) size-frequency
distribution of shrimp and at least two important fish species; and (iii) catch
per unit of effort. APFD would also set up a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(MEU) reporting to the Director of Fisheries to monitor and report on project
problems and progress (see para 5.08).
5.05      GOAP State Ports Department.  The State Ports Department (SPD)
would plan and administer the construction of harbor works at Kakinada and
Nizampatnam and subsequently be responsible for the maintenance of these works.
At Visakhapatnam, which is under GOI control, the Visakhapatnam Port Trust
(VPT) would plan and administer construction of fishing harbor works and make
arrangements to operate the fishing harbor, slipway and repair facilities.
For Nizampatnum, SPD would also coordinate with other relevant agencies of
the Department of Transport, Roads and Buildings for harbor, training wall
and approach road construction, and with the Irrigation Department for dredg-
ing. SPD currently operates a program of registration and licensing for
mechanized fishing vessels using State ports, which, in addition to inspection
and safety regulations, includes provision for bank liens on fishing vessel
licenses to help provide security for MFV loans. SPD will coordinate with
VPT to insure compatability and completeness of vessel registration and
licensing in the State, and to help make suitable arrangements for endorse-
ment of bank liens on MFVs licensed at the GOI-operated Visakhapatnam harbor.
Present SPD management is effective and competent; however, SPD would require
two additional engineering divisions, one each for Kakinada and Nizampatnam
to supervise project works. In addition, it would provide sufficient port
staff for operating the new harbor facilities at Kakinada and Nizampatnam.
5.06      GOAP Panchayati Raj Department.  The Panchayati Raj Department 1/
would have responsibility for overseeing construction of project village access
roads and the Nizampatnam water supply system. The Panchayati Raj Department
provides engineering services for most other departments for specified commu-
nity or village level small-scale development projects, including, for example,
construction and maintenance of village roads, rural water schemes, small
irrigation works, and schools. The Department is adequately staffed and has
250 engineers at the level of assistant engineer or higher, with executive
1/ Functions as a community or rural development department.



- 22 -
engineers at district level who would plan and supervise village access road
and water system construction. The Department would not require additional
staff to undertake works for the project.
5.07      And'hra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation.  The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries
Corporation (APFC) would play a key role in the project. It would (i) build
most of the project 9m and 10m MFVs at its Kakinada Boat Building Yard; (ii)
'build and operate two experimental 23m wooden hull trawlers; (iii) own and
Dperate new seafood processing plants for freezing, ice supply and cold storage,
one each at Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam; (iv) help arrange GOAP 15% margin
money loans for borrowers who need assistance to purchase project MFVs (see
paras 4.03 and 5.10); and (v) procure, process and export most of the shrimp
from project vessels and facilities. At the operating level, some changes in
organization would be required under the project to ensure efficient and
effective control of APFC operations by management, particularly as related to
the project (See Chart 18381). General Managers at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada
and an Assistant General Manager at Nizampatnam would be assigned to oversee
dlay-to-day operations and project implementation at each project site, report-
ing to the APFC Managing Director. Two new units, a Project Management Unit
and a Financial Control Unit, would be set up to help the Managing Director
monitor and coordinate project programs and APFC operations.  In view of the
greatly expanded financial commitments required for effective execution of
'project activities, GOAP would be required to (i) provide additional share
capital resources (estimated at Rs. 5.0 million) and (ii) complete the evalua-
tion of State-owned assets transferred to APFC. In addition, GOAP would have
APFC's Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts for 1975-76 and 1976-77
audited by the statutory auditors and provide copies of the auditor's reports
to IDA by September 30, 1978; the 1977-78 audit report would be provided to IDA
by December 31, 1978.
Monitoring and Evaluation
.5.08     On the basis of the detailed project implementation plan, the Mon-
itoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) to be established in APFD would monitor and
compare actual with expected project progress, and APFC and other agencies in-
volved would cooperate with MEU.  IDA would receive Quarterly Progress Reports
from APFD covering the various project components, including where applicable
information on tendering, bid awards, procurement and disbursements, and also
specific information on departmental staffing as related to project activities.
]Each report would, in addition, provide specific data on the Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries Coriporation, including staffing, progress, activities, and financial
'performance, as well as information on activities and results of the APFD
Catch Monitoring Unit (CMU) to be established (see para 5.04). These Progress
'Reports and periodic IDA supervision missions would help to ensure the adequacy
of monitoring and evaluation, to anticipate, identify and evaluate problems,
and to take ac:tions necessary. NEU would also have prepared an evaluation
study designed specifically to measure the impact of the various project com-
ponents and the extent to which the project produces benefits as assumed at
appraisal. The study would provide information on conditions before the
project, changes occurring during the project and conditions after project
completion in order to assist in the design of future fisheries projects.
Assurances would be obtained that APFD would establish MEU and CMU by
December 31, '1978.



- 23 -
Credit Organization
5.09      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation.  ARDC would be
responsible for: -
(i) refinancing loans by Participating Banks (PBs) to indi-
viduals, cooperatives or companies for project fishing
vessels;
(ii)  refinancing loans by PBs to APFC for seafood processing
facilities; and
(iii)  assisting PBs and prospective borrowers to prepare and
evaluate investment plans.
ARDC would prepare a project banking plan, which is a standard feature of
other bank-group operations involving ARDC, and it would be a condition of
effectiveness that the banking plan was acceptable to IDA. At this time,
ARDC is operating satisfactorily in 30 IDA-assisted projects in the agri-
cultural sector. 1/
5.10      Institutional Assistance to Small Fishermen.  Under the project,
commercial banks and Central and State Cooperative Banks would provide credit
to fishermen for fishing vessels and to APFC for seafood processing facilities.
To assist smaller fishermen in purchasing MFVs, some loans would be made
through existing GOAP programs for margin money loans. In addition to gov-
ernment programs to assist smaller fishermen such as the SFDA, BCC and the
Industries Department (see para 2.18), GOAP would provide MFV loans to small
individual or group borrowers for 15% of the investment cost, with banks
providing 80% of the cost and borrowers contributing equity of 5%; APFC helps
small borrowers obtain these MFV loans, acts as a financial intermediary for
the loans, and assists with loan payment collection. Under the project,
these loans would be on terms similar to the bank loans and collected
concurrently.
VI. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
6.01      At full development in about 1983, the project's annual incremental
output from fishing vessels financed under the project and vessels expected to
use project harbors would be about 21,000 tons of fish valued at US$2.0 million
and about 5,000 tons of shrimp valued at US$15.7 million on the basis of
1/   For the most recent appraisal of ARDC, see Second Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation Credit Project, Report No. 1520-IN, May 12,
1977 for IDA Credit No. 715-IN totalling US$200.0 million.



- 24 -
September 1977 landed prices.  Most of the shrimp would be exported.  In
addition, an incremental annual production of about 10,000 tons of fish valued
al: Rs 14.3 milLion (US$1.7 million) is expected as a result of project access
roads for fishing villages.
Marketing
6.02      Export market prospects for shrimp, the project's major product,
are excellent. Most of the world's best shrimp resources are already fully
exploited and, as incomes increase, world shrimp demand is expected to conti-
nile rising. India is currently the world's largest producer and largest ex-
porter of shrimp, and holds about 20% of the world market. This project will
help India to further advance her strong position in the world shrimp trade by
both increasing production for export and improving quality. Expected incre-
mental shrimp exports from the project would total 5% of exports from India
and constitute less than 1% of expected world shrimp trade when the project
reaches full development in 1983.
6.03      Domestic market demand appears sufficient to absorb the 31,000
tons of incremental fish production expected annually from the project. As
indicated in the Gujarat appraisal, GOI forecasts indicate that consumption
osE fish by the fish eating population of India would increase at an average
annual rate of about 6.5% (about 130,000 tons annually) to 1985, which appears
realistic in vilew of past annual growth rates of about 8% over the last decade,
expected real income increases, and the growing consumer awareness of fish
as a chief source of protein. Annual incremental fish production from the
project would represent about 1.0% of projected total Indian fish consumption
whken the project reaches full development in 1983.
6.04      A major emphasis of the project would be to improve quality and mar-
keting of shrimp exports.  Most of the project's incremental shrimp production
would be procured by APFC and processed in facilities financed under the
project. Some of the fish would be procured and marketed locally by APFC.
Although fish is a relatively small part of the project's expected total in-
cremental value product, the project would attempt to improve fish marketing
by means of constructing fishing village access roads and by having APFC to
take a leading role in opening up new markets. APFC currently has underway
a study intended to help it improve the efficiency of its fish marketing
operations.
PIrices
6.05      Prices used for project financial projections are based on average
prices receivedl by fishermen at landing sites in September 1977. Given the
expected growth in demand, especially with respect to shrimp exports, and
the exceptionally high quality of the shrimp resource and expected improve-
ment in quality of processing shrimp, the use of these prices on a constant
basis for proje!ct evaluation is reasonable. Prices used average Rs 26,400
(U[S$3,070) per ton for shrimp and Rs 818 (US$95) per ton for fish caught
by project vessels. For village fishermen, average prices received for fish
are expected to increase by 6.7% to an average for all species caught at



- 25 -
Rs 1,430 per ton due to decreased transport and marketing costs and more
competition among fish traders as villages become more accessible. Export
price of Rs 59,000 (US$6,800) per ton is assumed, based on 1977 prices
received by APFC for exported shrimp.
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
7.01      The project's financial benefits would consist primarily of (i) the
value of incremental catch resulting from project vessels and improved pro-
ductivity of the subsistence fishermen who would be served by the project
access roads, (ii) the incremental increase in landed catch prices due to im-
proved quality of the fish marketed by the subsistence fishermen benefiting
from project access roads and the shrimp processed by APFC's new plants, and
(iii) the value of generally improved services of project harbors as indicated
by increased port revenues from wharfage and docking fees. At full development,
proposed project investments are expected to yield annual incremental landings
of about 36,000 tons of fish and shrimp valued at US$29.4 million.
7.02      The project investments (US$10.8 million, or 30% of total project
cost) which warrant separate calculations are expected to yield the following
financial rates of return:
10m MFVs                    31%
9m MFVs                     34%
12m Non-MFVs                36%
Seafood Plants       over 100%
Estimated financial rates of return are based on cash flow projections shown
in Annex 4.
Cost Recovery of Investment in Harbors
7.03      At present no unified system of user charges for fishing warfage
exists in India. As part of the ongoing Gujarat Fisheries Project, however,
GOI has undertaken to carry out a review of its policy on the recovery of in-
vestments in fishing harbor facilities. GOI policy guidelines resulting from
this review are expected in July 1978, and should have an important bearing on
the cost recovery measures to be taken with respect to project harbor invest-
ments. In lieu of what may eventually result from this review, GOAP plans to
introduce its own cost recovery program in the form of wharfage and port fees
to be charged to vessels using these harbors. It is anticipated that the
level of fees finally adopted will be consistent with GOI policy guidelines.
Economic Analysis
7.04      For the credit components, estimated economic rates of return are
higher than the financial rates, but only slightly because the duties and



- 26 -
taxes involved and the effect of the shadow exchange rate, which constitute
the only necessary adjustments, are not large.
7.05      Village access roads would provide fishermen with better and
faster access to markets. The impact of these relatively modest investments
of US$16,000/km of road would be considerable. Estimated benefits to village
fishermen include an increase in average landed prices for fish from Rs 1.34/kg
without the project to Rs 1.43/kg with the project due primarily to improved
quality, and an increase in production from 25,800 tons without the project
t:o 35,800 tons with the project due to increased prices and improved access
to markets and services.  Using these assumptions, the estimated average
economic rate of return is 40% (42% for Visakhapatnam, 52% for East Godavari
and 23% for Gtmtur).  For details of these analyses, see Annex 5, Table 1.
7.06      For the purpose of the economic evaluation of project investments,
each harbor has been considered as a composite undertaking involving harbor
works, vessels and, in the case of Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam, seafood
plants. On the basis of costs and benefits of these constituent investments,
t:he estimated rate of return is 28% for Visakahapatnam, 45% for Kakinada,
and 17% for Nizampatnam. The average for all of these three harbors is 34%.
Sensitivity analyses show that with a combination of 20% investment cost
overrun and 20% benefit reduction, the estimated economic rate of return is
19% for Visakhapatnam, 33% for Kakinada and 11% for Nizampatnam (See Annex
5, Tables 2 to 4).
7.07      The estimated overall economic rate of return for the entire project
investment (US$33.9 million or 93% of total project cost) is 35%, excluding
the technical assistance component, most of which is not directly required for
implementation of the project and is oriented toward general marine fisheries
development assistance. In the economic analysis, a standard conversion
iEactor of 1.14, Rs 10 = US$1.00, was used to approximate the economic value
t:o the economy of foreign exchange used and earned by the project.
Project Beneficiaries
7.08      Most: of the project beneficiaries would be poor fishermen.  These
would include many of the 75,000 members of the subsistence fishermen communi-
lies presently living in isolated fishing villages which would be linked to
market outlets through the access roads to be constructed under the project,
and the 2,500 fishermen who would find jobs on project vessels. While the
ownership of the vessels would be with rural entrepreneurs, cooperatives and
business companies, the benefit accruing to the fishermen would be consider-
able because ithe typical vessel would be fairly profitable and the crew would
receive a share of gross sales in addition to wages. For example, the share
For each crew member would total about Rs 5,200 annually for lOm MFVs. (See
Annex 4). Additional beneficiaries would include several hundred workers
required for project shore facilities.



- 27 -
Long Term Development Impact
7.09      In the long run, perhaps the most important contribution of the
project would be its expected effect on the development of deep-sea fisheries
by India. At present, most motorized fishing operate on a day-return basis,
and India has virtually no deep-sea fishing capability despite the very rich
resources of adjoining oceans. The project fleet and facilities for servicing
23m trawlers would be an early step in the development of a deep-sea fishing
industry. In addition, the fishing village access road component would be an
important beginning in attempting to help large numbers of subsistence fisher-
men to improve their lot.
Risks
7.10      The only risks of the project would be the degree of possible over-
harvesting of shrimp resources in the near shore areas, and the constraints
to project development if the project 9m MFVs were to have difficulty in
negotiating the shallow bar at the Nizampatnam harbor entrance under adverse
weather conditions. The resource base appears to be adequate, however, and to
prevent possible over-fishing, the project would institute a catch monitoring
system as discussed in paras 5.04 and 5.08. The risk attending the Nizampatnam
harbor entrance, given the underlying physical contours, does not appear to be
significantly reducible at acceptable investment cost. The project harbor
consultant would, however, attempt to explore such possibilities as exist.
Under the circumstances as discussed (para 3.05) and with adequate vessel
safety precautions as indicated (para 3.10), the risk is considered acceptable.
Environmental Effect
7.11      The project would have an insignificant effect on the environment,
and such effects as may occur would be justified in view of the substantial
economic and social benefits expected to occur. The port administrative
service would be responsible for preventing possible pollution which might
result from unregulated proliferation of motorized vessels.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that:
(i) GOI would:
(a)  GOAP to hire for SPD a qualified Project Engineer accept-
able to IDA by December 31, 1978 and a consultant specialist
in estuarial river training works on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 3.20);
(b)  cause GOAP to hire, by December 31, 1979, a qualified
naval architect acceptable to IDA to assist KBBY in
the development of wooden hull shrimp trawlers on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.20);



- 28 -
(c) cause GOAP to construct two experimental wooden hull
shrimp trawlers under technical assistance and to cause
APFC to operate these vessels by December 31, 1981
(para 3.20);
(d) cause GOAP to plan and undertake an overseas study tour
for APFC and other fisheries officials and personnel
engaged in processing, marketing and quality control of
seafood for export by December 31, 1979 (para 3.20);
(e) cause VPT to administer the procurement of project
fishing harbor work at Visakhapatnam and to be respon-
sible for its operation (para 4.11);
(f) cause VPT to make necessary arrangements, by December 31,
:1978, to operate the fishing harbor, slipway and repair
facilities at Visakhapatnam (para 5.05); and
(g) cause VPT in conjunction with GOAP to make provision
for endorsement of bank liens on licenses of mechanized
vessels registered at Visakhapatnam harbor by June 30,
:1979 (para 5.05).
(ii)  GOAP would:
(a) include the harbor entrance at Nizampatnam within
the seaward limits of the Port under the jurisdic-
tion of SPD, and make their best efforts to ensure
that the entrance channel would be maintained at a
minimum water depth in the entrance of at least
1.0 meter (para 3.05);
(b) cause APFC to maintain separate accounts for project
components and to provide IDA with audited accounts
'within six months of the close of each financial
year (para 4.18);
(c) cause APFD to establish a Catch Monitoring Unit and a
project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit by December 31,
1978 (para 5.04);
(d) cause APFD to develop a detailed work plan for catch
monitoring satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1979
(para 5.04);
(e) establish a Fisheries Terminal Organization at each
of the three project harbor sites (in conjunction
with VPT at Visakhapatnam) to superintend project
fisheries activities (para 5.04);



- 29 -
(f) provide additional share capital to APFC of Rs 2.0 mil-
lion by June 30, 1979 and Rs 3.0 million by June 30,
1980 (para 5.07);
(g)  complete the evaluation of assets transferred to APFC
by June 30, 1979, and provide IDA with a summary of
the evaluation upon its completion (para 5.07);
(h) cause APFC to set up a Project Management Unit and a
Financial Control Unit and assign a qualified General
Manager for Visakhapatnam, another for Kakinada, and
an Assistant General Manager for Nizampatnam by June 30,
1979 (para 5.07); and
(i) cause APFC to have its Balance Sheets and Profit and
Loss Accounts for audited by qualified auditors accept-
able to IDA and provide copies of the auditor's reports
to IDA by September 30, 1978 for 1975-76 and 1976-77,
and by December 31, 1978 for 1977-78;
(j) provide IDA with quarterly progress reports on
project activities (para 5.08); and
(k) finalize and inform IDA of specific terms and con-
ditions for its loans to assist small fishermen pur-
chase fishing vessels under the project (para 5.10).
(iii)   ARDC would maintain separate audited accounts for project com-
ponents, and these audited accounts would be sent to IDA with-
in four months of the close of each financial year (para 4.18).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(i)  a Project Coordinating Committee at the state level had
been established by GOAP (para 5.01); and
(ii)  a banking plan satisfactory to IDA had been received by
IDA (para 5.09).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$17.5 million on standard IDA terms.






ANNEX I
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
Financial Position Summary
(Rs million)
1974-75   1975-76    1976-77
(July - June)
Borrowings                                 0.92      0.91        2.13
Other Liabilities                          4.97      5.30        6.67
Paid-up Capital                            5.59      5.59        6.59
Retained Earnings                         (0.04)   (0.54)        (0.43)
Total Equity and Liabilities            11.44    11.26        14.96
Cash and Bank Deposits                     2.96      0.79        0.12
Closing Stocks and Current Assets          5.76      3.38        5.14
Loans and Advances                          -        1.79        2.70
Preliminary Payments                       0.05      0.05        0.05
Sundry Debtors                             0.02     0.87         1.42
Fixed Assets                               2.50      4.38        5.33
Other Investments                          0.15      -           0.20
Total Assets                           11.44    11.26        14.96



ANNEX 2
Table I
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Fishing Vessels
Estimated Fishing Vessel Fleet Size in Project Districts
Visakhapatnam      East Godavari       Guntur
------------Present Fleet-----------------
Non-ME'Vs            8,074               2,778             1,330
MFVs                    275                410                25
Trawlers                 22                 -                 -
------Vessels Added Under the Project-----
Non-MFVs                 -                  -                 60
MFVs                    150                150                60
Trawlers                 -                  -
------Fleet at Full Development /a--------
Non-MFVs             8,074               2,778             1,330
MFVs                    370                478                72
Trawlers                 50                  15               -
/a   Assumed vessel attrition during the project period is
20% for MFVs and 10% for trawlers; outside private in-
vestment is expected to balance attrition for non-MFVs
(including 60 vessels under the project), and add 30
trawlers at Visakhapatnam and 15 at Kakinada.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Fishing Vessels
Description of Fishing Vessels for Project Harbors /a
lOm      9m        12m
23 m Trawler /b      MFV     MFV       Non-MFV
Steel    Wood7c    Wood    Wood         Wood
Length Overall (m)               23.00    23.97    10.33       9.14      12.00
Length at Water Line (m)         21.25    22.16      9.60      8.53      11.00
Beam (m)                          7.20      7.42     2.90      2.60       3.00
Depth (m)                         3.56      3.51     1.22      1.01       1.45
Draft - Maximum (m)               2.60      2.90     1.14      1.00      0.60
Displacement (tons)             140.00   155.00      8.19      4.86       7.00
Power (shaft hp)                380-500  400-450   45-60    40-50    sail-oars
Crew (men)                       13       13         5         5         7
Normal Endurance (days)          14        14        1         1         4-5
Equipped Cost (Rs '000)       4,500.00    - /d    169.00   108.50       36.00
Number in Project                30         2      300        60        60
/a   Not specifications.
/b   Trawler to include complete freezing and refrigeration system for
shrimp and approximately 100 hp in two auxiliary diesel engines for
electricity generation, hydraulic pumps and refrigeration; trawler
to be adaptable for other types of fishing besides shrimp trawling.
Only the two wooden hull trawlers are financed by the project.
Ic   Experimental wooden hull trawlers to be constructed under technical
assistance and operated by APFC.
/d   Based on current construction costs, estimated cost of wooden hull
trawlers fully equipped ranges between Rs 3.5 to 4.0 million.



INDIA                                 ANNEX 3
Table 1
ANDIIRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
-----  Rs '000 -------            --------US$ '000--------
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total       Local       Foreign    Total       Exchange
Harbors
Visakhapatnam
Base Cost Estimate                56,235       -        56,235    6,539.0         -        6,539.0       -
Physical Contingencies             7,150       -         7,150       831.4       _           831.4      -
Subtotal                        63,385       -       63,385    6,370.4          -        6,370.4      -
Kakinada
Base Cost Estimate                53,020       -        53,020    6,165.1         -        6,165.1       -
Physical Contingencies             7,557       -         7,557       878.7                   878.7       -
Subtotal                        60,577       -       60,577    7,043.8          -       7,043.8       -
Nizampatnam
Base Cost Estimate                 6,960       -        6,96b        809.3        -          809.3      -
Physical Contingencies               946       -           946       110.0                   110.0       -
Subtotal                         7,906       -        7,906        919.3       -          919.3       -
Total Harbors                 131,868,             .131,868   15,333.5          -      15,333.5       -
Village Roads and Water Supply
Visakhapatnam District
.Base Cost Estimate               12,315       -        12,315    1,432.0         -        1,432.0       -
Physical Contingencies             1,232                 1,232      143.2         -         143.2       -
Subtotal                        13,547       _       13,547    1,575.2         -        1,575.2       -
East Godavari District
Base Cost Estimate                 9,000       -         9,000    1,046.5         -        1,046.5       -
Physical Contingencies               900       _           900      104.7        -          104.7       -
Subtotal                         9,900       -         9,900    1,151.2        -        1,151.2
Ginatur District
Base Cost Estimate                 9,248       -         9,248    1,075.3         -       1,075.3       -
.Physical Contingencies              925                   925       107.6        -          107.6      -
Subtotal                        10,173       -       10,173    1,182.9         -        1,182.9       -
Village Water Supply
.ase Cost Estimate                   485       -           485        56.4        -           56.4      -
Physical Contingencies                15       -            15         1.7        -            1.7      -
Subtotal                           500       -           500        58.1       -           58.1       -
Total Roads and Water           34,120       -        34,120    3,967.4        -        3,967.4       -
Fishing Vessels
lon MFVs           (300)            50,700       -        50,700    5,895.3         -       5,895.3       -
9m MFVs             (60)             6,510       -         6,510       757.0        -          757.0      -
12un Non-MFVs       (60)             2,160       -         2,160       251.2        -          251.2      -
Total Vessels (420)             59,370       -       59,370    6,903.5         -        6,903.5       -
Seafood Processing Facilities
Visakhapatnam
Base Cost Estimate                 8,150         30      8,180      947.7         3.5       951.2       -
Physical Contingencies               186       -           186        21.5       -           21.5       -
Subtotal                         8,366         30     8,366       969.2         3.5       972.7       -
Nizampatnam
Base Cost Estimate                 1,660       -         1,660      193.0        -          193.0       -
Physical Contingencies                28       -            28         3.3       -            3.3       -
Subtotal                         1,688       -        1,688       196.3        -          196.3       -
Total Seafood Processing        10,024         30    10,054    1,165.5          3.5    1,169.0        -
Technical Assistance
River Training Speciialist             207       -           207      -                                   -
Navral Architect                      -           473        473      -            55.0        55.0      100%
Overseas Study Tour                   -           900        900      -           104.7       104.7      100%
Wood Hull Trawlers                  10,000       -        10,000    1,162.8         _       1,162.8       -
Total Technical Assistance    10,207        1,373    11,580    1,186.9        159.6    1,346.5        12%
Total With Physical Contingencie's  245,589       1,403   246,992   28,556.9        163.1   28,720.0         1%
ASPAI)
April 1978



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Costs
Expected Price Increases
1978      1979        1980      1981       1982       1983      Total
Expected Plrice Increase Rates
Civil Works                             8%         8%          8%        8%         8%        8%          -
Equipment - Local                       7%         7%          7%        7%         7%        7%          -
Equipment - Foreign                    7.5%       7.5%         7%        7%         7%        7%          -
Civil Works
Base Cost Estimate 1/                    -       33,988     59,344    48,040         630       -      142,002
Piysical Contingencies               _            4,414       8,245     6,185         95       -        18,939
Sub-total                              -       38,402     67,589    54,225         725       -      160,941
Expected Price Increases             _            6,372      17,575    17,839        341       -        42,127
Total Civil Works                      -       44,774      85,164    72,064      1,066       -      203,068
Equipment - Local
base Cost Estimate 1/                             9,258      19,273    15,140    14,540    16,230       74,441
Expected Price Increases                          1,343       4,337     4,7        5,870     8,193      24,453
Total lhocal Equipment                 -       10,601      23,610    19,850    20,410    24,423       98,894
Equipment - Foreign
Base Cost Estimate 1/                               -            30                  -         -            30
Expected IPrice Increases            _           _                6       -                                  6
Total Foreign Equipment                           -            36       -          _                      36
Technical Assistance                                1,196       5,148     5,236        -         -        11,580 c|
Total Expected Price Increases             -        7,715      21,918    22,549      6,211     8,193      66,586  
Total Project Cost                                 56,571    113,958    97,150    21,476    24,423    313,578
Price Increase as Percent of
Base Cost Plus Contingencies                        -          -          -          -         -           21%
1/ Civil W4orks Base Cost includes engineering, and also land at Visakhapatnam. All Base Costs are based on
September 1977.
ASPAD
April 1978



A',.%X 3
Table 3
INDIA
AND1IRA PRADISH FISILERIES PP.OJFCT
Project Cost Estimates
InifrastructtLre Components
(Rs '000)
1979      1980       1981       ]982       Total
Harbors
Visakhapatnam
Civil Works                                       8,667    21,667    13,000           -       43,334
Equipment                                           -        3,540          -         -        3,540
Land Acquisition                                    -          -        4,674          -       4,674
Engineering (10%)                                    867      2,520      1,300         -        _4_,87
Suib-total Base Cost                            9,534    27, 727    18,974          -       56,235
Physical Contingencies (15%)                      1,430      3,575      2,145         -         7,150
Sub-total                                      10,964    31,302    21,119           -       63,385
Kakinada
Civil Works                                       9,160    18,370    18,320           -       45,800
Equipment                                           -        1,600        800         -        2,400
Engineering (10%)                                    916    _1992        1,912         -       4,820
Sub-total Base Cost                            10,076    21,912    21,032           -       53,020
Physical Contingencies (15%)                      1,S]]      _ 3_, 023  3,023         --       7,57
Sub-total                                      11,587    24,935    24,055           -       60.577
Nizampatniam
Civil Works                                         860      2,006      2,293         573      5,732
Equipment                                           -          405        190         -          595
Engineering i(1O0)                                    86        242        248          5'        633
Sub-total Base Cost                               946      2,653      2,731         630      6,960
Physical Contingencies (15%)                         142        331        378          95       946
Sub-total                                       1,088      2,984      3,109         725      7,906
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Works .L/                                  20,556    46,192    36,974            630   104,352
Equipment - 'Local                                  -        6,100      1,089         -        7,189
Land Acquisition                                    -          -        4 h74         -
Sub-total Base Cost                            20,556    52,292    42,737           630   116,715
Physical Contiingencies                              3,083      6924I      5,546          9L    IS 6'e3
Sub-total                                      23,639    59,22]      48,283         725   131,868
Expected 3'rice Increases 2/
Civil Works                                       3,924    13,812    15,307            343    33,384
Equipment                                           -        1.372         339        -        1,7]]
Sub-total                                       3,924    15,184    15,646           341    35,095
Total Harbors                                         27,563    74,40,    63,929         1,066   166,963
Village Roads and Water Supply
Visakhapatnam
Civil Works Base Cost  1/                         4,926      4,926      2,463        -        12,315
Physical Contingencies ?lZ)                          493        493       246        -         1,232
Sub-total                                       5,419      5,419      2,709        -        13.547
East Godavari
Civil Works Base Cost  1/                         3,600      3,600      1,800        -         9,000
Physical Contingencies b10%)                         360        360        180       -           900
Sub-total                                       3,960      3,960      1,980        -         9,900
Guntor District:
Civil Works Base Cost  1/                         3,699      3,699      1,850        -         9,248
Physical Contingencies (10%)                         370        370       1R5       _            925
Sub-total                                       4,069      4,069      2,035        -        10,173
Nizampatniam Water Supply
Civil Works  1/                                      280        -         -          -           280
Equipment                                            205        -         -          -           205
Sub-total Base Cost                               485        -          -          -           485
Physical Contingencies (5%)                           15        -          -         -             15
Sub-total Water Supply                            500        -          -          -           500
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Works 1/                                   12,505    12,225       6,113        -        30,843
Equipment                                            205        -          -         -           205
Sub-total Base Cost                            12,710    12,225       6,113        -        31,048
Physical Contingencies               1,238                                   611        611-  3,072
Sub-total.                                     13,948    13,448       6,724        -        34,120
Expected Price Increases 2/
Civil Works                                        2,278     3,497       2,421        -        8,196
Equiipment - Local                                    30        -          -        _              30
Suh-tota3                                       2,308      3,497      2,421        -         8,226
Total Roads and Vater Supply                          16,256    16,945       9,145        -        42,346
Total Tnfranstrcture Components                       43,819    91,350    73,074        1,066   209,309
1/ Includes enginreering.
2/  For vxpe(tcd price increase rates, see Annca 4,   Table 2; rates applied to the sum oi Base Cost,
Engineerintg and Physical Contingencies.
ASPAD
April 1978



INDIA                                            ANNEX 3
Table 4
ANDI{RA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Credit Components, Technical Assistance and Total Cost
1979      1980      1981      1982     1983       Total
Fishing Vessels
lOm MFV
Unit Cost                                                 169       169       169       169      169         169
Number of Units                                            4        so        60        70       80         300
Sub-total                                            6,760              10,140   11,830   13,5'20       50,700
9nm MTV
Unit Cost                                                lo8.5      108.5    108.5    108.5    108.5         108.5
Number of Units                                           -         -          20       20        20          60
Sub-total                                              -          -      2,170    2,170    2,170         6,510
12m Non-I,FV
Unit Cost                                                  36        36        36        36       36          36
Number of Units                                           10         10        10        15       1S          60
Sub-total                                              360        360       360      540        4o      2,160
Base Cost Estimate                                       7,120      8,810   12,670   14,',4o   16,230       59,310
Expected Price Increases  /                              1,033      1,982    3,941    5,870    8,193        21,019
Total All Vessels                                          8,153    10,792   16,611   24,410   24,423         80,389
Seafood Processing Facilities
Visakhapatnam
Civil Works                                              927        927       -        -         -         1,854
Equi.pment                                             1 933      4 393       -                            6.3
Sub-total Base Cost                                  25,320                 -        -         -
Physical Contingencies (10%)                              93         93       -        -         -           1^6
Sub-total Plant                                          3      5,413       -        -        -,36
Nizampatnam
Civil Works                                              -          -         279      -         -           279
Equipment                                                -          -      1 381        -        -         1.R1q
Sub-total Base Cost                                    -          -                  -         -        1,660
Physical Contingencies (10%)                             -          -          28      -         -
Sub-tota.l. Plant__1-_1,"
Base Cost      Pln                                                             Tl,8
Civil Works                                              927        927       279      -                   2,133
Equipment - Local                                      1,933      4,363    1,381       -                   7,677
Equipment - Foreign                                     -            30       -         -        -            30
Sub-total Base Cost                                  2,850      5,320    1,          -         -M9,840
Phnysical Contingencies                                     93          3      _'8       -         -            14
Sub-total                                            2,953      5,413    1, b6       -         -
Expected Price Increases                                    1
Civil Works                                              170        266       ill.          -                547
Equipment - Local                                        280        983       430      -                   1,693
Equipment - Foreign                                      -            6       -        -         -9
Sub-total                                   .          455      1,25S                -                   2,246
Total Processing                                            3,403     6,668    2,229        -         -       12,300
Technical Assistance
River Training Specialist                                  138         69       -        _                     207
Naval Architect                                            158         79       236      -         -           473
Overseas Study Tour                                         900       _         _         _        _           900
Wooden Hull Trawlers                                       -        5,000    5.000                 -        10,000
Sub-total Base Cost                                    1,196      5,148    5,236       -         -        llt580
Total Credit and Technical Assistance                     12,752    22,608   24.076   20,410   24,423    104.269
Total Project Cost                                        56,571   113,958   97,150   21,476   24,423    313,578
2 For expected price increase rates, see Annex 4, Table 2.
April 1978,- ASPAD



ANNEX 3
Table S
INDIA
ANDIIRA PRADESH FISIIERIES PROJECT
Estimated Base Cost as of Septeinber 1977
Harbors
(Rs '000)
US$ '000
jiaakhapatnsm                                      Local   Foreign       Total   Equivalent
Civil Works
Prelimirnary Works                               575       -           575         66.9
Additiorial Quay Works                        34,836       -        34,836       4050.7
Additiornal Slipway Facilities                 1,908       -         1,908        221.9
Rock Dredging                                  1,966       -         1,966        228.6
Buildings                                      1,733       -         1, 733       206.2
Roads, Drains and Culverts                       989       -           989        115.0
Water Stipply                                    287       -           287         33.4
Power SIpply                                   1,tOO       -         1,000        116.3
Subtotal                                   43,334       -        43,334       5038.8
Equipment
Additiornal Slipway Facilities                 2,576       -         2,576        299.5
Power Stipply                                    964       -           964        112.1
Subtotal                                    3,540       -         3,540        411.6
Land Acquisition                                 4,674       -         4,674        543.5
Subtotal Harbor Works                      51,548       -        51.548       5994.0
Engineerirng                                     4t68        -         4,687        545.0
Subtotal Base Cost                         56,235       -        56,235       6539.0
Physical Contingencies (15%)                     7 150       _         7,150        831.4
Total Visakhapatnam                        63,385       -        63,385       7370.4
Kakinada
Civil Works
Breakwat:er                                  25,000       -        25,000      2,907.0
Landing Quay                                   3,500       -         3,500        407.0
Outfitting-Borthing Quay                      1,600        -        1,600         186.0
Berthing Quay                                  3,900      -         3,900         453.4
Trawler Quay                                  5,000       -         5,000         581.4
Auction Hall;.    1,800                                   -         1,800         209.3
Dredging Chznnels and Basin                    2,000      -         2,000         232.6
Boat Repair Facility and Crane                   500      -            500         58.1
Buildings                                        530      -            530         61.6
Roads and Drainage                               530      -            530         61.6
Servicesi and Utilities                      1,440        -         1,440         167.4
Subtotal                                   45,800       -        45,800      5,325.5
Equipment
Boat Repair Facility and Crane                1,000       -         1,000         116.3
Services and Utilities                          l         -         1,400         162.8
Subtotal                                    2,400       -         2,400        279.1
Subtol.al P1rbor Works                     48,200       -        48,790      5,604.6
Engineering                                     4,820        -        4,820         560.5
Subtot:al Base Cost                        53,020       -        53,020      6,165.1
Physical Contiagencies (15%)                     7.557       -         7.557        878.7
Total Kakinada                             60,577       -        60,577      7,043.8
Nizampatiam
Civil Works
Dredging and Excavation                         836       -           836         97.2
Revetmeat                                      173       -           173         20.1
Quay Wall with Ramp                           1,392       -         1,392        161.9
Auction Hall                                     396      -           396         46.0
Surfacinig Harbor Area                          352       -           352         40.9
Buildings                                       253       -           153         29.4
Approach Road                                 1,747       -         1,747        203.2
Marine and Maintenance Facilities                 85      -            85          9.9
Services and Utilities                          498       -           498         57.9
Subtoital                                   5,732       -         5,732        666.5
Equipment
Repair Facilities                               215       -           215         25.0
Services and Utilities                           360      -           3&0         44.2
Subtoital                                     595       -           595         69.2
Subtotal Harbor Works                       6,327       -         6,337        735.7
Enginieerinig                                     633       -           633         73.6
Subtotal Base Cost                          6,960       -         6,960        809.3
Physical Contingencies (15%)                      946       -           946        110.0
Total Nizampatnam                           7,906       -         7,906        919.3
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Worls                                    94 ,866      -        94,866    11,030.9
Equipment                                       6,535       -         6,535        759.9
Land Acquisition                                4 674       -         4,674        543.5
Engineerinig                                   10,140      _       _n, 140        , 179.1
SubtnLal. Base Cost                        16, 215      -      116,215    13,513.4
Physical Contingencies                         15 653       -        15,653      ],820.1
Total with Contingencies                 131,868        -      131,668    15,333.5
ASPAD
April 1978



ANNEX i
Table 6
INDIA                                     Page 1 of 2
ANDHRA PRADESII FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Base Cost as of September 1977
Fishing Village Access Roads and Nizampatnam Water Supply
(Rs '000)
USS ' 000
Visakhapatnam District                                   Local   Foreign    Total   Equivalent
1.    Chintapalli to Tammayyapalem                            2,440       -        2,440       283.7
2.    Konada to Kopperla and Thippavalasa                     3,340       -        3,340       388.4
3.    Gudiwada to Annavaram and Pedanagamayyapale             1,216       -        1,216       141.4
4.    Vadacheepurupalli to Thikkavanipalem and
Mutyalammapalem                                       1,008       -        1,008       117.2
5.    Vadacheepurupalli to Vadapalem and Tanthadi               308       -          308        35.8
6.    Pudimadaka to Kotbapatnam                               2,250       -        2,250       261.6
7.    Revulpolavaram to Bangarammapalem                         750       -          750        87.2
8.    Edatam to Palamanupeta and Venkatanagaram                           -        1.003       116.6
Subtotal Base Cost                                  12,315       -       12,315    1,431.9
Physical Contingencies (10%)                           1,232       -        .1,232       143.3
Subtotal Visakhapatnam                              13,547       -       13,547    1,575.2
East Godavari District
1.    Addaripeta to Vakalapudi                                7,750       -        7,750       901.1
2.    Vemavaram to Addaripeta                                   300       -          300        34.9
3.    Vemavaram to Yerraipeta                                   300       -          300        34.9
4.    Edatam to Vemavaram                                       300       -          300        34.9
5.    Annavaram t') Danaipeta                                   350       -          350        40.7
Subtotal Base Cost                                   9,000       -        9,000    1,046.5
Physical Contingencies (10%)                             900       -          900        104.7
Subtotal Fast Godavari                               9,900       -        9,900    1,151.2
Guntur Distrizt 1/
1.    Tummala to Gangadipalem                                 1,240       -        1,240       144.2
2.    Gangadipalem to Lankevanidibba                          2,300       -        2,300       267.4
3.    Chandramoulipuram to Mollagunta                           428       -          428        49.8
4.    Kothapalem to Mollagunta                                1,200       -        1,200       139.5
5.    Kotliapalem to Gondisamudram                              860       -          860       100.0
6.    New Bridge to the Beach                                   355       -          355        41.3
7.    Mundredu to Chlintarevu                                   355       -          355        41.3
8.    Palarevu to Nizampatnam                                   900       -          900       104.6
9.    Muthaipalem to Kothavodarevu                            1,610       -        1.610       187.2
Subtotal Base Cost                                   9,248       -        9,248    1,075.3
Physical Contingencies (10%)                             925       -          925       107.6
Subtotal Guntur                                     10,173       -       10,173    1,182.9
Nlzarnpatnam Water Supply
Civil Works                                              280       -          280        32.6
Equipment                                                205       -          205        23.8
Subtotal                                               485       -          485        56.4
Physical Contingencies (St)                               15       -           15         1.7
Subtotal Water Supply                                  500       -          500        58.1
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Works                                           30,843       -       30,843    3,586.3
Equipment                                                205       -          205        23.8
Total Base Cost                                     31,048       -       31,048    3,610.1
Physical Contingencies                                 3,072       -        3,072       357.3
Total with Contingencies                            34,120       -      34,120    3,967.4
1/ Includes Rs 20,000 per km for black topping.
AS PAD
February 1978



ANNEX 3
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Fishing Village Access Roads
- - Length - - - -        Villages/                      Bast Cust
Total   New   Improved    Landing                            Estimate
Visakhapatnam District                                     - - - - ks  - - - - -       Centers    Beneficiaries        Rs '000
1.  Chintapalli to Tammay-yapalem                          21      11       10             7            3,648          2,440
2.  Konada to Tippavalasa                                  27      17       10            4             1,985          3,340
3.  Guidiwada to Annavaram and redanagamayyapale           10       6        4             4            2,342          1,216
4.  Vadacheepurupalli to Thikkavanipalem and                7       7        -             4            1,360          1,008
14utyalammapalem
S.  Vadacheepurupalli to Vadapalem-Tanthadi                 3       1        2             1              620            308
6.  Puidimadaka to Kothapatnam                             15      15        -            6             4,216          2,250
7.  Re.vupolavaram to Bangarammapalem                       5       5        -             1            3,224            750
8.  Elatam to Palamanupeta and Venkatanagaram               5       5        5             5              9L,003
Sub-total                                           98      67       31            32           19,786         12,315
East Godavari District
1.  Addaripeta to Vakalapudi                               45      45        -           37            33,387          7,750
2.  Vemavaram to Addaripeta                                 2       2        -            1               820            300
3.  Vemavaram to Yerraipeta 1/                              2       2        -            -                  -           300
4.  Edatam to Vemavaram 1/                                  6       -        6            -                  -           300
5.  Annavaram to Danaipeta                                 14       -       14            4            _619              350
Sub-total                                           69      49       20            41           34,826          9,000
Guntur District 2/
1.  Tummala to Gangadipalen                                 7       -        7            7             5.454          1,240
2.  Cangadipalem to Lanikevanidibba                        13      13        -             7            2.121          2,300
3.  Chandramoulipuram to Mollagunta                         3       3        -             3            3,424            428
4.  Kothapalem to Mollagutnta                               5       5        -             2            4,848          1,200
5.  Kothapalem to Gondisamudram                             3       3        -            4             3,485            860
6.  Hew Bridge to the Beach                                 2       2        -            2               667            355
7.  F;undredu to Chintarevu                                 2       2        -            1               242            355
8.  Falarevu to Nizampatrnam                                5       5        -            1               242            900
9.  ?[uthaipalem to Kothavodarevu                           8       8        -            2             2.121          1,610
Sub-total                                           48      41        7            29           22,604          9,248
Total Roads                                        215    157        58           102           77,216         30,563
1/ Lirkk roads population aind villages included under other roads.
ASPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Unit and Base Costs as of September 1977
Fishing Vessels
(Rs '000)
US$
lOm MYVs                       Local        Total     Equivalent
Hull                           58.0          58.0          6.7
Engine                        102.0         102.0        11.9
Equipment                       5.0           5.0          0.6
Gear                            4.0           4.0         0.4
Unit Cost per Vessel        169.0        169.0         19.6
Total 300 Vessels       50,700.0      50,700.0      5,895.3
9m MEVs
Hull                           35.0          35.0         4.1
Engine                         65.0         65.0          7.6
Equipment                       4.5          4.5          0.5
Gear                            4.0          4.0          0.4
Unit Cost per Vessel       108.5         108.5         12.6
Total 60 Vessels         6,510.0       6,510.0        757.0
12m Non-MFVs
Hull                           12.0         12.0          1.4
Gear                           24.0         24.0          2.8
Unit Cost per Vessel         36.0         36.0          4.2
Total 60 Vessels         2,160.0       2,160.0        251.2
Base Cost Estimate
Total All Vessels          59,370.0    59,370.0       6,903.5
ASPAD
April 1978



ANNEX3
INDIA                                Table 8
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Unit and Base Costs as of September 1977
Seafood Processing Facilities
(Rs '000)
US$ '000
Local   Foreign    Total   Equivalent
Visakhapatnan
Building 1/                               1,854       -        1,854        215.6
Freezers 2i/                              1,890       -        1,890        219.8
Ice Making Machine 3/                     2,240       -        2,240       260.4
Ice Crushing Units (2)                        20      -            20         2.3
Ice Storage Machine 4/                      128       -          128        14.9
Cold Storage Machine 4/                     128       -          128        14.9
Frozen Storage Machine 5/                 1,000       -        1,000       116.3
Standby Diesel Generators (2) 6/            200       -          200        23.2
Shrimp Grader 7/                            -         30           30         3.5
Processing Room Equipment 8/                145       -          145        16.9
Office Equipment 9/                          20       -           20         2.3
Subtotal Base Cost                      7,625       30       7,655       890.1
Physical Contingencies (10%)                 186      -          186        21.1
Total Unit Cost                         7,811       30       7,841       911.6
Nizampatnam
Building 1/                                 279       -          279        32.5
Freezer 2/                                  290       -          290        33.7
Ice Making Machine 3/                       650       -          650        75.6
Ice Crushing t'nit                           10       -           10         1.2
Ice and Cold Storage Machine 4/              51       -           51         5.9
Frozen Storage Machine 5/                    48       -           48         5.6
Standby Diesel Generator 6/                   92      -           92        10.7
Processing Room Equipment 8/                 58       -           58          6.7
Office Equipment 9/                            7      -             7        0.8
Subtotal Base Cost                      1,485       -        1,485       172.7
Physical Contingencies (10%)                  28      -           28          3.3
Total Unit Cost                         1.513       -        1,513       176.0
Insulated Trucks
Visakhapatnam - 3 Units                     525       -          525        61.1
Nizampatnam - 1 Unit                        175       -          175        20.3
Subtotal                                  700       -          700        81.4
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Works                               2,133       -        2,133       248.0
Equipment                                 7,677       30       7,707       896.2
Total Base Cost                         9,810       30       9,840    1,144.2
Physical Contingencies                      213       -          213        24.8
Total with Contingencies               10,023       30      10,053    1,169.0
1/  Buildings costed at Rs 600 per m .  Equipment cost includes installation.
21  Six plate freezer units of 480 kg charging capacity each for Visakhapatnam and
one plate freezer of 250 kg charging capacity for Nizampatnam, with complete
equipment including compressors and piping. Freezing temperature to be less
than -35C.
3/  Complete Iblock ice-making units including ice cans, hoists and brine tank in-
sulation, capacity 80 tons per day at Visakhapatnam and 25 at Nizampatnam.
4/  Complete iunits including insulation, for air blast cold storage system, capacity
100 tons at Visakhapatnam and 50 tons at Nizampatnam at '5C.
5/  Complete uanits including insulation for air blast frozen storage system, capacity
600 tons at Visakhapatnam and 20 tons at Nizampatnam at less than -20C.
6/  Wiring from harbor transformer included.
7/ One unit, grading capacity 20 tons per day.
8/ Includes scales, wheel barrows, platform trollies, processing tables and trays.
9/ Includes office furniture, two typewriters and a duplicating machine.
10/  Insulated truck holding five tons of frozen cargo for 12 hours.
ASPAD
April 1978



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
23m Shrimp Trawler 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - -
1          2-6        7-9        10
I.  Cash Inflow
Cross Sales 2/                                     (1)    2,302.0    3,070.0   3,070.0   3,070.0
Borrower's Contribution:  20% of (4)                         900.0        -          -          -
Loan Amount:  80% of (4)                                   3.600.0              -               -
Total Cash Inflow                                (2)    6,802.0    3,070.0   3,070.0   3,070.0
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance 3/                         331.3       331.3
Fuel, Lubricants, Grease 4/                                  495.4       495.4
Fish Boxes and Water                                           3.0         3.0
Maintenance 5/                                               339.0       339.0
Vessel Insurance 6/                                          112.5       112.5
Port Fees                                                     61.0        61.0
Commission of Sales 7/                                        23.0        30.7
Miscellaneous                                                 69.0        69.0
Interest on Working Capital 8/                                24.4        24.5
Total Operating Costs                                   1,458.3    1,466.1   1,466.1   1,466.1
Estimated Private Income Tax                                  78.4       265.2      265.2      265.2
Operating Costs After Taxes                        (3)    1,536.7    1,731.3   1,731.3   1,731.3
Investment Cost                                    (4)    4,500.0         -          -        (450.0)
Debt Service 9/                                              396.2       974.6       -          -
Total Outflow                                    (5)    6,432.9    2,705.9   1,731.3   1,281.3
III.  Net Cash Flow:  (2) - (5)                            (6)       369.1       364.1   1,338.7   1,788.7
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                        (7)    2,302.0    3,070.0   3,070.0   3,070.0
Cost (3) + (4)                                     (8)    6,036.7    1,731.3   1,731.3   1,281.3
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                              (9)   (3,734.7)   1,338.7   1,338.7   1,788.7
V.  Financial Rate of Return:  33%    Rate of Return on Equity:  77%
1/  Borrower's contribution is 20% of investment cost.  General specifications and drawings are given in
Annex 3, Table 2 and Chart 18182.  Trawlers are not financed under the project.
2/  First year gross sales are 75% of full development gross sales, which assume annual live weight land-
ings of 100 tons for shrimp and 120 tons for fish; catch is sold at average ex-vessel prices of Rs
29.50/kg for shrimp (frozen) and Rs 1.00/kg for fish.
3/  Annual wage rates are Rs 72,000 for the 12-man crew, Rs 30,000 for the captain, Rs 18,000 for the mate
and Rs 24,000 for the engineer; estimate includes an additional Rs 187,000 for food, shore labor, minor
maintenance and maintenance supervision, and life insurance.
4/  Diesel fuel use is 76 1/hr for 15 hrs/day for 280 days/yr, and cost is Rs 1.10/1; engine oil use is 3%
of fuel use at Rs 10/1, and grease is 2% of fuel use at Rs 8/kg.
5/  Includes  repairs to engine (8%) for Rs 144,000, hull (5%) for Rs 125,000 and gear (35%) for Rs 70,000.
6/ Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
7/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
8/  The interest rate is 17% on working capital requirements estimated at 10% of operating costs.
9/ Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are amortized in
equal annual payments during years 2 to 6; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
April 1978



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Prolections
lOm MFV - Private 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - - Years - - - - - -
1       2-7        8-9       10
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                       (1)    129.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
Borrower's Contribution:  15% of (4)                          25.3       -         -         -
Loan Amount:  85% of (4)                                    143.7        -                   -
Total Cash Inflow                                  (2)    298.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance 3/                       42.4      48.9
Fuel, Lubricants, Grease 4/                                32.7      32.7
Ice 5/                                                      4.0       5.3
Fish Boxes and Water                                        0.5       0.5
Maintenance 6/                                             17.9      17.9
Vessel Insurance 7/                                         5.5       5.5
Port Fees                                                   6.5       6.5
Commission on Sales 8/                                      1.3       1.7
Miscellaneous                                               0.4       0.4
Interest of Working Capital 9/                              1.9       2.0
Total Operating Costs                           (3)    113.1    121.4    121.4    121.4
Investment Coist                                  (4)    169.0        -         -       (16.9)
Debt Service 10/                                           15.8      34.0       -         _
Total Cash Outflow                              (5)    297.9    155.4    121.4    104.5
III.  Net Cash Flow (2) - (5)                                (6)       0.5      17.1      51.1      68.0
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                          (7)    129.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
Cost (3) + (4)                                       (8)    282.1    121.4    121.4    104.5
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                                (9)   (152.7)    51.1        51.1      68.0
V.  Financial Rate of Return:  31%    Rate of Return on Equity:  73%
1/  Borrower's contribution is 15%.  General specifications and. drawings are given in Annex
3, Table 2 and Chart 18180.
2 'First year gross sales are 75% full development gross sales, which assume live weight
landings of 6.25 tons of shrimp and 46.75 tons of fish; catch is sold at average ex-vessel
prices of Rs 22/kg for shrimp and Rs 0.75/kg for fish in boxes of about 30 kg.
3/  :Basic wages for crew are 12% of gross sales total for the crew of 4, plus 3% for the captain;
estimate includes an additional Rs 23,000 for food, shore labor, minor maintenance and mainten-
sance supervision and life insurance.
4/  Diesel fuel use is 8 1/hr for 11 hrs/day for 250 days/yr, and cost is Rs 1.28/1; 1 liter of
,engine oil at Rs 10/1 and 1 kg of grease at Rs 8/kg is required per fishing day.
5/  Based on 1 kg of ice costing Rs 0.10/kg for each kg of catch.
6/  'icludes repairs to engine for Rs 10,200, hull for Rs 4,060 and gear for 3,600.
7/  Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
8/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
9/ rhe interest rate is 17% on working capital requirements estimated at 10% of operating costs.
10/  Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are
zmortized in equal, annual payments during years 2 to 7; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
iOm MFV - Cooperative 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - - Years - - - - - - -
1       2-7       8-9       10
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                (1)      129.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
Borrower's Contribution:    5% of (4)                    8.4      -         -         -
Loan Amount:  95% of (4)                               160.6       -        -         -
Total Cash Inflow                           (2)     298.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance 3/                  42.4     48.9
Fuel, Lubricants, Grease 4/                           32.7     32.7
Ice 5/                                                4.0       5.3
Fish Boxes and Water                                  0.5       0.5
Maintenance 6/                                       17.9      17.9
Vessel Insurance 7/                                    5.5      5.5
Port Fees                                              6.5      6.5
Commission on Sales 8/                                1.3       1.7
Miscellaneous                                          0.4      0.4
Interest on Working Capital                           1.9       2.0    _
Total Operating Costs                     (3)     113.1    121.4    121.4    121.4
Investment Cost                             (4)     169.0       -         -       (16.9)
Debt Service 10/                                     17.6      38.0       -         -
Total Cash Outflow                        (5)     299.7    159.4    121.4    104.5
III.  Net Cash Flow (2) - (5)                         (6)       (1-3)    13.1       51.1      68.0
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                   (7)     129.4    172.5    172.5    172.5
Cost (3) + (4)                                (8)     282.1    121.4    121.4    104.5
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                         (9)    (152.7)    51.1       51.1      68.0
V. Financial Rate of Return:  31%   Rate of Return on Equity:  over 100%
1/ Borrower's contribution is 5%. General specifications and drawings are given in Annex
3, Table 2 and Chart 18180.
2/ First year gross sales are 75% full development gross sales, which assume live weight landings
of 6.25 tons of shrimp and 46.75 tons of fish; catch is sold at average ex-vessel prices of
Rs 22/kg for shrimp and Rs 0.75/kg for fish in boxes of about 30 kg.
3/ Basic wages for crew are 12% of gross sales total for the crew of 4, plus 3% for the captain;
estimate includes an additional Rs 23,000 for food, shore labor, minor maintenance and main-
tenance supervision and life insurance.
4/ Diesel fuel use is 8 1/hr for 11 hrs/day for 250 days/yr, and cost is Rs 1.28/1; 1 liter of
engine oil at Rs 10/1 and 1 kg of grease at Rs 8/kg is required per fishing day.
5/ Based on 1 kg of ice costing Rs 0.10/kg for each kg of catch.
6/ Includes repairs to engine for Rs 10,200, hull for Rs 4,060 and gear for 3,600.
7/ Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
8/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
9/ The interest rate is 17% on working capital requirements estimated at 10% of operating costs.
10/  Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are
amortized in equal, annual payments during years 2 to 7; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESII FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
9m MFV - Private I/
(Rs '000)
  . . -    . . Years - - - - - - -
1       2-7       8-9       10
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                             (1)       83.7    111.6    111.6    111.6
Borrower's Contribution:  15% of (4)                 16.3       -         -         -
Loan Amount:  85% of (4)                             92.2       -         -         -
Total Cash Inflow                        (2)      192.2    111.6    111.6    111.6
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance 3/               32.6      36.7
Fuel1 Lubricants, Grease 4/        .               16.7      16.7
Ice 5/                                              2.6       3.6
Fish Boxes and Water                                0.4       0.4
Maintenance 6/                                     10.4      10.4
Vessel Insurance 7/                                 3.5       3.5
fort Fees                                           2.4       2.4
Commission on Sales 8/                              0.8       1.1
Miscellaneous                                       0.5       0.5
Interest on Working Capital 9/                      1.2       1.3
TotaJl Operating Costs                 (3)       71.1      76.6      76.6      76.6
Investment Cost                          (4)      108.5       -         -       (10.9)
Debt Service lO/                                   10.1      21.8
Total Cash Outflow                     (5)      189.7      98.4      76.6     65.7
III.  ]Yet Cash Flow:  (2) - (5)                    (6)        2.5      13.2      35.0     45.9
IV.  Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                (7)       83.7    111.6    111.6    111.6
Cost (3) + (4)                              (8)     179.6      76.6      76.6      65.7
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                      (9)      (95.9)    35.0       35.0      45.9
V. Financial Rate of Return:  34%    Rate of Return on Equity:  98%
1/  3orrower's contribution is 15%.  General specifications and drawings are given in Annex
3, Table 2 and Chart 18181.
2/  First year gross sales are 75% of full development gross sales, which assume annual live weight
'Landings of 4 tons of shrimp and 31.5 tons of fish; catch is sold at average ex-vessel prices of
Rs 22/kg for shrimp and Rs 0.75/kg for fish in boxes of about 30 kg.
3/ Basic wages are 12% of gross sales total for the 4 crew members, plus 3% for the captain; estimate
includes an additional Rs 20,000 for shore labor, minor maintenance and maintenance supervision
and life insurance.
4/  Diesel fueL use is 6.75 1/hr for 10 hrs/day for 160 days/yr, and cost is Rs 1.28/1; 1 liter of
engine oil at Rs 10/1 and 1 kg of grease at Rs 8/kg are required per fishing day.
5/ Based on 1 kg of ice costing Rs 0.10/kg for each kg of catch.
6/ Includes repairs to engine for Rs 4,550, hull for Rs 2,450 and gear for Rs 3,400.
7/  Annua-l insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
8/  Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
9/  The interest rate is 17% on working capital requirement estimated at 10% of operating costs.
10/ :Interest only is lpaid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are amortized
:Ln equal annual payments during years 2 to 7; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
JLSPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDIA
ANDU1RA PRADESII FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
9m MFV - Cooperative 1/
(Rs '000)
  - - - - - - Years - - - - - - -
1        2-7       8-9       10
I. Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                           (1)    83.7    111.6    111.6    111.6
Borrower's Contribution:   5% of (4)                             5.4        -         -         -
Loan Amount:  95% of (4)                                       103.1        -         -         -
Total Cash Inflow                                     (2)   192.2    111.6    111.6    111.6
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance 3/                          32.6       36.7
Fuel, Lubricants, Grease 4/                                   16.7      16.7
Ice 5/                                                         2.6       3.6
Fish Boxes and Water                                           0.4       0.4
Maintenance 6/                                                10.4       10.4
Vessel Insurance 7/                                            3.5        3.5
Port Fees                                                      2.4       2.4
Commission on Sales 8/                                         0.8       0.8
Miscellaneous                                                  0.5       0.5
Interest on Working Capital 9/                                 1.2       1.3
Total Operating Costs                               (3)    71.1       76.6      76.6       76.6
Investment Cost                                       (4)   108.5        -          -       (10.9)
Debt Service 10/                                              11.3      24.4        -         -
Total Cash Outflow                                  (5)   190.9    101.0        76.6       65.7
III.  Net Cash Flow:  (2) - (5)                                   (6)      1.3      10.6      35.0       45.9
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                             (7)    83.7    111.6    111.6    111.6
Cost (3) + (4)                                          (8)   179.6        76.6      76.6      65.7
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                                   (9)   (95.9)       35.0      35.0      45.9
V.  Financial Rate of REturn:  34%    Rate of Return on Equity:  over 100%
1/  Borrower's contribution is 5%.  General specifications and drawings are given in Annex
3, Table 2 and Chart 18181.
2/ First year gross sales are 75% of full development gross sales, which assume annual live weight
landings of 4 tons of shrimp and 31.5 tons of fish; catch is sold at average ex-vessel prices of
Rs 22/kg for shrimp and Rs 0.75/kg for fish in boxes of about 30 kg.
3/  Basic wages are 12% of gross sales total for the 4 crew members, plus 3% for the captain; estimate
includes an additional Rs 20,000 for shore labor, minor maintenance and maintenance supervision
and life insurance.
4/  Diesel fuel use is 6.75 1/hr for 10 hrs/day for 160 days/yr, and cost is Rs 1.28/1; 1 liter of
engine oil at Rs 10/1 and 1 kg of grease at Rs B/kg are required per fishing day.
5/  Based on 1 kg of ice costing Rs 0.10/kg for each kg of catch.
6/ Includes repairs for Rs 4,550, hull for Rs 2,45D and gear for Rs 3,400.
7/ Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
8/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
9/ The interest rate is 17% on working capital requirement estimated at 10% of operating costs.
10/  Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are amortized
in equal annual payments during years 2 to 7; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
12m Non-MFV - Private 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - Years - - - - - -
1       2-5       6-9     10
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                        (1)    23.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
Borrower's Contribution:  15% of (4)                           5.4      -        -       -
Loan Amount:  85% of (4)                                      30.6     -                 -
Total Cash Inflow                                   (2)    59.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowince, Crew Insurance 3/'                         9.5    11.5
Fish Boxes and Water                                        0.1      0.1
Maintenance 4/                                              6.5      6.5
Vessel Insurance 5/                                         1.2      1.2
Port Fees                                                   0.1      0.1
Commission on1 Sales 6/                                     0.2      0.3
Miscellaneous                                               0.3      0.3
Interest on Working Capital 7/                              0.3      0.3    _
Total Operating Costs                            (3)    18.2    20.3    20.3    20.3
Investment Cost                                     (4)    36.0      -        -       (3.6)
Debt Service 8/                                             3.3      9.8      -        -
Total Cash Outflow                                (5)    57.5    30.1    20.3    16.7
III.  Net Cash Flow:  (2) - (5)                                (6)     2.3      1.7    11.5    15.1
IV.  Financial Benefil-Cost
Benefit (1)                                           (7)    23.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
Cost (3) + (4)                                        (8)   .54.2    20.3    20.3    16.7
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                                 (9)   (30.4)   11.5    11.5    15.1
V.  Financial Rate of Return:  36%   Rate of Return on Equity:  82%
1/  Borrower's contrJibution is 15% of investment cost.  General specifications and drawings are
given in Annex 3, Table 2 and Chart 18183.
2/ First year gross sales are 75% of full development gross sales, which assume annual catch
landings of 30 tons of fish sold ex-vessel for an average price of Rs 1.06/kg in boxes of
about 30 kg.
3/  Basic crew wages are 25% of gross sales; owner-operator pays food costs of Rs 2/man/day for
a crew of 6 and captain for 250 days at sea.
4/  Annual cost of repairs is Rs 480 for hull and Rs 6,000 for gear.
5/ Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
6/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
7/  Interest rate is 17% on working capital requirement estimated at 10% of operating costs.
8/  Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are
amortized in equal annual payments during years 2 to 5; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
December 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
12m Non-MFV -Cooperative 11
(Rs '000)
       ---Years ---       
1      2-5      6-9       10
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                          (1)    23.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
Borrower's Contribution:  5% of (4)                             1.8      -        -       -
Loan Amount:  95% of (4)                                       34.2      -        -        -
Total Cash Inflow                                     (2)    59.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Allowances, Crew Insurance-3/                          9.5    11.5
Fish Boxes and Water                                          0.1      0.1
Maintenance 4/                                                6.5      6.5
Vessel Insurance 5/                                           1.2      1.2
Port Fees                                                     0.1      0.1
Commission on Sales 6/                                        0.2      0.3
Miscellaneous                                                 0.3      0.3
Interest on Working Capital 7/                                0.3      0.3
Total Operating Cost                                (3)    18.2    20.3    20.3    20.3
Investment Cost                                       (4)    36.0      -        -      (3.6)
Debt Service 8/                                               3.7    11.0       -       -
Total Cash Outflow                                 (5)    57.9    31.2    20.3    16.7
III.  Net Cash Flow (2) - (5)                                   (6)      1.9     0.6    11.5    15.1
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                             (7)    23.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
Cost (3) + (4)                                          (8)    54.2    20.3    20.3    16.7
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                                   (9)   (30.4)   11.5    11.5    15.1
V.  Financial Rate of Recurn:  36%   Rate of Return on Equity:  over 100%
1/  Borrower's contribution is 5% of investment cost.  General specifications and drawings are
given in Annex 3, Table 2 and Chart 18183.
2/  First year gross sales are 75% of full development gross sales, which assume annual catch
landings of 30 tons of fish sold ex-vessel for an average price of Rs 1.06/kg in boxes of
about 30 kg.
3/  Basic crew wages are 25% of gross sales; owner-operator pays food costs of Rs 2/man/day for
a crew of 6 and captain for 250 days at sea.
4/  Annual cost of repairs is Rs 480 for hull and Rs 6,000 for gear.
5/ Annual insurance premiums are 3.25% of investment cost.
6/ Commission to fish trader is 1% of gross sales.
7/  Interest rate is 17% on working capital requirement estimated at 10% of operating costs.
8/  Interest only is paid on the loan during the first year; loan principle and interest are
amortized in equal annual payments during years 2 to 5; interest rate on the loan is 11%.
ASPAD
December 1977



A;i.i'.i 4
1db..i; 8i
ANIDIRA PRADESHI 1 lil.l lR.13 PROJIECT
Cnsh Flow Pro  ctft,ns
Vigakimpatnam Senfood Procc2 dog Plant 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - -   - - - -  - Years - - - -           - - - - -
1            2            3         4-10          11-14          15
1.  Cash) Infilc
Gross S,les 2/                              (1)  *84,260.0   ]06,207.0   141,364.0   151,231.0   151,231.0   151,231.0
Borrower's Contribtitlon:  20% of (4)              1,531.0          -            -             -            -
Loan Aimount:  80% of (4)                          6,124.0
Total Cash Inflow                         (2)   91,915.0   106,207.0   141,364.0   151,231.0   151,231.0   151,231.0
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Cost of Raw Material 3/                         71,844.0    91,235.0   122,357.0   131,125.0
Salaries 4/                                        272.4         272.4        272.4        272.4
Wages 5/                                           216.5         271:2        357.9         382.0
Electricity 6/                                     612.0         677.7        711.3         799.2
Water 7/                                             33.0         41.4         54.6          58.3
Ice Consumption 8/                                 249.8         312.8        412.7        440.5
Packing Materials 9/                             1,048.7      1,332.1       1,744.4      1,856.7
Miaintenance, Operation 10/                          92.0        110.6        137.5         145.4
Truck Transportation Charge 11/                    396.0         396.0        396.0         396.0
Export Inspection Charge 12/                        81.1         103.0        135.2        144.6
Instarance of Property 13/                          38.3          38.3         38.3         38.3
Insurance of Products 14/                           40.0          50.8         66.5         71.1
Municipal Tax 15/                                   37.1          37.1         37.1          37.1
Market Production                                  200.0         200.0        200.0         200.0
Office Expenses 16/                                 68.8          68.8         68.8         68.8
interest on Working Capital 17/                  1,278.9      1,617.5       2,158.B      2,312.7
Estimated Corporate Income Tax                   3,471.0      4,401.0       5,893.0      6,288.0
Total Operating Cost                   (3)   79,979.6   101,165.7   135,041.54 "i635 I   14,36. 44,3C.
Investment Cost 18/                      (4)   . 7;655.0          -            -            -            -         (2,551.7)
Debt Service 19/                                   673.6      1,106.0       1,106.0      1,106.0         -
Total Cash Outflow                     (5)   88,608.2   102,271.7   136,147.4   145,742.1   144,636.1   142,084.4
III.  Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                 (6)   84,260.0   106,207.0   141,364.0   151,231.0   151,231.0   151,231.0
Cost (3) + (4)                              (7)   87,634.6   101,165.7   135,041.4   144,636.1   144,636.1   142,084.4
Met Benefit (6) - (7)                       (8)   (3,374.6)    5,041.3        6,332.6      6,594.9       6,594.9      9,146.6
IV.  Financial Rate of Return:  over 100%  Rate of Return on Equity:  over 100%
1/  Plant capacity is 23 tons per day for plate freezers, 600 tons of frozen storage, 80 tons per day of ice, 100 tons
of ice storage and 100 tons of cold storage.
2/  Annual sales starting in 1981 would be based on exports to Japan of shrimp procured as raw material from project
vessels at Visakhapatnam and from villages, plus sale of ice for Rs 2 million; FOB export prices to Japan for pro-
cessed shrimp and yields of finished product from raw materials would be Rs 80/kg and 60% for Grade 1, Rs 55/kg and
50% for Grade 2 and Rs 27/kg and 40% for Grade 3.
3/  Starting in 1991, raw material would be procured for the new plant from the 23m trawlers and 10n MFVs based on their
projected deployment schedule under the project with first year catch for each new boat at 75% of full developmenc
levels, along with 1,000 tons annually from villages; prices paid are assumed to be Rs 40/kg for Grade 1, Rs 25/kg
for Grade 2 and Rs 5 for Grade 3; catch composition is expected to be 20% Grade 1, 50% Grade 2 and 30% Grade 3 for
1Oi MFVs and villages, and 30% Grade 1 and 70% Grade 2 for 23m trawlers for shrimp catch only.
4/  Salariea of 44 permanent employees.
5/  Wages of 251 daily workers needed at full development, including processing girls, are prorated duiring the first
three years according to capacity utilizacion (procurement).
6/  Electric power cost is based on full development requirements of 3,330,000 kwh at Rs 0.24/kwh, prorated according
to capacity utilization except for power required for ice naking.
7/  Water cost is bas,-d on full development requireaents of 46,640 ki at a cost of Rs 1.25/kl, prorated according to
capacity utilization except for water required for ice making.
8/  Processing and overnight storing of shrimp in the plant requires 4,405 tons of ice per year at full development,
wbich is prorated according to capacity utiliZaLion.
9/ Master carton of 2' log conitainis 10 inner cartonts of 2 kg net weight each; cost of packing includes master cartons,
inner cartons, sheets, tapes, staples and grading slips.
10/  Includes co-prssor -d refrige-rant, salt for brine and nachinery repairs.
11/  TrAnsnortation rharvp- at Rs 400 Per day and 310 davq per trrick for 3 insulated trucks.
12/  Rs 60/tons of prodtict.
13/ Annual premium is D).5% of total investment amount.
14/  Anntial premium is 0.05% for shrimp sales valud.
ff/  Tax rate is 2% of building coat.
16/  Includes coommunications charges, stationery and u,,iforms of workers.
17/  Interest rats, is 17% ogi vworking capital whicih is estimated 10% of operating coats.
18/  See Aniex 5, table
19/  Interest only at I1t7 on the loan is, p,id during year 1, with the prin,ciple an,d interest to be amortized in years
2 to 10 in equal an: 1 payn,l ts.
ASe AD
December 1977



ANIV,X 4
Table 9
TNDIA
ANDIIRA PRADIES'S  FISIIIERlS PROJECT
Cash Flow Prj!_Etl on
Nizampatnam Seafood Processing Rlant 1/
(RE  '000)Ya
- -    -    - -- -- - Years - - - - - - - - - - - -
1           2         3-10         11-14         15
I.  Casb Inflow
Gross Sales 2/                                  (1)    6,856.7       8,933.9    9,453.4      9,453.4      9,453.4
Borrower's Contribution:  20X of (4)                      296.9               -                  -           -
Loan Amount:  80% of (4)                                1,187.6f
Total Cash Inflow                             (2)    8,341.2      8,933.9    9,453.4    9,453.4         9,453.4
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Cost of Raw Materials 3/                             5,280.0      7,040.0    7,480.0
Salaries 4/                                             138.0       138.0        138.0
Wages 5/                                                 51.8         69.4        73.5
Electricity 6/                                          108.5       119.4        124.1
Water 7/                                                  9.0          9.6         9.7
Ice Consumption 8/                                       35.5        47.3         50.3
Packing Materials 9/                                    115.4       154.0        170.7
Maintenance, Operation 10/                               17.9         22.3        24.2
Truck Transportation Charge 11/                         132.0        132.0       132.0
Export Inspection Charge 121                              6.8          9.0        10.0
Insurance of Property 13/                                 7.4          7.4         7.4
Insurance of Products 14/                                 3.1          4.1         4.5
Municipal Tax 15/                                         5.5          5.5         5.5
Market Promotion                                         50.0         50.0        50.0
Office Expenses 16/                                      25.7         25.7        25.7
Interest on Working Capital 17/                         103.4       135.4        143.5
Estimated Corporate Income                              311.6        435.8       460.9    _
Total Operating Costs                       (3)    6,401.6    8,402.7    8,907.7    8,907.7    8,907.7
Investment Cost 18/                           (4)    1,484.5         -            -           -           (93.0)
Debt Service 19/                                        130.6       214.5        214.5
Total Cash Outflow                         (5)    8,015.1       8,617.2    9,122.2    8,907.7    8,814.7
III. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                     (6)    6,586.7      8,933.9    9,453.4    9,453.4    9,453.4
Cost (3) + (4)                                  (7)     7,884.5     8,402.7    8,907.7    8,907.7    8,814.7
Net Benefit (6) - (7)                           (8)   (1,027.8)        S3l.2       545.7        545.7       638.7
IV. Finiancial Rate of Return: 531 Rate of Return on Equity: over lO1
1/  Plant capacity is 1.5 tons per day for plate freezers, 20 tons of frozen storage, 25 tons of ice per day,
and 50 tons of ice storage.
2/  Annual sales starting in 1982 would be based on exports (via Visakhapatnam) to Japan of shrimp procured
as raw material from the 9m MFVs financed under the project at Nirampatnam, plus annual sales of ice of Rs
625,000; FOB export prices to Japan for process shrimp and yields of finished product from raw materials
would be Rs 80/kg and 60% for Grade 1, Rs 55/kg and 50% for Grade 2 and Rs 27/kg and 40% for Grade 3.
3/  Starting in 1982, raw material would be procured for the plant from the 9m h'FVs based on their projected
deployment schedule under the project, with the first year catch for each new boat at 75% of full development
levels; prices paid are assumed to be Rs 40/kg for Grade 1, Rs 25/kg for Grade 2 and Rs 5/kg for Grade 3;
catch composi.ion is expected to be about 20% for Grade 1, 50% for Grade 2 and 30% for Grade 3 for shrimp
catch only.
4/  Salaries of 19 permanent employees.
5/ Wages for 66 daily workers, including processing girls, are prorated according to capacity utilization
(procurement).
6/  Electric power cost is based on full development requirenents of 517,000 kwh at Rs 0.24/kwh, prorated during
the firet two years according to capacity utilizAtion except for ice making.
7/  Water cost is based on full development requirenments of 7,760 kl at a cost of Rs 1.25/kl, prorated according
to capacity utilization.
8/  Processing and overnight storing of shrimp in the plent requtires 503 tons of ice per year at full development,
which is prorated according to capacity utilization.
9/  Master carton of 20 kg contains IU inner cartons of 2 kg niet weigiht eatch; cost of packing includes master
cartons, inner carrons, sheets, tapes, staples and grading slips.
10/  lncludes compressro  oil, refrigerent, salt for brinie and machinery repairs.
11/  Tranaportation charges at Rs 400 per day for 330 days for one insulated truck.
12/  Rs 60/too of prodUCL.
13/  Antntual premitm is 0.5% of total ievestmesit amount.
14/  Annual premium is 0.05% of shrimp sales value.
15/ l'ax rate is 2% of building rost.
16/  Incldeles communicalions charges, stationery and workers' uniforms.
17/  Interest rate is 17% on workitng capital whiclh is estimated at 10;1 of operating costs.
18/  See Annex 5, taible
19/  Interest only at ll;l is paid in year 1, with the principle aind intorest to be amortized in years 2 to 10 in
equal annual payinents.
ASI'AD
December 1977



ANtEX  4
Table 10
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Insulated T'rucks 1/
(Rs '000)
- - - - - - - Years - - - - - - -
1         2        3-5        6
I. Cash Flow
Gross Sales 2/                                         (1)   132.0    132.0    132.0    132.0
Borrower's Contribution:  15% of (4)                           26.3       -         -         -
Loan Anount:  85% of (4)                                      148.7       -         -         -
Total Cash Inflow                                    (2)   307.0    132.0    132.0    132.0
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages 3/                                                        4.8
Fuel and Ol 4/                                                23.1
Maintenance                                                    17.0
Insurance 5/                                                    5.3
Tax                                                             1.0
Miscellaneous                                                   0.4
Interest on Working Capital 6/                                  0.9      __        _ 
Total Operating Costs                                (3)    52.5       52.5      52.5      52.5
Investment Cost                                        (4)   175.0        -         -       (17.5)
Debt Service 7/                                                86.9      86.9       -         -
Total Cash Outflow                                   (5)   314.4    139.4        52.5      35.0
III.  Net Cash Flov:  (2) - (5)                                 (6)    (7.4)    (7.4)    79.5         97.0
IV.  Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                                            (7)   132.0    132.0    132.0    132.0
Cost (3) + (4)                                         (8)   227.5       52.5      52.5      35.0
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                                  (9)   (95.5)    79.5        79.5      97.0
V.  Financial Ra-.e of Return:  80X        Rate of Return on Equity:  100S
1/  A total of 4 trucks of 5 ton load capacity each to be owned by APFC, with 3 at Visakhapatnam
and 1 at Nizampatnam; trucks will be used to collect shrimp and fish from villages for APFC
Visakhapatnam, and Nizampatnan processing plants and to transport frozen shrimp from Nizampatnam
and Kakirada to Visakhapatnam for storage and export.
2/ Assumes income of Rs 400 per day for 330 days per year.
3/ Monthly sialary of driver is Rs 400.
4/ Gasoline used is 0.25 1/km for 200 km/day for 330 days/yr, at a cost of Rs 1.30/1; cost of engine
oil and grease totals Rs 1,650.
5/ Annual irLsurance premiums are 3% of the investment cost.
6/  The inteiest rate is 17% on working capital, which is estimated at 10% of operating costs.
7/  Loan pritnciple and interest are amortized in equal annual payments during years 1 and 2.
ASPAD
December 1977



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analyses
Fishing Village Access Roads 1
Without Project  /                                        With Project
Production    Value         Total         Investment   Production    Value             Total                Net
m.t.      per m.t.   E. Benefit           cost 3        m.t.  /  per m.t.2/    E. Benefit            E. Benefit
Years      (1)          (2)      (3)-(l)x(2)           (4)          (5)         (6)       (7)=(5)x(6)-(4)       (8)=(-()
Visakhapatnam                             Rs          Rs'O0O           Rs'000                      Rs           Rs'000               Rs'O00
1       13,557       1,210        16,404            6,034       13,557        1,210         10,370               (6,034)
2      - 13,557       1,210       16,404            6,o34       14,370        1,220         11,497               (4,907)
3       13,557       1,210        16,404                -       16,095        1,230         19,797                3,393
4       13,557       1,210        16,404                -       18,509        1,240         22,951                6,547
5       13,557       1,210        16,404                -       18,509        1,250         23,136                6,732
6-20     13,557       1,210        16,404                -       18,509        1,250         23,136                6,732
Economic Rate of Return: 42%
East Godavari
1        9,000       1,570        14,130            4,410        9,000        1,570          9,720               (4,860)
2        9,000        1,570       14,130            4,410        9,540        1,600         10,854               (3,276)
3        9,000       1,570        14,130                -       lo,685        1,630         17,417                3,287
4        9,000       1,570        14,130                -       12,287        1,660         20,396                6X266
5        9,000       1,570        14,130                -       12,287        1,690         20,765                6,635
6-20      9,000       1,570        14,130                -       12,287        1,720         21,133                7,003
Economic Rate of Return: 52%
Guntur
1   3,215        1,270        4,o83            4,769         3,215       1,270           (685)               (4,768)
2        3,215        1,270        4,o83            4,769         3,408       1,270           (440)              (4,523)
3        3,215       1,270         4,o83                -        3,816        1,326          5,o60                  977
4        3,215        1,270        4,083                -         4,389       1,354          5,942                1,859
5        3,215        1,270        4,083                -        5,047        1,382          6,975                2,892
6-20      3,215        1,270        4,083                -         5,047       1,410          7,116                3,033
Economic Rate of Return: 23%
Overall Rate of Return: 40%
Annual repair and maintenance (R&M) is expected to be about 2% of investment cost, but this has been disregarded because benefits of              M
roads to general public are expected to far outweigh the R&M.                                                                                     a,
2  Based on estimates provided by the Department of Fisheries, Andhra Pradesh.                                                                       m x
>/ Financial cost (Annex 4, Table 3) less 2% tax.                                                                                                     - >
As a result of improved access to markets, production is expected to increase by 6% for year 2, 12% for year 3 and 15% for year 4 for
all three Districts and reach plateau, except Guntur where a 15% increase is projected for year 5.
J Access roads provided under the project are expected to enhance the average value per unit of fish landed because larger shares of
the catch will be marketed in fresh condition instead of in salted or otherwise cured forms.
May 1978
ASPAD



INDIA
ANDHR~A PRADESI FISHERFIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Composite Cost/Benefit Analysis for Visakhapatnam Harbor
Economic Costs                                               Economnic Benefits
Harbor ~/ 23mMFV %f   iO  MFV ~/ Seafood Planit T/ Hrtor ~/ 23m MFV  1/ iO  MFV ~J Seafoo3d Plant 9/
Years      CUL)          (C2)          (C3)             (c4)                (Bi1)        (B2)           (B3)             -B4
---------- ---------------innRs '000 -------------------------
1      10,964              -       3,200            2,781 
2      31,302        24,4i0        4,ooo             2,781                                                                -
3      21,119        24,41o1       4,800             1,390                             6,o69        1,065             1,575
4+           -       24,410        5,600                 -               1,909        12,138        2,3,30            3,151
5            -       24,410        6,400                 -               3,818        24,276        4,260             6,303
6            -       49,363             --                               5,455        36,41-4       6,390             9,454
7-15           -             -            -                -               5,455        60,690       10,650            15,758
16            -             -       3,200                 -               5,455        60,690       10,650            15,758
17            -       24,410        4,000                 -               5,455        60,690       10,650            15,758
18            -       24,410        4,8oo                 -               5,455        60,690       10,650            15,758
19            -       24,410        5,600                 -               5,455        60,69o       10,650            15,758
20     (21,306)       (66,756)     (3,306)                                5,455        60,690       l0,650            15,758
Base Economic Rate of Return        28%
All Costs Up 10%                    26%
All Costs lip 20%                   24%
All Benefits Dnwn 10%               26%
All Benefits flown 20%              23%
Costs Up 20% Benefits Down 20%   .19%
~/Investments in harbor works, fishing vessels, and seafood plant are regarded as a composite undertaking.
Costs/benefits involving foreign exchange have been calculated at a shadow rate Rs. 10.00 to US$1.00. Economic
costs of investment and economic benefits are other financial costs and benefits net of relevant duties and taxes.
~/Economic costs derived by deduicting 2% taxes from financial costs.
'/Based on financial cost less 5% duty on imported vessels and shadow exchange rate of Rs 10.00:US$1.00.  Deploy-
ment of 5 vessels each fcr years 2 to 5 and 10 vessels for year 6.
~/Financial costs less 5% taxes.  Deployment of 20 units for year 1, 25 for year 2, 30 year 3, 35 year 4, and
1+o for year 5 (a total of 150).
5/Based on financial costs less relevant taxes amounting to about 15% of investment costs.
~/Expected revenues of wharfage and port fees from vessels using the harbor. These appear as items in
operating costs of fishing vessels.
7/ Catch is expected to achieve -full development level in year 7, and it is assumed that 60% of the full
development catch will be achieved in year 6, 40% in year 5, 20% in year 4, and 10% in year 3.  The economic
value of the catch is derived by applying the shadow exchange rate to the gross sales which are largely ex-
portable shrimp (see Annex 5, Table 1 for Cash Flow Projections). A fleet of 30 project 23m M-FVs projected.
~/Catch projections and application of the shadow exchange rate as per 23m MFVs. See Aiinex 5, Table 2 for Cash
Flow Projections. A fleet of 150 lOin MFIVs projected.
2/ Economic benefits of the Seafood Plant have been calculated by introducing the shadow exchange rate to the 
cost of exportable shrimp raw material as well an gross sales, and deducting corporate iLnc=me taxez associated
with shrimp processing (Annex 5, Table 8 for Cash Flow Projections for Visakhapatnam Seafood Plant).
May 1978



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Composite Cost/Benefit Analysis for Kakinada Harbor f
Economic Cost                                        Economic Benefit
Harbor  /   23m MFV      lm MFV           Harbor  /   23m MFV S/  1Om MFV  /   Existing MFV
Years     (C1)          (C2)          (C3)            (Bl)          (B2)         (B3)             (B4)
-    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rs '000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1      11,587             -        3,200                -
2      24,935             _        4,ooo                -             -            _               -
3      24,055        14,646       4,800                 _        3,034         6,069           1,500
4           -        14,646        5,600                -        6,o69        12,138           3,000
5           -        14,646       6,400             1,609       12,138        24,276           6,ooo
6           -        14,646            -           2,413        18,207        36,414           9,000
7           -        14,643            _           4,022        30,345        60,690          15,000
8-15          -             -                         4,022       30,345        60,690          15,000
16          -             -        3,200            4,022       30,345        60,690          15,000
17          -             -       4,000             4,022       30,345        60,690         15,000
18          -             -       4,8oo            4,022        30,345        60,690         15,000
19          -        14,146        5,600           4,022        30,345        60,690          15,000
20    (25,980)      (13,181)      (3,306)           4,022       30,345        6o,690          15,000
Base Economic Rate of Return                45%   -
All Costs Up 10%                            42%
All Costs Up 20%                            39%
All Benefits Down 10%                       42%
All Benefits Down 20$                       38%
All Costs Up 20% All Benefits Down 20%    33%
Investments in harbor works and fishing vessels are regarded as a composite undertaking.
Costs/benefits in foreign exchange have been calculated at a shadow rate Rs 10.00 to US$1.00.
Economic costs of investment and economic benefits are otherwise financial costs and benefits
net of relevant duties and taxes.
Economic costs derived by deducting 2% taxes from financial costs.
Based on financial cost less 5% duty on imported vessels and shadow exchange rate of Rs l0.00:US$1.00.
Deployment of 3 vessels each for years 3 to 8 (a total of 15) is projected to come into operation
by private sector operators using their own funds.
Financial costs less 5% taxes. Deployment of 20 units for year 1, 25 year 2, 30 year 3, 35 year 4, and
40 for year 5 (a total of 150).
s Expected revenues of wharfage and port fees from vessels using the harbor. These appear as items in
operating costs of fishing vessels.
Catch is expected to achieve full development level in year 7, and it is assumed that 60% of the full
development catch will be achieved in year 6, 40% in year 5, 20% in year 4, and 10% in year 3. The
economic value of the catch is derived by applying the shadow exchange rate to the gross sales which
are largely exportable shrimp (see Annex 5, Table 1 for Cash Flow Projections). A fleet of 15 non-
project 23m MFVs are expected.
/ Catch projections and application of the shadow exchange rate as per 23m MFVs.  See Annex 5, Table 2
for Cash Flow Projections. A fleet of 150 project lm MFVs projected.
Incremental economic benefits are expected from the existing fleet of about 300 MFVs, and estimated
to be Rs 50,000 per vessel at full development. As these vessels would be operating from the new
harbor closer to the fishing grounds, they would save on the cost of operation and increase gross
sales as a result of increased fishing time.
May 1978
ASPAD



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
ciomposite Cost/Benefit Analysis for Nizampatnam Harbor
Economic Cost                                           Economic Benefit
Harbor  ~  Vessels  ~  Seafood.Plant 375Hror7   9m MFV 6/   Sing V. 7/   SaodPat8
Years      (Cl)          (c2)            (C3)                (Bl) -       (B2)           (B3)              (B4)
1       1,088            -
2   2,984            -                                                                 
3,109       2,530            1,660                              285            69                 25
725       2,710                                               570           138                 51
5           -        2,710                                200          1.,140          276                103
6           -                                             305          1,710           414                154
7-18           -           -                                305          2,850           690                257
19           -        2,530                                305          2,850           690               257
20      (3,356)      (2,277)                               305          2,850           690                257
Base Economic Rate of Return               15%
All Costs UP 10%                           16%
All Costs Up 20%                           14%
All Benefits Down 10%                      16%
All Benefits Down 20%                      14%
All Costs Up 20% All Benefits Down 20%   11%
Investments in harbor works, fishing vessels, and seafood plant are regarded as a composite undertaking.
Costs/benefits in foreign exchange have been calculated at a shadow rate Rs 10.00 to US$1.00. Economic
costs of investment and economaic benefits are otherwise financial costs and benefits net of relevant
duties and taxes.
~/Economic costs derived by deducting 2% taxes from financial costs.
~/Deployment of 5 vessels each for years 2 to 5 and 10 vessels for year 6.
Based on financial costs less relevant taxes amounting to about 15% of investment cost.
~/Expected revenues of wharfage and-port fees from vessels using the harbor. These appear as items in
operating costs of fishing vessels.
Catch is expected to achieve full development level in year 7, and it is assumed that 60% of the full
economic value of the catch is derived by applying the shadow exchange rate to the gross sales of gm MFVs
which are largely from exportable shrimp (see Annex 5, Table 4 for Cash Flow Projections).
7]Same as financial benefits (Annex 5, Table 6).
Economic benefits of the Seafood Plant have been calculated by introducing the shadow exchange rate
to the cost of exportable shrimp raw material as well as gross sales, and deducting corporate income
taxes associated with shrimp processing (Annex 5, Table 9 for Cash Flow Projections for Visakhaptnam
Seafood Plant).
May 1978
AS PAD



ANNEX 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements 1/
IBRD FY
and Quarters            Disbursements               Cumulative Disbursements
--- --------US$1000
September, 1978                50                               50
December, 1978                 50                              100
March, 1979                   100                              200
June, 1979                    300                              500
September, 1979               522                            1,022
December, 1979                822                            1,844
March, 1980                   822                            2,666
June, 1980                  1,122                            3,788
September , 1980            1,457                            5,245
December, 1980              1,657                            6,902
March , 1981                1,657                            8,559
June, 1981                  1,857                           10,416
September,, 1981            1,612                           12,028
December , 1981             1,412                           13,440
March, 1982                 1,212                           14,652
June, 1982                  1,012                           15,664
September , 1982              156                           15,820
December, 1982                156                           15,976
March, 1983                   312                           16,288
June , 1983                   312                           16,600
September , 1983              355                           16,955
December , 1983               355                           17,310
March, 1984  2/               190                           17,500
June , 1984                     -                           17.500
1/ Credit is expected to become effective July 31, 1978.
2/ Closing date is assumed to be September 30, 1984.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in Project File
A.   Reports on Studies in the Sector or Sub-Sector
1.   Exploited Marine Fishery Resources of India:  A Synoptic Survey
with Comments on Potential Resources. Central Marine Fisheries
Resources Institute, Bulletin 27, March 1976.
2.   "Fisheries Resources of the Indian Economic Zones", P. C. George
et. al., draft paper for presentation to Indian Ocean Fisheries
Commission meeting, Cochin, October 1977.
3.   Report of the National Commission on Agriculture, Part VIII,
Fisheries, Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation, New Delhi, 1976.
4.   Statistics of Marine Products Exports, 1976, The Marine Products
Export Development Authority, Cochin, 1977.
B.   Reports Related to the Project
Project Reports
1.   Integrated Marine Fisheries Development at Visakhapatnam (Stage II):
Main ]?roject - Harbor and Associated Facilities; Sub-project -
Facilities for other Fishing Villages. Department of Fisheries,
GOAP, September 1977.
2.   Integrated Development of Traditional Fishing in Northern Region
of East Godavari District (Gadimoga - Pentakota). Department of
Fisheries, GOAP, September 1977.
3.   Integrated Marine Fisheries Development at Nizampatnam:  Main
Project - Harbor and Associated Facilities; Sub-project -
Facilities for other Fishing Villages. Directorate of Fisheries,
GOAP, September 1977.
Visakhapatnam Harbor
1.   Fishing Harbor Project, Stage II Development Visakhapatnam.
Visakhapatnam Port Trust, October 1976.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
2.   Visakhapatnam Port Fishing Harbor Project Report.  Howe India
Pvt. Ltd., Consulting Engineers, July 1971.
3.   Visakhapatnam Outer Harbor Inauguration Report.  Visakhapatnam
Port Trust, December 1976.
4.   Administration Reports and Annual Accounts, 1974 and 1975.
Visakhapatnam Port Trust.
Kakinada Harbor
1.   Kakinada Port Outer Fishing Harbor Project.  Director of State
Ports, GOAP, October 1977.
2.   Development of Kakinada Port, Efficiency of Sand Trap and
Development of Small Boar Harbor. Specific Note No. 1652,
Central Water and Power Research Station, Poona, April 1977.
3.   Design of the Breakwater Proposed at Kakinada Port.  Specific
Note No. 1703, Central Water and Power Research Station, Poona,
September 1977.
Nizampatnam Harbor
1.   Fishery Harbor at Nizampatnam, Volume I, Project Report on
Engineering Investigations, Design and Abstract Estimate.
Department of Fisheries, GOAP, September 1977.
2.   Preliminary Survey of Fishing Harbors, India Nizampatnam
Engineering Survey Soil Investigations and Design. Scandia
Consult International, Gothenburg, Sweden, 1971, for FAO.
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
1.   Articles of Association of the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries
Corporation Pvt., Ltd.
2.   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation Unaudited Balance Sheets
and Profit-and-Loss Accounts for 1975/76 and 1976/77.
3.   Brief Note on the Boat Building Yard (Kakinada).  Andhra
Pradesh Fisheries Corporation, September 1977.
4.   Six-Year Perspective Plan on Fresh Fish Marketing.  Andhra
Pradesh Fisheries Corporation, September 1977.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
C.   Working Papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps
1.   Maps oE Visakjapatnam, East Godavari and Guntur Districts
showing village roads.
2.   Mission Consultant's Report on Harbors (I. B. Meeke).
3.   Mission Consultant's Report on Vessels (Cy Hamlin).
4.   Vessel Blueprints.



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Government of India
Fisheries
Organization Chart
| GCoverm  nht of Ini 
Minirtry of Agiculture        MunturV ofRCseaech
|   and lUionf 
iecretary                                                             S |r5ury                        Marine Productt
DtrD rtment of Agr,cuCture                                            Deplrtment of Aeericultumie ExPott Divelopment
and Rurai Owvrlopment                                                 R rit Wennr Edurnion                      AuthoritY
Additional 6ScretarY
and FisheriesB                    W                               Ar Ficultural R eearch
Mar  B |  ine
Joint Secrettrry                       ~&                                iebsRoete ch
F,sberies                                                                 Intuuo
Central Inland
I                                       _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fisheries Retatch
_=    [   i   |                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nstituto
i                                  { Inbnd FisheriEeensi|n| Fisheries    anur                            I  
|  EYDIOrAtCrY    l      ~~Central Institute of                       Central Instituteot
H    Fisheries Proiec   | Fishwies Educ.ti.o                          Fisheries TechnoloogY
Pro-investment
_   unvey of Fishing                      _    Inland Fisheries Training Unit
H,rtxors Project
PelWk FishNb,               u   ~~~~Regional Training C ntnl for Intend Fiihorier
| IFAO/UNOP)   |eEtninrannCne
_ Cntr.l Fisheri  EeniTiigCnt
Frllsh Wne11tr ri*h Flrm (Demonstration)
iBrackish Water Fish Form (Demonstrtion)
World Ebank-1Ei462



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Project Related Ministries
Fisheries and State Ports Departments
Organization Chart
Council of Ministers
Chief Minister
|Ministers of|
j3.Eaveti   Rej                FinancE               Public Works              Fisheries 3url Development
D                               |n  Special Secrery and screttry
w4nns and                                Comrmisioner                                 S cret ry                               Transport, Roads
R-lDeZeoprns.t                          Institutional Finance                      Finance and Planning                          a,rd Buildings
O uly Si                                                   pt       oar                               euvScretary               D   eputy  Secretaryrtity 
elForests F sSresu[y                           jinance                                                  (Planning)               Deputy Secretarv
| Ass seart Siecrexar7]|                 | Assistnt Secretary            Assittant Secretary
F iFisne ites}       _(_  _  v    |        t(u                        (Expenditures)            Assinant Secreteny           Assistant Secretary
I                                  l l Rurai Development
ooirectofishies    L                                                                                                                                       r _ -  -t-
World Bank - 18391



INDIA
ANDRHA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Government of Andrha Pradeph
Department of Fisheries
Orfganization Chart
.SS
NEW WVING TO BE ESTABLISHE4D UNDEOF THE PROJECT
Adn,rrttrattct.  rliteg                                                  Add       P.an|-t
Deut Dcto        DpuyD,tcr                euyDrcorDpt  retor                               euyD,r.ror     I       eut IO: Detcto
Geleral  brogf ms                       Plaoney a dProlems  |                    f~~~~~~~~~~~~Fntet C.c                    Ftettee'y        Carelto       Fttev             er
l                                                            o t   ~~~~~--      -     --       -      ---,j
_._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                           IV                          D"t
DISInCI  Oittttct              Icytitete                DIRT CtE *~f        OW".eat.c        Ue,           r.act jt                      Oeu.toU..t
W.rid teth183900



INDIA
ANDRHA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
RebMtlon Bet.   Dlstrict Adminiration and Fi .eries Departm. ent
Organization Chart
Chief Mister nd
Cucil of Mnitrer      I
|  Slcrear V Fishsails s{ SirlrRtnl}                                                                                                     Slrtrpnhvt
ttnd RU- d Dtwolop-nent                                                                        'SeDrslary mentyac Secretary
District Zille Perteeced Committee
| Assisana Director                                                                      J    District Collcton                         Eleeted Otllciti                            0111ct  Ececte
Vielshepnarss       r1--                                  -       _                         All Depaerunerrt Heeds                                         _____^                     Eglei
Vis khvttgidm   X                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fishteries Assistant Director.
keccutiuf Engineers
Fisheeites                          Frilteries                          Fisheries                                                                                                ;;;
Inspector tlliInspector (1)l|                                           Insp ector tIll  5       e      s      c      r      a      t      a      r      V            A      s     s     s      n     i     d    n     c    e    .|
Inland Fisheries             _     SFDA FrogremV J                        Anenastalti
Visaklrapetnetn                     Visalkhapastrem   j                     Vill;oge                                                                              _______________________________
Di|flcck DZ elc Ptent OliC-                     1
Asnistente 121           In~~~~~spetrit                       npetrIiutntt DOf.cerDi Blck CDunlopretOfie                                                                Elnsctd Memberas
Fish                         B-ffoat Loan Program5                -|         VikkApAllage[                   9          }            0lFhm F iset -E-nte-nent- Oflictrd                                   Irtiv  ,                .         i 3
Vi kakhapatnam                                                                                   [         nginelers               _t
[ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ih,  A.muntb Dih| |-
Fid-S                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fisrtnies
'       Ins pector tll
1.1.'n"d Fir,-.1   DA WollramFish Seed Ferry 
|kAssisatkrtth 21 pt.                    Vijavensperem                                                [                        Villarge Paochtyiet
j    Field Workers  L  _ S      Ececutine O          klicer              Elected Members          - _  _- _- _-ic.
FhFitrFis hdFisheus 13i                                |         |      d Stell fron                                                 I F                        Enyeer
iilNspctor                                         2Sf I                       fI  r alltots                                            I
tJ Place aerene are ilottrative of tvptcVl District  nNosilta.. [                                                                                         S.
V/ Smell Fetmers Droeloprent Agency                                          F fish ESeed fa-World BPnk - t83



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
Proposed Organization by Functional Unit
Chuirman & Board of Directors
MaaigDrector
Project                                                            F   inancil
Management                                                              Management
Unit                                                                    Unit
Vi                                                            K tp nlmada                                                  Niz rn P tnam
Yiukha,o Mnage                                                General ManNger                                          AlUt d nroral Mane Wr
Projectxect Wgem Project Executive                                                                                           Proaect Exeutanae
Project z cutiv                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~R,gistrrd Office)
|Freezing                         rMarketingyFreezingFr                                                                             znMwktdi rt   |sit
and-  Ice             Pand                                         Pand                                                           ri  I.             Pand   rcrnn 
Pnlant                             Prorure- Icesho Pin                                                                         lplant                              Prcrnsnt
(Nellore)          _     ~~Expot                        rdmn,ad_                                                                                         Otec
Hvderabad                                                                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mretnter                                 xin nco   
Inland~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n Prcue
Podala, and        Markett'ng                  MAd~l                               BardkMtters
w  Workshop,                                                                                         Banki- 18381
| Fithing   l            i ~~~~~Slipway                  Fishing Gear,                      Extension
| OPeratlons  _  _   nd             |            ~~~     ~     ~    ~~~~and         a  nd
( 23 m Trawlers)|                    Workshop                    Transpr                            Outreach
Vehiee
|Extension                        |Accounts         |
|and             | _          _      and                     | Brackish                          |Accounts         |        Note: Functional Units do not necesswily
Outreach                             Administration |             ae  ih_                          ad|imply separate or eqtual mantiepment
| Farm         ||Administration |positions
| Pl.rming r                      r         
| 'and                              Personnel
| Developmnen
I       I                I ~~~~~~~~Secretary
i    nterna!    |_           _       to|
Audit                          |Board Maners  |World Bank -18381



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Schemmiic Drawing of iO Meter Mechanized Fishing Vessel
o                                                                                                                                                                                    TYPiCAL PAR1TICULAAS
t                                                                                                                                                                              &A.I OW AA    10.33 n,(33'- IO")
o    1     2    3       4     6    6      7    a                                                                                                                               a"1"            2.90mIel - B")
l                                                                                                                                                                  MA.RMu, -       1.14..1--  9JJ
Scl.                                                                                                                                                                  C-- .



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Schematic Drawing of 9 Meter Mechanized Fishing Vessel (pablo Boat)
T     t    F h "s                ! JFish HoI 
0    1         ~~~~~2
+  Meters                                        JTYPICAL PARTICULARS
Length Over All    9m  (30')
2      3 ox nat6 scale        e10                                         Draft, Maximum      2.6Om 18'q6"
Shaft Horsepo,I 40 T-7
Crew    sor    40-s8
World Banfk - ISI81



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH F ISHER I ES PROJECT
Schematic Drawing of Non-Mechanized Fishing Nava
I   I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~W_
TYPICAL PARTICULARS
O       1       2       3                                                            Length Over All        12m (39' -4"1
I     _ |       I       g  Meters                                                   Beam                  3.00m (10'-0")
Draft, Maximum       0.6 m (2' - 0")
o    2   4   6   8   10                                                              Crew                    7
I   I I  I    I    I  I   I  I   I    Feet
Approximate Scale
World Bank - 18183



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
&Sluntic Drawing of 23 Meter Shrimp Trawler
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W_0I
rt] | ~~~~~~~Fish HaJd                                                                                                          WI 
t~~~ -t- t  --
2                                Meters                                                                            TYPICAL PARfTICULARS
t   t   1   6  8    11t    12    t4    16                                       ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Length Over All  23m    {5-"
Approxima,                       Fee                                                                       LCrthoe rl
Draft maximum          7.2rm 123 -6b')
Shaft Horsepowe,       8    c-18182
WOrld Bhnk - 18182



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                                 1978                  1979                  1980       2          1981       3         1982       4           19B3      5
HARBOR WORKS
VISAKHAPATNAM                                                 - -_ - -- -
Jetties and Repair Facilities                                            I-
Buildings, Roads and Services                                            l                                          -
KAKINADA                                                                                                                                            Legend
Breakwater                                                                                -     _________--indicates planning.
Jetties                                                                                                                                            investigations, designs and
Buildings Roads and Services                                                                                                                        procurement.
Dredging                                                                                                                                                  indicates execution
NIZAMPATNAM                                                - - - -    _
Dredging
Quay
Buildings Roads and Services
VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS AND WATER SUPPLY  - --_
Village Roads
Villaye Water Supply (Nizampatnam)
FISHING VESSELS
10 Meter MFVs
9 Meter MFVs
Non- MFVs
SEAFOOD PROCESSING PLANTS AND TRUCKS    _  _
Visakhapatnam
Nizampatnamr
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Estuarial Specialists  3 Man Months                     
Naval Architect        6 man months
Training Overseas
Wooden Trawlers
World Bank - 18367



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Harbor Construction
1978                1979                1980                1981                 1982
ACTIVITY
Year 0              Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4
VISAKHAPATNAM                                       _  _  _
Preliminary Works
Additional Jetties
Completion of Slipway Facility
Dredging
Net Drying Area
Land Acquisition
Buildings
Roads, Drains and Culverts
Power and Water Supply
KAKINADA                                                  _ _ _ _
Breakwater with Road
Land Jetty (10 m boats)
Outfitting - Berthing Jetty (10 m boats)
Berthing Jettys (10 m boats)
Trawler Jetty (23 m boats)
Auction Halls
Dredging Channel & Basin
Boat Repair Facility
Buildings
Roads and Drainage
Power, Water and Fuel Supply
NIZAMPATNAM
Dredging
Execavation
Revetments
Quay and Ramp
Auction Hall
Surfacing Port Area
Buildings
Approach Road (Swamp)
Approach Road (High Ground)
Marine Facilities (Lights, Workshop)
Power, Water and Lighting
indicates execution
_ _- -indicates planning, investigation,designs,procurement and mobilization.                                           World Bank -18416



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
V iSAKMAPATNAM
Schematic Plan of
Seafood Processing Plant
[    RESIDENCE          1              1                        0  2 4  6 8 10
13.5 X 16.5                     I                                         METERS
ELEVATOR &  ICESTORAGE                             SCALE 1 - 1:40
CHUTE         160Tons                               Room dimensions in motors
6X6           16 X 10
OFFICE
10.5 X 2.5
/        SECOND FLOOR PLAN             /
74     /        _
/                                     ,/ 
IDINING                                // GENERATO
_ ROOM                                I       FROZENSTORAGE                         6 X 6
/        ~~~150 Tons/
WAITING                                                  18 X9                    /
FROZEN STORAGE       /                                       /
300 Tons       /                                       /                     WORK
Trr _   18 X 18   z                    /IMACHINE ROOM         SHOP
z .  /        FROZEN SlTORAGE          /    18 X 
s  /                150 Tons           /
/ ll  ll ll     l.   18BXl9           /                          STORES
/                     /                           ~~~~~~~~~~~6X4
BATH AND                         /f 
DRESSING ROOMS                                            - (--- 
8ATH AND  g   PLATE    2  _   /  10 X 8     IoX8                                AUCTION HALL
PLATE
IFREEZERSa 
PROCESSING HALL               FREEFISH                              E MS              . _
18 X 40         1                     L     STORAGE   I          ICE MAKING ROOM 80Tons
lo x 16
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~14
ICE                        10:   a                     IOX- 4
ICRUSHER
-   -   r _________L  -  -  -  -  -  - =              __    ,
U   GROUND FLOOR PLAN
/ QUAW
World Bank -18229



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
N IZAMPATNAM
Schematic Plan
Seafood Processing Plant
23                                                  0    2    4      6    8
. .                      METERS
SCALE 1 - 1: 10
- .----------4                                             Room dimensions in meters
DINING    OFFICE                   MACHINE
ROOM      5 X 4                    ROOM
5 X     _4                         5X 14
WAITING  STORE    FROZEN
ROOM    ROOM       STORAGE
3X4      3X4       6 X 4           ANTI
ROOM
20                      RER                         ICE TANK
PLATE ril                  9 X 10
FREE ZER -
-BOYS BATH AND DRESSING
AUCTION
PROCESSING                                                                                      HL
HALL L4
10 X 10
COLD & ICE
STORAGE
GIRLS BATH AND DRESSING                5 X 10
.5
iQUAY\                                    ___
World Bank - 18228






77'              78               79-              zoo       !        818 82'                             831              84'               85
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT                                         
e   J <\   1  A D I L A 8 A D  g   .                         Project Districts and  Areas
19- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gd'ova 
wt     /     a                       \>_54;          f~~~ PR ADES5H                        \             
N NI Z A M AB A D r'  K A R iMGN OGDAAR                                                        SR   I K A K     U L       ste/
A K-   -  D,A Kd riNs
..J-  ............ /                  WARANGAL                                            VISAKHAP|
g ~~~~~~~~HY D ER AYBA D                         N A L. G O N D A_,             XG OD A 
-17                                                                                                   '  _g j   WEST \i<;  We ztit
(4-)  iV-t  _    /   )     r       )>XA        S      S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G ODAV AR Ij, Q iitod            OP   City 0,,i Hb,loor Sites           -
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~o$ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     0 Ci
F~~~~~~~~ ><GAR                                               'IQ  dot  Cs
-  BV o n-/fichihi g o tr eo m   - - i n t e r fero un a i B   n iSorie                                                      o  o
<                                                                     tpoQ               c4 M4 T          |
1-         X            K U R N O O L                  O NG O LE    )                                  Bci,
z5   <S                                          A                                                             of
A AN A N T A PU R    g                   N E L L OR E )                                                                     .y N  .n  - O
77         l      PA                                                                                                                                              K I S  TA 8  -8 \    C   H   I   N   A
* J        I  3;4 |           D\0 120  103 1S te                                                                 27
X       /           (    ~~~~~~~~~~C H I r     T ws 0                                                                        N.derhds e 
Bangolr-e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o                                                               Ba of |  hL % ;\bllft4Rt  o l
77'               76,               7q'                                                     82 t  e   terwa






IBRD123252R
r   CCP           30CC E            3 100 E         32000E           33 000 E00                       3500              000              7003                             39000E          40000            41000        MAV TV1
O,RI0 ADOPTED S PROJECT METRIC GRID
INDIA                                       50
ANDHRA: PRADESH FISHERIES:POJC
YISAKHAPATNAM
Propowe4 Hoo   mp  "rov,ents qr4 Foc- ifiiti,
2900 N-
Stage flBilig
17T'T0f  Cuts and Fills
2-Beld Contaurs
Shoreline
2709 04
~~~~~~k Z h                                                                                    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 N-
nod not bel:mow ntOnwwntr
p                                                                                                                       :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  IEast Breakwater3
P     1      ~~~CHINA
INDIA
0                                                                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AKCHAFATNAM   JTOS
LA-K



I



IBRD) 13253R
5                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1978
-2                         ~~~~~~~~2,4                                                INDIA
-                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
KAKINADA
'S  -~~~  ~jj  _________              -    ~~~~m-~~jr~z~~                   -r   r      ~     ~                   Proposed  New  Fishing Horbor
-Project Structures
0  0   ~~~~~~~~~~~o[7                                        C~~~~~~~~~~TTT   Cuts ond Fills
o   ,.  2'  t                     H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reiusPojc 
o ~                                                                                     revous  rojct ood (Not funded by Bank)
Shoreline
K               000~~~~~~~~~~
Eo ~~~~~~oT" 00
-2                                           24APPRC2A(II 0:ANt4TEL FrR TRAWLERCCOUGE T'C 40,,
/                    ~~~~~Plan of Proposed Breokwater ond Harbor Facilities-2
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
Location  PlanRos
-0  -                                                                                                                                      -'''-  Railroads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alrcd
Previous Project Rooads
/                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Not funded by Bank)
I                                                                             ,yPTovvsed BTeoko.otoo                              *, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soind and Mud Flots
ti~l,h~eHo,L,o~ Godovori Point
.,,d or. biowMe, Mes Vee  eis SprinsTid.s           C                                                IC~'C
TC,,/,C-    OCYI                               CHINACiyo
V/odd 08554 Stoffa,CI,ooNfs, ~ ~ ~    ~        Cty o
C,-I,o,5,,o,,04KAKINADA
bOdt,A,,o,0,, 10000 PAKISTAN,                                                                                                                                         V -
00 01 00  20700                            KAK,NAD
o  100  200  -  KAKN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             
METERS           0   I~~~~~~S~ AKAKIOETR



I



IBRD 13254R
3130 N                 / !   < /30000                               29000 N                                         2108                              0800                                                   MARCH 1978
Proposed  New  Fishing Hoarbor            Survey of Harbor Entrance
080770finAesncclesf e cluSlvOr / @', O *  707                               11        C      (3       o                     50              00         Bed C8ntOro on d Location of Training Wolfs
Ng;PAM :D  W)e X  tARs    aS                                                                                                                                                           0                                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5  c
.7 000;g        ,7$                                                 lt' 1                                  200
e, 4>,y                     b,                              -/                                                                                              ,5ET/ERS
\ ~ ~~~~~ w                 of3  N  ____   /  _   __      _     _ _ _->       -S>  Kdb:11r                 z              0808r02Sw8                                                                                            200-80A 1e1 r.  eeos Eutdt0srsrdou
0,
zsooE~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 \                ,' 000~ 30,                                                                                                   0 2 00 ....... 1N 2N\ 0N
Z \ 2 3s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 8 00                       Jo  0 w *0,2,,,m e||Mo e       
'5770 ~           ~             t<.W 070                                           50 07,q00 0z                                                 'I.-t                    N    H    A P AD S                IH RE             R    JC
~~. + 3N, NIZAMPATNAM                 /      ,00                                                       >7o                                                                                                                                   80
K:  -~~~~~~~~
or   Proposed   Approoch  Rood  ,\  --  - --tX _| __- ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \' s ~~~~ h \ i (Being Implemented-                                          P     r      ,,,.,7.00or  to  er Fosooc   97j
.MANGROVEA0rMEGRID ANDHRAD1 PRADET  ESH  FIHEIEIPOJC
NIZAMPATNAM       s0 N            ooo s    .       3so N             DOD             350 N            200                  .0                                                                         A
VI7LLAGE                                                                                                   0'PopsdNw    abr  n                                                                                              aclte
Locotion  Plan                           ,~~~~~----     ->          70                         d.,   1                                                             rosdAproc  Rood.1                   Ali. I- Red Contours in Meters
0  soo            iooo                                                                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.  008
077777  45700     48000            00000            00800.  ,       000 K             0008SH RISKRO                                                                                                               EC






To Srikokulo-
AFHAISA                                                                              INDIA
A~~~~~~~~              H I      AN                    N A                                                                                          Kop  la             f all
PAKISTANr,H                                         ANDHRA  PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT                                                                 Koppa   hrtpl
4,.1        t        - rjj      -               Fishing Village  Access Roads and  Visakhapatnam  Harbor                                                rnmayyapalem&
<   >   -'C)    /   l                                   ~~~~~VISAKHAPATNAM  DISTRICT                                                            |/OV1S
~~~'O
SD  I N D I A        !t  2EURMA/i
-     \      ERADEjS      SHA                                                                                                              Gudj7\ o \D)avaram
B |    8AY O2F 8,61VOA Z                                                                                                      0 Podonagrnayyap0lem
2Sfji LANKA                                                                                                                    heemunipofO
5 %                  SRIKAKULAM                             Chodavaram
Li    VhapAKHA    TNAM                                                                                                                tnj=<\a h pa C M
2 -\ ) voAF   Y >  %  = C  = K                                  VSSAKHAPAtNAM
E A 5 T                    8 /NEGA /
GO DAVAR I
Y ARA OF MAP
2/            gr d~~~Vaacheepurul I i  +pae
/  i-93lu~~~~~~~fmmopalem
.1)                                                                     <                                                                       \ / /adopatem  PROJECT FEATURES
K                                                                    d                                                                       Road Improvements
Proposed New Roads
-Road Numbers
0; /    /   9<                                                                             Visakhapatnam Harbor
Kotaptnom
/evupalavaram       Bangarammapalom /                                                                              EXISTING FEATURES
<             ~~~~~Re  uooahnao mplem                                                                                                 od
L                  ~~~~~~Roads
/-  ! :::Railroads
T./                                                                                                                    N                        Villages and Towns
District Boundaries
5                 ,'                                   B A  Y   OF   ,9ENGAL                                            I                         State Boundaries
Edatom                                                                                                                                 -         International Boundaries
- -O ).V6nkatanagaram
manupeta                                                                                                                          o              0             20
;// _ > K I L OM A 1E T EERS                                                                                                                                                        5,O






PROJECT FEATURES                                                                                 INDIA
Road Improvements                                          ANDHRA  PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Proposed New Roads
(O)   Road Numbers                                                    Fishing Village Access Roads and Kakinado Harbor
a      Kakinado Harbor                                                                 EAST  GODAVARI DISTRICT
EXISTING  FEATURES                                                                                                             -     T?ni
Roads                                                                   1
Railroads                    -                                               D
Cainals                                                             ( (aflko- .o)f
o      Villages and Towns                             /               Yo E   -r91  d
-   -   Taluk Boundaries                                                                                             7           A\//ornr      I'>
-    District Boundaries                                                                             Kothpud                   Veanc
-   -    International Boundaries                                                                                                                         to _  Addripea
o             10              20                                          /                                                            , /  / /    /   <  oioJrlipe3r2
KILOMETERS                                                           ID
NOI1E TAL9( B0IJNIDAR ES ARE APPROX MAE\
4t z J  \ Arplote X f C-nrl/RS      
'  ['  J            \   /                       /\                 ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~     ~~Pithapuram     -Cacppf
PAKISTAN               C H I N A            \agamrepeto               /t9
/    >>                          4                f-                             / < UTAN.                  p of
Kz  Asto    sHuTvJ,   5        (\                 /    Peddapuram                       -          /  Upoda
C   ?   g fi                 \             /         - -       X     niu~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~molkof  ozocreA
SINIKA N-                                                                                         D
PRADES~~~~~~~~~~~~Kkn                                                       RRO
BA_Y  OF BENGA-                                                  I N A  D A
SRI LANKA
,   r      \G  DAVARI  <<t<                                          /)  
G:ODAVARI        O 9MAP                       R             NDRAPURAM
A~~~~G                                     V                                                                                                                   P2 
GODAV RI ~     ~     BNGL                                                                                                                $4O.P                ~-
4     ZZ NGH4 Z                          ot                      l               \<~~~~~ ~ ') 7/ /h~,.. rnsm4..  rhb 9wVR d,lSIZ,*Jyb4rThnhhAherv*NrSht&,k .,d,fl -e    r
,  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d/SMN  d', )                                        d     Ed tdt El    EIE   d'IEE  El =d EidE ELr
8A Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                EfEE RE  d,..
________________  S                                         RI     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  U,~~






INDIA
PROJECT FEATURES                                                             ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Road Improvements                                                         Fishing  Village  Access Roads and  Nizampatnam   Harbor
-Proposed New Roads                                                                                  GUNTUR  DISTRICT
O    Road Numbers
* Nizampatnam Harbor                                                                                                    ,
EXISTING FEATURES
Roads
Railroads \
- CanolCanals                                                          Ponnur                                       odava
0     Villages and Towns                      b                                                                                                                                5' \.
---   Taluk Boundaries                           5                                                         /\
-   District Boundaries
-    International Boundaries
o    2     4    6    8       0/                                                                                                                apat a
KILOMETERS
\ A P/ A   T  L A   /\..\   1   AL
S    _S  , f  ,   C H NR   C0E             g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /              U >;             US          ,      e      0~~~~~~  |L       L         E      Xl  
-PAKISTAN/, 
INDIA                                                                                                                      C h tarevu
BURMA                                                                                            (I
. .)  G  U  N  T U  R iSSABEI55 
Cpat-a                                                               I revu     (New 3rYdge    Kothalolew            0/
5n DvSr                                                                                                                                                \ ROAD
OgNAG  O  L  E  /.~                                Muthaipca lem                                     MZAMPATNAM                                                              dipalem
ffAr Of BifrjG                                    Mth. 4palem                                          KAOO                                             Mo *logunto.__
N I IA 44 A r A A 418 Andisomudram 
Ei ANKA
NAL GONDA                                                       N      Koavodiorevu
G UN TU R
A~~~EAOFt                   B~8A  Y                O F               BENIVG                    A   I
0  N G  0  L  E                                             Mm .lr       =7'                                                                                                      kvoi        
tzDwsi WSg$k 4



