FILE COPY                                  tDoumnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
RepwiNe.P-2252-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
May 17, 1978
'Ti demet ha a restricte dstributim an my be an by recipiets only In the performance of
their official duties. Its coutents may not otherwise be disclosd without Woeld Dank authorIatIon. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 11, 1978)
US$1.00      =    Rs 8.58
Rs 1.00      =    US$0.1166
Rs 1,000     =    US$116.60
Rs 1,000,000 =    US$116,600.00
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a 'basket' of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
APFC     -   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation Ltd.
APFD     -   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Department
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BCC      -   Backward Class (Cooperative Finance) Corporation
CCC      -   Central Coordinating Committee (GoI)
CIFT     -   Central Institute of Fishery Technology
CMFRI    -   Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute
CMU      -   Catch Monitoring Unit
DS       -   District Subcommittee
EFP      -   Exploratory Fisheries Project
FTO      -   Fisheries Terminal Organization
GOAP     -   Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI      -   Government of India
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
KBBY     -   Kakinada Boat Building Yard
NEU      -   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFV      -   Mechanize Fishing Vessel (trawler-gillnetter)
MPEDA    -   Marine Products Export Development Authority
PB       -   Participating Banks
PCC      -   Project Coordinating Committee
PISFH    -   Pre-investment Survey of Fishing Harbors
SPD      -   State Ports Department
SFDA     -   Small Farmers Development Agency
VPT      -   Visakhapatnam Port Trust



FM OFFXIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           The State of Andhra Pradesh.
Amount:                US$17.5 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       GOI to GOAP:  Funds for harbor improvements and
other civil works and technical assistance would
be made available to GOAP in accordance with GOI
standard arrangements for development assistance
to state governments.
GOI to ARDC: Repayable over 9 years at 6.75%
interest per annum less 0.25 prompt payment
discount; or repayable over 15 years at 7.25%
interest per annum less 0.25% prompt payment
discount. Exchange risk to be borne by GOI.
ARDC (i) to Banks: Interest at 8% per annum with
repayment up to 10 years set to coincide with
payments by ultimate borrowers; refinance of up
to 80% of individual loans; (ii) Banks to Borrowers
at an annual interest rate of 11% with a maximum
repayment period of 10 years, including a grace
period of 1 year.
Project Description:  The project is aimed at improvement and expan-
sion of existing harbor and shore facilities at
Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam, expansion
of the mechanized fishing vessel fleet, and provi-
sion of village access roads and water supply to
help traditional fishermen in three leading fishing
districts in Andhra Pradesh. More than 75,000
subsistence fishermen would benefit from the project.
The main risks are possible overharvesting of shrimp
resources, potential difficulties to negotiate the
shallow bar at Nizampatnam, and delays in completion
of Project works. Various safeguards have been
provided to reduce these risks.
Thi document ha  retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Dank authorization.



- 11 -
Estimated Costs:                                               US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total
I. Harbor Development
and Seafood Facilities
Visakhapatnam                  7.5      --      7.5
Kakinada                       6.2      --      6.2
Nizampatnam                    1.0      --      1.0
Sub-total                  14.7      --     14.7
II.  Village Roads and
Water Supply
Three Districts                3.5      --      3.5
Nizampatnam Water Supply       0.1      --      0.1
Sub-total                   3.6     --       3.6
III. Fishing Vessels
MFVs                (360)      6.6      --      6.6
Non-MFVs             (60)      0.3      _       0.3
Sub-total                   6.9     --       6.9
IV. Technical Assistance
Two Consultants                --       0.1     0.1
Overseas.Study Tours           --       0.1     0.1
Two Wooden Hull Trawlers       1.2      --      1.2
Sub-total                    1.2      0.2     1.4
V.  Total before Contingencies   26.4       0.2    26.6
VI. Contingencies
Physical                       2.2      --      2.2
Price                          7.7      --      7.7
Total Project Cost          36.3      0.2    36.5
Financing Plan:                                                US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                             17.3       0.2     17.5
GOI/GOAP                        12.1        -      12.1
ARDC                             3.2        -       3.2
PBs                              1.8        -       1.8
Borrowers                        1.9        -       1.9
36.3      0.2     36.5



- 111 -
Estimated
Disbursement:                                     US$ Million
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84
Annual         0.3   1.1   1.8   1.0   0.3   0.1
Cumulative    0.5   3.7  10.4  15.6  16.6  17.5
Rate of Return:        Overall economic rate of return for the project,
excluding technical assistance, would be 35%.
The rate of return would be about 28% on the
investment component at Visakhapatnam, 45% at
Kakinada, and 17% at Nizampatnam, and on average
about 40% for the village access roads.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1896-IN of May 16, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$17.5 million on standard
IDA terms to finance a project for increasing marine fishery production and
incomes of traditional and commercial fishermen in Andhra Pradesh. US$13.6
million from the credit would be channelled by GOI to the Government of Andhra
Pradesh (GOAP) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for
financing state development projects. US$3.9 million from the credit would
be made available by GOI to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Cor-
poration (ARDC) repayable to GOI over nine years at 6.75% per annum and
over 15 years at 7.25% per annum. ARDC would make these funds available to
participating banks for financing investments in fishing vessels and shore
installations. US$1.4 million from the credit would be used by GOI to cover
the cost of technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Gujarat Irrigation Project
(Report No. P-2285-IN), dated May 4, 1978.



-2-
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys many
of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development. Although
literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well trained
administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entrepreneural
class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by international
comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is relatively well-
placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very large reserves of
coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric potential. Recent
petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited and prospects are
bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the infrastructure
needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute terms the
irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are each
among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed, world.
However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly from state
to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase in
the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exist. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950's; life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in the
1940's to 45-50 years in the 1970's; school enrollment rising from 32% to 65%
of children in primary school ages and from 5% to 29% of children in secondary
school ages since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning
in 1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which
compares well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of
per capita incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about
10% of GDP in the early 1950's to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP
growth has not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital
use which transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms
of trade shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.



In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An
adverse shift in terms of trade starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75, due
to greater power availability, better management in the public sector, improved
labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived from
increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher levels
of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the balance
of payments, with a sharp real reduction in the import bill helped by good
harvests and increased domestic production in iron and steel, fertilizer and
oil, which reduced demand for imports The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76, were
stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the same
level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that of
the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have been on average of 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared
with 1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
II.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent rabi crop expectations, price stability
and good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange.
The circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the devel-
opment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development towards improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living
of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to low income
groups.  To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to emphasize
agricultural development, cottage and small scale industries, area planning
for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.  As a
first step towards complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages the
creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion of
construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.                                                       £
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978-79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



-5-
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970's. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension of more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated land
and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly, these
farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the majority
of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid 1960's--large
unutilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and
low productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one
of the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries,
which make up a significant portion of the sector. Low buoyancy of demand for
industrial products from all sources--not only from investments but also from
agriculture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint.
Further import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufac-
tured goods in the future because most opportunities for efficient import
substitution have been exploited. Higher effective demand from increased
growth of real incomes from greater productivity in both agriculture and
manufacturing, sustained increases in exports and increased investment,
particularly from the public sector, all can raise demand for industrial
production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing, and, within the small scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



-6-
the small scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality will not fall as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its
commitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the re-
sources to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family
planning effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its
1970-75 level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 thousand to the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the. population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will
continue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the
1990's, resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor
force from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The government's goal to eliminate unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development in the next few years. With good medium-
term prospects for India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in
invisible receipts and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments,



-7-
the net availability of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is
projected to rise over the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7
billion in 1977/78 to US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum.
As it is unlikely that there will be a need to increase rapidly imports of
some traditionally important items -- e.g., petroleum, fertilizer, food-
grains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can increase at the rate of
20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of GDP
from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income, the present
situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envisioned
over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently announced.
It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will be sufficient
to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will be necessary.
Assured international support for India's development effort will be an im-
portant factor in moving the Government to take greater risks in pursuing a
dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs of its large
and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 development
credits to India totalling US$2,013 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$890 million has been
repaid, and US$2,120 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.4 million, US$22.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



-8-
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high priority sectors as
agriculture, irrigation, rural water supply and medium and small scale in-
dustry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



9-
lending. As of March 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,159
million, of which US$594 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$565 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion,  of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - MARINE FISHERIES IN INDIA AND ANDHRA PRADESH
Marine Fisheries in India
30.       The Indian Ocean is one of the least exploited fishery resources
in the world. FAO and Indian fishery experts conservatively estimate the
potential of the Indian Ocean at 14 million tons per annum as compared with
Pacific and Atlantic Ocean fish yields of about 33 and 23 million tons per
annum, respectively. The long-term perspective target of the Indian National
Commission on Agriculture (1976) is an annual catch of 3.5 million tons by
the year 2000. In 1976, the total catch of Indian fishermen was 2.2 million
tons -- about 1.4 million tons from marine fisheries and 0.8 million tons
from inland fish production. Marine fisheries developed more rapidly on the
west than on the east coast due to a wider continental shelf, more fishing
harbors and easily exploitable shrimp resources. However, development of
marine resources on the east coast has accelerated considerably during the
last decade.
31.       Total marine fish catch in India rose from 580,000 tons in 1950
to 2.2 million tons in 1976. During this period, India's fleet of mechanized
fishing vessels (MFVs) increased from 23 to about 12,000, mainly because of
the attractive world shrimp market coupled with abundant shrimp resources
along the coasts which stimulated investment in MFVs. India's landings of
shrimp increased by 169,000 tons (or about 220%) between 1965 and 1975, when
India accounted for about 20% of the total world output of shrimp and prawns
and became the world's largest shrimp exporter. In 1976 India exported about
US$214 million worth of crustacean products. Crustaceans comprising high
quality shrimp, lobsters and crabs are by far the most important in terms
of the value of catch in India. Although they form only about 12% of the
landed live weight of the marine catch, their value exceeds 60% of the total.
The major shrimp exporting ports are Cochin and Bombay, but Visakhapatnam's
share has grown rapidly and is expected to increase further as larger trawlers
begin to land their catches there.



- 10 -
32.       The Indian fishing industry employs about 5.5 million workers; about
1.0 million are full-time and the remainder work part-time or are employed in
fisheries-related industries. India's marine fishery industry is composed of
two distinct sectors - the subsistence and the commercial. Subsistence fisher-
men operate traditional marine fishing craft including dugout canoes, plank
boats and catamarans from unprotected beaches and sell their catch to fish
traders at low prices. Fishing villages are often isolated and inadequately
provided with potable water, access roads, primary schools, medical facilities
and communications. Hitherto, modernization in this sector has been restricted
to the use of nylon nets, synthetic fiber fishing gear and some out-board
motors. However, in spite of rapid mechanization of fishing vessels, over
70% of the marine catch still comes from traditional non-mechanized boats.
Present facilities are generally inadequate and, therefore, GOI plans to ex-
pand fishing harbors and shore facilities to service the traditional and com-
mercial fishermen as well as to provide credit to promote expansion and
modernization of the fishing fleet in the country.
Marine Fisheries of Andhra Pradesh (AP)
33.       Andhra Pradesh has an extensive coastline of about 8TQ km and a
continental shelf area (up to depth of 50 m) of about 9,000 km . Although
the east coast of India has, relative to the west coast, a narrower con-
tinental shelf (averaging about 40 km wide), much of it is good ground for
trawling. GOI has confirmed the existence of adequate marine resources for
further development by extensive test fishing in the project area between
1959 and 1976. Increased development on the east coast, however, calls for
close monitoring of fisheries resources to provide early warning for the
authorities in case resource depletion becomes a problem.
34.       Monitoring would cover fishing grounds along the Andhra Pradesh
Coast particularly around the Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and the Nizapatnam
harbors in Andhra Pradesh. Visakhapatnam is India's fifth largest commercial
port and functions as both a commercial port and fishing harbor. It is served
by the main coastal highway and railway networks. The fishing harbor facilities
at Visakhapatnam are too small for handling the increasing volume of catch and
need additional jetties to accommodate the growing number of vessels calling
at harbor facilities. Kakinada, the other main fishing harbor, lies about 150
km southeast of Visakhapatnam and consists of commercial and fishing harbor
facilities. Kakinada has a fleet of about 600 registered MFVs of which about
300 currently operate from the port. The present fishing harbor can adequately
accommodate perhaps 75 small MFVs, but not the 500 vessels which use facilities
during the peak season. The channel leading to the port is heavily congested
and hazardous for both fishing and commercial port operations. Nizampatnam,
unlike the other two sites, has only a rudimentary harbor for small fishing
vessels. Nizampatnam itself is a coastal fishing village with a population
of about 15,000 and is situated about midway along the coast between Kakinada
and the Tamil Nadu border. The nearest large town, Guntur, has a population
of about 290,000. The proposed harbor for Nizampatnam would be constructed
at a site about 200 km from Kakinada and 400 km from Visakhapatnam.



- 11 -
Fisheries Administration
35.       Government of India.  The Department of Agriculture, under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, has overall responsibility for the
formulation of national policies and programs of fisheries and fishing harbor
development, processing and preservation of fish, fisheries education and
training, and fish marketing and trade. It assists State Governments in for-
mulating policy, plans and projects and in setting up fisheries corporations;
it offers technical advice and guidance when required; and it has jurisdiction
over major fisheries institutions. The Marine Products Development Authority
(MPDA) at Cochin under the Ministry of Commerce plays a vital role in the
development of marine products for export, mainly shrimp.
36.       Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP).  The Department of Fisheries
of Andhra Pradesh (APFD) is under the administrative control of the Secretary
to the Government for the Forests and Rural Development Department. APFD is
responsible for fisheries administration and fisheries cooperative societies.
It provides assistance to village development officers by means of the village
Panchayati Raj system, operates demonstration projects in fish farming and pro-
vides extension in inland fisheries and a variety of other fisheries services.
APFD is well managed and staffed by able people. It also oversees operations
of the Fisheries Training Institute at Kakinada and collects statistical data
about fisheries in the State.
37.       Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation (APFC).  APFC was established
in 1974 to encourage commercial fisheries development in the State, parti-
cularly for marine fisheries. APFC owns and operates the Kakinada Boat
Building Yard (KBBY), shrimp freezing and processing plants, ice and cold
storage plants, a 21-vessel fishing fleet, fuel and lubricants depots, a fish-
ing gear and net making unit, and a canning plant. It also handles the
marketing of its own catch, including shrimp exports. In 1976/77 the financial
and administrative management of APFC improved and for the first time in two
years it made a profit of Rs 110,000. APFC would play an important role in
the implementation of the proposed Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project.
Previous Bank Group Experience
38.       The Gujarat Fisheries Project (Credit 695-IN, Loan 1394T-IN), the
first Bank-group financed marine fisheries project for India, became effective
on July 19, 1977. This Loan/Credit provides US$18.0 million for marine fish-
eries development to be implemented by the Government of Gujarat and finances:
(i) improvement of the State's two leading fishing harbors and provision of
basic infrastructure for eight fishing villages; (ii) credit through parti-
cipating banks with ARDC refinancing to fishermen, cooperatives, and private
entrepreneurs for outboard motors, mechanized canoes, MFVs, ice and cold
storage plants, processing facilities and net making equipment; and (iii)
technical assistance for test fishing operations off the coasts of Gujarat
and Andhra Pradesh, fish marketing studies, and consultants for project
implementation. Progress in project implementation has been slow because
of delays in the hiring of staff. Key staff have now been appointed and
prequalification of contractors for the main investment, Veraval harbor
works, is being finalized. Tenders are to be invited shortly.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was prepared by GOAP with the assistance of missions
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program which visited India during 1974 and 1975.
It was appraised by IDA in September/October 1977. The Statf Appraisal Report
No. 1896-IN, dated May 16, 1978, is being circulated separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 13 to April 24,
1978. The Borrower was represented by Mrs. A.R. Malhotra, Additional Secretary,
Department of Agriculture and Mr. D.K. Chatterjee, Director, Department of
Economic Affairs. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Also attached is a project map.
Project Description
40.       The efforts of GOI and GOAP to promote rapid fishery development
in Andhra Pradesh have been hampered by the inadequacy of harbors, marketing
facilities and credit for the purchase of vessels. The proposed project has
been designed to alleviate these problems by modernizing and expanding the
harbors and shore facilities at Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam. The
project provides for: (i) improvement of three fishing harbors: Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam; (ii) construction of access roads to coastal fishing
villages in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and Guntur Districts where the project
harbors are located, as well as provision of water supply in Nizampatnam;
(iii) credit for 360 MFVs and 60 non-MFVs; (iv) credit for seafood process-
ing facilities at Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam; and (v) technical assistance
for the hiring of a specialist in estuarial river training works and a naval
architect as consultants, an overseas study tour program for fisheries person-
nel, and construction of two experimental (23m) wooden hull shrimp trawlers.
Following is a brief description of project components.
(i) Harbor Improvements
41.       The project provides for expansion of the harbors at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam. At Visakhapatnam the project would finance expan-
sion of present facilities to handle about 300 MFVs and up to 56 trawlers by
late 1981. Financing would be for additional quay length, expansion of the
slipway and for a crawler crane. Also, roads, buildings, electrical and water
distribution systems, dredging for slipway access and the repair berth area
would be provided under the project. The construction of the Kakinada harbor
would involve construction of a new harbor about 8 km from the present facili-
ties. The harbor would be planned to accommodate about 410 (lOm) MFVs and 15
large shrimp trawlers and would be expandable if needed. The new facilities
would include a breakwater about 880 m long; four jetties for MFV's; a shrimp
trawler landing, fitting, outfitting and berthing jetty; two auction halls on
the jetties; basin and approach channel dredging for the 23m trawler facilities;
roads and drainage; and boat repair and service facilities. The project would
help to upgrade the harbor at Nizampatnam, which lacks landing, transport and
handling facilities. Facilities to be provided would include a 3 km harbor
approach road; a harbor basin 215 m long and 15 m wide; a landing, outfitting
and berthing quay 190m length; an auction hall; 1.2 hectares of harbor working



- 13 -
area; an administration building; fuel and marine facilities; a maintenance
workshop with equipment; drainage; and services. GOAP is already constructing,
with its own budgeting resources, training walls to protect the harbor entrance.
Assurance has been received that the harbor entrance at Nizapatnaim would be
under the jurisdiction of the State Ports Department (SPD) and that GOAP would
ensure adequate water depth at the entrance (Section 2.07 of the Project
Agreement). At full development, the harbor would be able to handle 175
sailing vessels and about 85 MFVs.
(ii) Village Access Roads and Nizampatnam Water Supply
42.       The project would finance the improvement and construction of 215
km of access roads to fishing villages in three districts and the provision of
drinking water to the village of Nizampatnam. Development of coastal villages
in Andhra Pradesh has been retarded, in great part, because access by villagers
to trading centers has been difficult. Many fishing villages are accessible
only by foot making it difficult for the fishermen to sell their catch and
keep spoilage to a minimum. To alleviate this problem and to help improve the
standard of living of subsistence fishermen, the project provides for access
roads to connect fishing villages in the districts of Visakhapatnam, East
Godavari and Guntur, with the main trading centers in Visakhapatnam, Kakinada
and Nizampatnam. About 100 coastal fishing villages and landing centers would
be affected by the roads which would benefit about 75,000 fishermen families
in Andhra Pradesh. The existing water supply system in Nizampatnam, with a
population of about 15,000, is inadequate. The project would deepen and
renovate the two existing water tanks and construct a new overhead tank.
Pumping equipment and piping to bring water from a nearby irrigation canal
would be installed along with a water distribution system to supply water to
the inhabitants in Nizampatnam.
(iii) Credit for Fishing Vessels
43.       The project would provide credit through participating banks (PBs),
with refinancing arrangements through the Agricultural Refinance and Develop-
ment Corporation (ARDC), for purchase of fishing vessels. A total of about
360 MFVs--150 (lOm) at Visakhapatnam, 150 (lOm) at Kakinada and 60 (9m) at
Nizampatnam--would be financed for purchase by individuals, private companies
and groups. MFVs would be built at the Kakinada Boat Building Yard (KBBY) or
by local artisans using KBBY designs. In addition 60 (12m) sailing craft
for Nizampatnam would be financed for purchase by individuals or cooperatives.
Ultimate borrowers for the fishing vessels would pay an annual interest rate
of 11%; loan would be for periods of up to 8 years. In addition, to help
smaller fishermen obtain the loans, VPT will provide endorsements for bank
liens on the licenses of fishing vessels registered in Visakhapatnam (Section
3.04 of the Credit Agreement). Shrimp trawlers, which are important for the
harvesting of shrimp in the virtually unexploited deeper waters and would use
project facilities, would be financed by GOI budget allocations from a special
Fund established for this purpose.



- 14 -
(iv) Credit for Seafood Plants
44.       ARDC would also refinance credit for seafood processing plants to
be owned and operated by APFC at the Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam harbors,
but not in Kakinada which already has ample facilities. For Visakhapatnam,
provision has been made for an 80 ton/day block ice plant with 100 ton stor-
age; a 23 ton/day freezing plant for shrimp and other fish; and 100 ton cold
storage and 600 ton frozen storage for iced shrimp. Three insulated trucks
with a 3 ton capacity would also be provided. At Nizampatnam the project
would finance one 25 ton/day block ice plant with 25 ton storage; a small
1.5 ton/day freezing plant; and 25 ton cold storage and 20 ton frozen storage
including one insulated truck. Here, APFC would be able to process quality
shrimp, and the extra storage capacity at Visakhapatnam would facilitate
holding for export frozen shrimp from other APFC plants. APFC would pay
an annual interest rate of 11%; loans would be for periods of up to 10 years.
Preparation by ARDC of a banking plan for the credit components, including
the fishing vessels, would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(Section 5.01(c) of Credit Agreement).
(v) Technical Assistance
45.       Technical assistance would include a specialist in estuarial river
training works for 3 man-months, a naval architect for 6 man-months, a two-
month overseas study-tour for 10 people involved in project management, and
construction of two experimental (23m) wooden hull trawlers to determine the
effectiveness of this type of trawler in India. It is estimated that their
costs may be about 30% less than steel hull vessels of similar size which are
currently being imported. Assurances have been received that the overseas
study-tour would be undertaken by December 31, 1979 and that the two trawlers
would be constructed and operated by APFC by December 31, 1981 (Section 2.08
and of Project Agreement). The overseas study-tour would help APFC management
learn more about modern shrimp quality control and marketing. The two wooden
hull trawlers would be built by KBBY and operated by APFC. The project engi-
neer would help prepare detailed designs for the Kakinada and Nizampatnam
harbors and direct their construction. The estuarial specialist would assist
with the design and construction of the training walls at the Nizampatnam
harbor entrance. The naval architect would assist with the design and devel-
opment of the two wooden hull trawlers. Assurances have been received that
the project engineer and the naval architect would be hired by December 31,
1978 and December 31, 1979 respectively (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
APFD - Management of Harbor Shore Facilities and Monitoring
46.       APFD would be responsible for supervision of project implementation,
administration of harbor supporting facilities and monitoring and evaluation
of the project and marine resources. For this purpose, APFD would form a
division to oversee project execution. The division would have Fisheries
Terminal Organizations (FTOs), a Catch Monitoring Unit (CMU) and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (MEU). APFD would be responsible for the FTOs at Kakinada



- 15 -
and Nizampatnam harbors and staff of the FTO at Visakhapatnam harbor would
report to APFD or to VPT. They would supervise and administer shore facil-
ities financed under the project (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). CMU
would collect and analyze catch data for each major class of vessels. MEU
staff would monitor and report on project problems and progress. MEU would
prepare an evaluation study of the impact of the various project components
and their benefits. The study would provide information on changes occurring
during and after project implementation in order to assist in the design of
future fisheries projects. APFD would establish MEU and CMU by December 31,
1978 and develop a detailed work plan for catch monitoring by June 30, 1979
(Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
APFC - Construction of MFVs and Operations of Seafood Facilities
47.       Under the project, APFC would:  (i) build most of the project 9m
and 10m MFVs at KBBY; (ii) build and operate two experimental 23m shrimp
trawlers; (iii) own and operate new seafood processing plants for freezing,
ice supply and cold storage at Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam; and (iv) pro-
cure, process and export most of the shrimp produced by project vessels.
48.       APFC would assign three suitably qualified persons to manage and
oversee day-to-day operations of the components pertaining to APFC at the
three harbors financed under the project. Two units, a Project Management
Unit and a Financial Control Unit,.would be set up directly under the Managing
Director to monitor and coordinate APFC's operations under the project.
Assurances have been received that the two units would be established and
that the three managers would be assigned by June 30, 1979 (Section 2.11 of
the Project Agreement). At each project site, local APFC officials would be
responsible for operation of processing facilities, procurement and marketing
of fish, and workshop facilities.
49.       APFC would promote commercial fisheries development and marketing
in the State. Currently, APFC has a total of over 500 employees, with the
largest units being KBBY and the Visakhapatnam ice and freezing plant, which
together account for about 70% of APFC staff. APFC's authorized share capital
totals Rs 30 million, with paid-up share capital of Rs 6.6 million. APFC
would have greatly expanded financial needs and responsibilities under the
project, and some strengthening of its financial position would be needed.
Assurances have been received that GOAP would provide additional share cap-
ital of Rs 2.0 million by June 30, 1979 and Rs 3.0 million by June 30, 1980
(Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement). Also GOAP would complete the eval-
uation of assets transferred to APFC by June 30, 1979 and would submit a
summary of the evaluation report upon completion to IDA (Section 2.12 of the
Project Agreement).
SPD and VPT - Supervision of Harbor Works
50.       Under the project, SPD would be responsible for procurement and
supervision of project harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam and would
require additional engineering and port administration staff. SPD is respon-
sible for administering all Andhra Pradesh state ports. SPD also oversees the



- 16 -
planning, construction, maintenance and operation State ports and the moni-
toring of vessel movements and registration of small vessels in State ports.
SPD is well managed with a total staff of about 350, including port adminis-
tration personnel and a fully staffed Engineering Department. Visakhapatnam,
which is under GOI control is administered through the Visakhapatnam Port
Trust (VPT). The Visakhapatnam Port Trust would make arrangements by
December 31, 1978 to take over the daily operation of the fishing harbor at
Visakhapatnam, including the slipway and repair facilities (Section 3.02 of
the Credit Agreement).
Panchayati Raj Department - Supervision of Acess Roads and Water Supply
51.       GOAP's Panchayati Raj Department would have responsibility for over-
seeing construction of project village access roads and the Nizampatnam water
supply system. The Panchayati Raj Department links district level administra-
tion with local village development, and provides engineering services for
most other departments for specified community or village level development
projects. The Department is adequately staffed and has 250 engineers at
the level of assistant engineer or higher, with executive engineers at the
district level who would plan and supervise village access road and water
system construction. The Department would not require additional staff to
undertake works for the project.
Coordination
52.       Implementation of the project would require considerable coordina-
tion among the participating agencies mentioned above. At the State level,
coordination would be done through a Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
chaired by the Secretary of the Department of Forests and Rural Development.
The Director of Fisheries would be the PCC secretary who would function as
project coordinator. Membership would include the Secretary for the Ministry
of Finance or his representative, the Director of State Ports, the Managing
Director of the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation, the Chief Engineer of
the Roads and Buildings Department, the Chief Engineer of the Panchayati Raj
Department and the Regional Director of ARDC. PCC would obtain the services
of other state officials as necessary. Establishment of the PCC would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01(d) of the Credit Agree-
ment). The Central Coordinating Committee (CCC), established under Develop-
ment Credit No. 695-IN (Gujarat Fisheries Project) would coordinate state and
central activities and provide policy guidance with regard to the project.
Membership in the existing CCC would be extended to include representation
from Andhra Pradesh.
53.       At the district level, sub-committees within the State-level Project
Coordinating (PCC) would be formed in each of the project districts of Visak-
hapatnam, East Godavari and Guntur. Besides coordinating activities of the
implementing agencies at the field level, these sub-committees would also
coordinate with the District administration for the village access road
program.



- 17 -
Implementation Schedule
54.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years begin-
ning in mid-1978. Visakhapatnam and Kakinada harbors, village access roads
and the seafood processing facilities would be completed by 1982. Deployment
of project vessels would be spread over the full five year project period.
Technical assistance provided by the naval architect would be completed by
1981, and the study-tour would be completed during 1979. The two wooden hull
trawlers would be completed by 1981.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$36.5 million equiv-
alent or about US$35.3 million net of taxes and duties. The proposed credit
of US$17.5 million would finance about 50% of project costs net of taxes and
duties. The direct foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$0.2 million for technical assistance, on the assumption that all contracts
for civil works and equipment will be won by Indian suppliers; the indirect
foreign exchange cost of the project is small and difficult to estimate accu-
rately. The remaining costs would be financed by GOI, GOAP, ARDC, participat-
ing banks and borrowers. The principal components, net of contingencies, are:
harbor improvements and expansion in the Ports of Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and
Nizampatnam (US$13.5 million); fishing vessels (US$6.9 million); village roads
and water supply (US$3.6 million); seafood plants at Visakhapatnam and
Nizampatnam (US$1.2 million); and technical assistance (US$1.4 million). The
provision of contingencies of US$9.9 million consists of price contingencies
of about 8% per annum and physical contingencies of about 5% for all items.
Details of cost estimates are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Cost Recovery of Investment in Harbors
56.       GOAP is already collecting fees from fishing vessels using harbor
facilities in Andhra Pradesh. During appraisal of the proposed fisheries
project GOAP was contemplating further increases of the wharfage and port
fees. On the basis of the annual wharfage and port fees projected by GOAP
(Rs. 61,000 per shrimp trawler, Rs. 6,500 per 10 m MFV, Rs. 2,400 per 9m MFV
and Rs. 100 per 12 m non-MFV) the payback period would be 8 years for Visak-
hapatnam, 16 years for Kakinada and 38 years for Nizampatnam. Furthermore,
during negotiations for the Gujarat Fisheries Project, GOI agreed to under-
take an overall review of the adequacy of the cost recovery system being
used in all fishing harbors in India. GOI is developing a set of guidelines
for standardizing berthing and wharfage charges, which is expected to be com-
pleted by July 1978. Implementation of the guidelines would be underway by
July 1979. Rates to be charged at project-harbors are expected to be in
keeping with the forthcoming guidelines.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Harbor Works.  Except for minor contracts for ancillary facilities
and dredging work, contracts for civil works at Visakhapatnam (US$6.5 million)



- 18 -
and Kakinada (US$6.2 million) would be awarded through international competi-
tive bidding and would administered by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) under
GOI and the State Ports Department of Andhra Pradesh for Kakinada (Paragraph 4
of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement). In Kakinada to facilitate urgently
needed work up to US$0.5 million of engineering civil works expenditures would
be financed retroactive to February 28, 1978. Harbor works at Nizampatnam
would be relatively small (US$0.8 million) and are not likely to attract for-
eign firms. Contracts for Nizampatnam, therefore, would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding and would be administered by the GOAP
Department of Ports. Dredging work would be carried out on force account by
VPT at Viskhapatnam, by the Ports Department (GOAP) at Kakinada and by the
Irrigation Department at Nizampatnam. The crawler crane and its accessories
required for the Viskhapatnam harbor would be procured through local compe-
titive bidding.
58.       Village Access Roads and Water Supply. As the sites are numerous
(over 20) and widely scattered and the value of contracts at each site is
expected to be very small (on average about US$250,000), contracts for vil-
lage access roads (US$3.6 million in total) and village water supply works
(US$0.1 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
and would be administered by the Executive Engineer attached to the District
Collector's Office concerned.
59.       Fishing Vessels.  As is customary in credit operations, all project
fishing vessels US$6.9 million for 420 vessels of three standard designs)
would be purchased by individuals, cooperatives and business firms according
to their preferences. Accordingly local procurement would be appropriate.
The cost of each vessel is relatively small (about US$20,000 for a lOm MFV,
US$12,000 for a 9m MFV, US$4,000 for a non-MFV), and bulking would serve no
useful purpose. The two wooden hull trawlers under technical assistance would
be constructed by the APFC-owned Kakinada Boat Building Yard, and APFC would
be paid the actual construction costs.
60.       Seafood Processing Plants.  Civil works for the seafood processing
plants to be owned and operated by APFC at Visakhapatnam (US$216,000) and
Nizampatnam (US$33,000) would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding because of the size of the contracts. These, therefore, would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding satisfactory to IDA.
Equipment for the plants (US$675,000 and US$140,000 respectively) would be
bulked to the extent possible and procured by APFC on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding if the estimated cost involved is US$200,000 or
more, and through local competitive bidding if it is less than US$200,000
but US$50,000 or more. Equipment costing less than US$50,000 would be pro-
cured by APFC on the basis of quotations received from interested suppliers
with due regard for economy and efficiency.
61.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 50% of expendi-
tures on civil works for harbor improvements and expansion at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam; 50% of expenditures on village access roads and
Nizampatnam water supply; 55% of ARDC disbursements for fishing vessels and



- 19 -
seafood processing facilities, including insulated trucks; and 100% of the
expenditures on consultant services, overseas study-tour, marketing study
and the two experimental wooden hull trawlers.
Financial and Economic Benefits and Risks
62.       The estimated overall economic rate of return for the entire project
investment, excluding technical assistance, is 35%. For the Visakhapatnam
harbor composite investment (harbor, vessels and processing plant) costing
US$10.5 million or 29% of total project costs, the economic rate of return
is estimated to be 28%; for the Kakinada harbor investment costing US$9.2
million or 25% of total project costs, the economic rate of return is esti-
mated to be 45%; and for the Nizapatnam harbor investment costing US$1.8 mil-
lion or 5% of total project costs, the economic rate of return is estimated
to be 17%. The average economic rate of return on the harbor components,
including all project vessels and seafood facilities which account for 59% of
total project costs, is 34%. For village access roads costing, the average
economic rate of return is estimated to be 40%.
63.       The project's financial benefits would consist primarily of (i) the
incremental catch resulting from project vessels and improved productivity of
the subsistence fishermen who would be served by the project access roads;
(ii) the incremental value added from improved quality of the fish marketed by
the subsistence fishermen benefitting from project access roads and processing
of shrimp by APFC's new plants; and (iii) the generally improved services of
project harbors. Estimated financial rates of return would be 31% for lOm
MFVs, 34% for 9m MFVs, 36% for 12m non-MFVs and over 100% for seafood plants.
At full development, incremental landings of about 36,000 tons of fish and
shrimp, valued at US$29.4 million would result from the Project.
64.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be poor fishermen.  These
would include some 75,000 subsistence fishermen presently operating from
isolated fishing villages which would be linked to market outlets through
the access roads to be constructed under the project, and 2,500 fishermen
who would find jobs on project vessels.
65.       The main risks of the project are possible over-harvesting of shrimp
resources in areas close to shore and potential difficulties for fishing ves-
sels to negotiate the shallow bar at the Nizampatnam harbor entrance under
adverse weather conditions. To prevent possible over-fishing, the project
would institute a catch monitoring system (para 46). Concerning the shallow
harbor entrance, it does not appear to be feasible to eliminate the risk com-
pletely at acceptable investment cost. However, the construction of the
training walls should help minimize this risk. Delay in the completion of
marine works is also a potential risk which could affect project benefits.
The monitoring system envisaged under the project should help minimize such
delay by timely detection of problems.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation; the draft Project Agreement between the Association, and the State
of Andhra Pradesh; the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) and Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text -and listed in Section III of Annex III,
the following conditions of effectiveness are of particular interest:
(i)  the execution of the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate action (Section 5.01
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement);
(ii)  a banking plan satisfactory to the Association has been
prepared by ARDC under Part C of the Project (Section 5.01
(c) of the Development Credit Agreement);
(iii)  the Project Coordinating Committee has been duly estab-
lished by Andhra Pradesh (Section 5.01 (d) of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 17, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA                 SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   --
---------------                                   INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
_- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - ---  _-  - -- - --- "I --  _-__- -- ----- -   _-- -- -- - - -
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                      60.0      100.0      150.0              130.0       230.0       550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           434.9      547.6     620.4  /&           117.6        36.9        92.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       133.0     167.0      189.0                62.0       123.0        110o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      30S.0      345.0               411.0       375.0        49.o
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.2      41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        36.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           23.9       19.0       17.0               20.6         13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        139.0/a       ..     130.0                  ..        81.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YR5)       41.7       47.2       49.5                  .,        55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        2.9        2.8                3.2         3.3          2.e
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.0        2.3       2.1                 2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  2.51b      3,2        3.1                3.7/a        4.0         5.o
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.8       20.6                17.5/b      27.6        56.o
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.5       40.1                44.0        45.8        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7                53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1        3.1        3.2                2.5          2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.a        9.a 0.9                         0.S         0.R
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1LC    lo:,         1.1                  .          1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3      320.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         .-       lB.?                 ..         2.0          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                          12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          71.0       69.0      69.0                  5..a                  40 4
UNEMPLOYED I% OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8 /d    4.4 /b   44/,d                               7           75
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD sY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7       25.0  c      ..                               ,       35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7       53.1 .I                                   54;         82.o 7a
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1        4.7                   .360
LOWEST  40S oF HOUSEHOLDS             13.6       13.1                                       3 .  176
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
----_- -_- - - _-__- -I-  _------ - -- -- -
% OWNED BY TOP tO% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        45.0
I OWNED BY SMALLEST ¶o% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ..          .          ;.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5840.0.Le,_4890.0    4220.0             26370.0           ..      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         531.O.&0M220.0/d  3680.OLe               7630.0           .-     3220.0b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           2590.Oj_ 1610.0          ..             1640. -      8950.0      260,0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0        109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0       53.0      48.0                43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          t9.oLi    16.0       12.6                14.0        22.0        39,0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             44.0         ..         ..                  ..         5.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       41.0       63.0       65.0               75.0        113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0       29.0               15.0         49.0        06.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       11.0               12.0        10.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
I% OF SECONDARY)                       6.0         ..         ..               29.0         6.0 .L      17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 24.0       33.0       36-0t               5S.0          .         64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8         ..                  ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         7. ..                 ..                  ,,        76.o        73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         .                                       23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                      .          ..         ..                  ..         7.0         8.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       21.0       25.0               114.0       39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                 2.0         8,0        25.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            40.0      114.0     143.0                 20.0       235.0       491,0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        o.3        0.3                 0.3         2.0         2.7
_-             ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AtNE X I
Page 2
NOTES
Ulsia. otbrwias noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for most Recent Estimate between
1973 sad 1976.
he   Brazil bas been selected as an, objective cosntry becauae of its size and comparable problen   of regional  inocq.ality.
IDA     1960     Ia  1951-61 average;    lb  1951-601           Ls.  Ratio of population  under 15 and 65 an.d over to l.bhr Icorc  uo 15 and o-r;
L/d Ectimated _by Na-tional Sample Survey, in toerma of the average umaber of peraon/weeho of uneploynent as percentage
of total personlwakek  in the labor force;          /a  1962;    If  Registered, not all practicing in the country;                 /R  Incloding
midwives;    lb  1959;    IL  1960-6 2.
1970     la  Ratio of population under I  and 65 and over to total labor forces age 15 end over;                   /b  E.tloot.d by Notional  Sosple
Survey, int torme of the average nuamber of person/weeka of unexployment as percentage of total pereon/weeks In the total
labor forte;    Ic  1967-68;    Id  Including midwcives.
MOSr RECENT ESTIMATE:    /s  1978 mid-year population and labor force  estimated at 640.4 and 261 nilli.oa respectivelY;                         lb  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;               Ic  1977;      Id  Estimated by National Dample
Survey, in terms, of the average number of peraon/lveke of unen~ploynant as percentage of total person/week.
in the labor forca;        /e  Including nidwives;        If  Population 10 years and over.
INDONESIA       1970     /a  1961-71;       lb  1971;    Ic  including mi7dwiv*e.
PHILIPPINES    1970      /a  As percentage of employment;          lb  Not including private vocationalI ..hoola.
BRAZIL          197      /a  Economically active popoletion;    lb  Hospital personnel;    lo  in.uid. only.
i1l, May 2, 1978
DUDUIEItS 0F SDCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou b2)                                                                             PoPulation Par nu         p-Acron - P.p.I.i-O  dfIId.d fly masbr of practicing
rotel   Total surface aree cmpriming  land or" end inland waters,                                 male end female graduate  uss  "trained" or  certified` nurses, -nd
garic.   M ost recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or peema-                    stoiliary personnel with training or e.perienca.
nently for crops, pastures, market A kitchen gardens on to ILe fellow.                        Ppeulation per hospital bad - Pepulation divided by -nhar of hospital hbeds
available in public and private g enate1 and apeciali.ed hospital sand
ON?  et asia fJES  -  NP per cspita etimatee at current market pricea,                      rehabilitation eatee;scldes on-ring homes sand estahlis.enta.  for
cacuatd  yseaw convereion method a. World Baank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                         custodial and preventive ..re.
1960; 1970 and 197  dats.                                                                     par cspita supply of estarles  (% of r.qgirazant.) - Computed fr-m energy
equivel.nt of net food *uppli.. eveil.ble in coun..try psr capit. per day;
Popul.tin sand vital statistic.s                                                                  avilable supplies caprise dnastic production, iEports less eporta, sand
Population  Wmd-ea.r millionS - As of July fir.t:  if not aveil.bl., averaes                      changes in steel; net supplies eaclude a.nial iced, seeds, ,1uaaiiti.. used
of two and-year aeriaetee; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                            in food pr.oesing sad losses Ln distribution; ceguiraonts were esties tad
by FAO ba.ed on physiological needs for nenl activity and health cons id-
Population denaity -tper semar  he - Mid-year population per square kilawte                       acing anvirorseantal temperature, body weights , age sand se. distributions of
(100 hectares) of  tota  are.                                                                   population, and allowing 101 for weats at h-cehold level.
PoPulation demaicy - per esuars km af neric. Land - Computed as above for                       Per capita supply of protein (grome, per day) - protein content of par tapits
agricultural land only.                                                                         net supply df food per day; net supply of feed is defined as ahove; require-
smunts for sli countries established by USDA Etonamic fesesr.h Service
Vital Statistics                                                                                   provide for a miniasze  llwae  of 60 gteno of total protein per day, and
Cru.de birth 'race per tbousand. oversee - Annual ILiv   births per thouand of                     20 grams of animal and pulas protein, of which 10 gr-m  should he animal
mid-year population; ten-year sritbraic aver.age  ending in 1960 sad 1970,                      protein; these atandards are lowr than those of 75 gram  of total protein
sand five-year average ending in 1975 far moat recant eatimtre.                                 sand 23 grams of animal protein as an average for che world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate Per thoisaend. a-rtame - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                   In the Third World Food Survey.
population; tan-year aritbiwtic everage  ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                    Per capita protein snpply from, .nL-aI sod polar - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                                           derived from  ninala sod pul.es in gren  par ds.y
Infant mortality rar  (/thaul   Annual deaths of infants under on  year of age                  Death rate i/th.u) uses 1-4 - monual deatho  per tbuoso-d in age group 1-'4
per thousaand live births.                                                                      years, to children in this age grouP; auggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth lyr)   Average a-ebar of years of life remaining at                      malnutrition
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 far develop-
ing coun,tries.                                                                               Education
Gree  grearduction rate - Average n-bar of lIve daughters a womaon will hear                     Adjusted enrollment retio - crinary school - Eoolioset of all sass as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she &.perien-es preaent age-specific                       canrtage of primary school-age population; inoludas children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year  vavrgage  ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries  fith
for developing coumtries.                                                                       univereal education, enrollment may emceead 100% since aome pupils era below
population srowts r at  (5       0  Ioa  - Compoomd annual. grosrth rates of mid-year              or  babve the offielal school ago.
population for I950-60, 11960-70 ad17-75.                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratio - ...ondary school - Conpucad as above; secondary
Poplaton  rayh rte (I      ra       optd like growth rate of total                           education requires at leas t four yeara of approved primary ina trutioc,
population; different definitions of urban  rares may affect comparability of                   provides general, voca.tional or tae-h.r training ins truotion   for poplls
data samng cuo"sries.                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correpondence cors           r  gene.rally seclded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                   Y"ear  of schooling provided (first sand second lre-1.) - Tots1 years of
definitiona of urban areas may affect comparability of dota among countries.                     schooling; at aseondary level, voational inatruction may he partially er
completely ealuded.
Ago structure ipercent) - Child-a  (0-14 years), *  orkine-se, (15-66 yere),                    Voca.tiOnal emr1llmet Cl of aecondary; - VocationI institutions 1-rod.
sand recited (65 year.sand ever) as pernentsges of eid-year population,                         technical, indus trial or other progream. which oper.t  ind.pead.ntly or as
Age dependan-Y rstio  - Ratio of population under 15 ond 65 sand over to those                     deparusenta of aecondary i..tit-ti-n.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rete (7.  - tit,r--  ad,,if  (ubl  to read and write) as pe-
gconmic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sand ovr to                         ceatag  of total adult popolu-iuc  sgcd 15 y-oac  end  -.or.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 y.ars
Family planning - acceptorm fecumulative. thou) - C,umlativa nubr of a.ccptor.                   HoaveIng
of birth-control devices undar auspices of national family plsnniea program,                  Perons par room  (urban) -A .... g ou-o- o,f pareous pelr-co  in occupied
since Inception,                                                                                conetional deelliags In ulban urca; d.allioga notlu.d.  bnm-p.rn-at
Pemily planning   usears (I of married woman) - Percentages of married women of                    atutraad unocupied porte.
child-bearing age (15-44 yeare) who use birth-control devices to all married                  Occupied dwellinos without piped oei_et_C)    0-cpiod c-yentional duallioga
wmnIn same age group.                                                                        in urban sand rure1 araa nithout i..id.    .-.rtId. piped  -uer facilities 
DEployment                                                                                       Aes  to electricity (% of al   ulius    C- cc-ti-Ia dullitigs with
Total labor forces  thousandl - foonomial-ly active perean, LInlding armed                         el-ctrinity in living qu-arter  se par-t of total dwellings in urban sand
force  sod unemployed but excluding houseweives, students, etc.; definition.                     -rurlres
inv "ss    onrim" are not comparable.                                                  coral dwellings conneted to . rrctj,    Computed ae shon  f.r rurs1
Labor freiarcuture (,    Agricultural labor farce (in farming, forestry,                           dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) ae percentage of itetl labor force.
D Plaepivd Cl of labor force) - Ememplayed are usually defined as pereona who                  counaomtion
are able end willing to take a job, Out of a job on a given day, remained out                 Radio ra...ivare (par thou MaP)  All  ypc of re...ivare  for r-dio br-ud-te
of a job, and see king werk for a specified minimum period net e..ceeding on                     to gene.ral public per thousan d of popolutiot; excldes  -rU-cn-d r ..civer.
week; may not be comparable het-ee  countries due to different definitions                      In   -tunrisa and in years char, r-ci.,tint,  of radio .ets u.s in effect;
of unemployed sand source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, zample                   data for recen.t yeer  nay not bo  -op-rbir sinc  e.-   -ontrira  abolished
sureys, compulsory uneseploymont inaur'ane.                                                      licensing.
P'sasercr   cr hupp- asagrcr   opri-c -o r.tr  sauting
Income distribution - Perenatage, of private incom  (both in cash end kind)                        lese4than might pa-ao      ... eacidasohlece  h.srase and oilitary
recsived by richest 5t, riebeet 201, poorest 201, and poores.t 401 of houss-                     vuhicls..
holds,                                                                                        Electricity ikbLyLRLpr cap) - Annual  -oauptien of industrial,ceril
public and private elec tricity In kilowatt hours per capita, ganaraIly
Distribution of land ownership - Pe-rcetges of lend owneod by wealthiest 10%                       bas..d on productio  data, nithout alwnefor losses in grids but allo--
and poorest 101 of land owners.                                                                  ing for imparts and expor,ta of sl1-tri,city.
Newsprint (bayr par cap) - Par c.pita annual contemstion in kilogram
Health sand Nutrition                                                                              eatimated from  domestic production plus sec Imporcs of naw-print.
population par Physician - Population divided by n. ber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEV3LOPIEIT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 - USS 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77                                                                ANNIIAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. o  Stant prioes)
USs Bin.       ;                                                 1960/61-1964/65       1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices              86.04       100.0                                                     5.9                  5.8                   2.9
Gross Domestic Investment         16.62        19.3
Gross National Saving             18.18        21.1
Current Account Balance            1.56         1.8
Resource Gap                       0.95         1.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODU      DITY IN 1975/76
aue Added (at faotor cost)                Dabo For                    V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln               %                 vii,         6 %T                     % of Natira_   Ave AR
Agrtoultixre                      30 2                43                  179.0       69                169           63
Industry                          16.7                24                   33.9      13                 494          193
Services                          23.4                33                   48.0       18                488          133
Total/average                     70 3               100                  261       100                 277          100
GOV34MENT PIRANCE
Ceneral Govaeruent                                                   G Central Government
(RS._Ilni% of GIP                                                   ER =s'  In               of GDP
197677        1976T77    1974/75_1976/77                            19;6/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current ReceiPts                    147.46          19.1            17.9                                  85.78          10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures                140.18          18.2            16.2                                  84.25          10.9            9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               7.28           0.9             1.7                                 - 0.47            -             0.8
Capittl Expenditures A/              59.05           7.6             7.1                                 40.39            5.2            5.0
External Aesietance (net)            11.21           1.5             1.7                                  11.21           1.5            1.7
0NWEr  GPT AID PRICIE              1970/71     J19 U         1973/74      1974/75    A /76         1976/77       September 1976       September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi lone                105.7        142.2        169.0        186.9        215.0        262.6            238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Publio Sctcr(net)  56.9           82.5         92.9        102.6        1O9.1        117.3            112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        56.7         76.o         90.1        109.5        127.5        161.0            144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                               January 1977        January 1978
Money and Quasi Money a S of GIR   24.3           27.3         26.4         25.5         27.6         31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                  100.0        116.2        139.7       174.9        173.0        176.6            178.8               183.3
AnnLal percentage changes in,
Wholesale Prios Index                 7.7         10.0         20.2         25.2         -1.1          2.1             7.5                 2.5
Banik Credit to Publio Sector (net)  8.6          19.6         12.6         10.4          6.3         7.5              4 7!/              15.81/
Bank Credit to Private Seotor        17.3         18.0         18.5         21.5         16.4        26.3             24.9 J              i .9.J
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Q/ Quick Estimates.
Q/ Computed from trend line of G1NP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted oat.
N/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALlNCZ OF PAOF                        1974/75       f7                l           197t/78 _Nbj                           DISE IPOTS (A EC  1974/75 , 1976/77)
FUR  Nillien)                                                                               .
Exports of Goods                         4,174        4,665          5,760         6,400                             Vagineering Goods          515           11
Imports of Cocd                         -5,665       -6,084         -5,950         -6,600                            Suga                       379            8
Trade Bsllacl                          -1,491        -1,419         -  10        -  200                            TN                          296            6
ip73 (net)                                 215          310            405            500                            Jute lsnufactures          294             6
Leather and Leather
Resouroo                                -1,278       -1,109            215           300                                     Products           268            5
) v                                 - 130                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Clothing    257             5
Int"eret Pav_nto (Mt t-  1  98                       -  216         -  135        -  130                             Iron Ore                   238            5
Other Faotor Payments (net)                 -            -              -                                            G Cotton Textiles          223            5
Net Transfers J/                           257           470           730          1,000                            Ot8e66A2
!otsl                                    0
Balance on Current Ac5o8t               -1,217       -  855            8I0          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                         BXTiL DIFT. MARCH 31. 1977-a"
Disbursaemnts                        1,761        2,341         1,953          1,840                                                                 08t Billion
Amortization                          -515         -531          -560         - 630                             Outstanding and Disbursed                13.6
Transactions with DIF                      522          242          -356          - 330                            Vndisbursed                                3. 2
All Other Items                           -569         -403          -292              23                            Outstanding,includingUndisbursed         16.0
Increse in Reserves ()                      38         -794        _1,575         -2,073                              M   SERVICE RATIO 17OR 1976/n         14.4   peroent
Cross Reserves (end year)                1.378        2,172         3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  kI                758        1,365         3,276          5,670                             INiID& LENDING. December 511  1977  (US$ Ian.)
Fuel and Related Material                                                                                                                              IBRD        IDA
Imports                                  1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                              Outstanding and Disbursed         489.0     3,560.5
of which: Petroleum                   1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                              Undisbursed                       674.9     1,257.0
Outstanding, including
Erports                                     26           43            37         n.a.                                    Undisbureed               1,163.9      4,817.5
of which. Petroleum                      17           22            21   n       a
RATR CF EXCRUCG
Prior to mid-Deoember 197t          0 881 .00 = Rs 7.5                                                              After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
RB  1.00 = 0S80.133333                                                           Spot Rate January 31, 197S
Mid-Deeember 1971 to           I   VS81.00   Re 7.27927                                                                        approx. VSt.00 = Re 8.063
nd June 1972                    Re 1.00 = US$0.137376                                                                       approx. Rs 1.00 = US50.124
j/ Estimated,
F/ iguree given cover all investment incom  (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans  and
barges paid to 3II, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
.1/ Figures given incude workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is included
within official aid disburements.
k/  Exoludes net use of IV orsdit.
l/  Amortisation and intrst payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise  xports.



ANNEX II
Page £ of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31,   1978)
Loan or                                                                                                US$ Millionr/
Credit No.          Year      Borrower                      Purpose                                 (Net of Cancellation)
Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                   1,2 Q.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                              2,604.6
267-IN              1971       India         Wheat Storage                                      --        5.0         3.4
294-IN              1972       India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                         --       14.0         9.1
312-IN              1972       India         Population                                         --       21.2         6.1
342-IN              1972       India         Education                                          --       12.0         9.3
356-IN              1972       India         IDBI                                               --       25.0        10.5
377-IN              1973       India         Power Transmission III                             --       85.0         3.1
378-IN              1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                        --        8.0         6.9
902-IN              1973       ICICI          Industry DFC X                                   67.5       --          5.8
390-IN              1973       India         Bombay Water Supply                                --       55.0        25.3
403-IN              1973       India          Telecommunications V                              --       80.0         3.4
427-IN              1973       India          Calcutta Urban Development                        --       35.0        10.1
440-IN              1973       India          Bihar Agricultural Credit                         --       32.0        14.9
456-IN              1974       India          HP Apple Processing & Marketing                   --       13.0         9.9
481-IN              1974       India          Trombay IV                                        --       50.0        11.6
1011-IN              1974       India          Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                          52.0       --         34.8
482-IN              1974       India          Karnataka Dairy                                   --       30.0        26.0
502-IN              1974       India          Rajasthan Canal CAD                               --       83.0        52.5
520-IN              1974       India          Sindri Fertilizer                                 --       91.0        18.2
521-IN              1974       India          Rajasthan Dairy                                   --       27.7        25.8
522-IN              1974       India          Madhya Pradesh Dairy                              --       16.4        15.3
526-IN              1975       India         Drought Prone Areas                                --       35.0        24.3
1079-IN              1975        IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                                109.0        --        66.2
1097-IN              1975       ICICI          Industry DFC XI                                 100.0       --         27.4
532-IN              1975       India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                        --       45.0        22.2
541-IN              1975       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development               --       34.0        25.4
562-IN              1975       India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                       --       24.0        18.4
572-IN              1975       India          Rural Electrification                             --       5710        46.0
582-IN              1975       India         Railways XIII                                      --      110.0        16.7
585-IN              1975       India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                         --       40.0        36.4
598-IN              1975       India          Fertilizer Industry                               --      105.0        90.8
604-IN              1976       India          Power Transmission IV                             --      150.0       149.6
609-IN              1976       India          Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                      --        4.0         3.8
610-IN              1976       India          Integrated Cotton Development                     --       18.0        17.7
616-IN              1976       India          Industrial Imports XI                             --      200.0         1.7
1251-IN(TW)          1976       India          Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                       145.0       --        142.8
1260-IN              1976       India          IDBI II                                          40.0                  37.0
1273-IN              1976       India          National Seed                                     25.0      --         25.0
1313-IN              1976       India          Telecommunications VI                            80.0       --         36.1
1335-IN              1976        BMRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                            25.0       --        21.2
680-IN              1977       India          Kerala Agricultural Development                   --       30.0        30.0
682-IN              1977       India          Orissa Agricultural Development                    --      20.0        20.0
685-IN              1977       India          Singrauli Thermal Power                           --      150.0       137.0
687-IN              1977       India          Madras Urban Development                          --       24.0        23.5
695-IM              1977       India          Gujarat Fisheries                                  --       4.0         4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977       India          Gujarat Fisheries                                14.0        --        14.0
690-IN              1977       India          West Bengal Agricultural Development              --       12.0        12.0
712-IN              1977       India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development            --       10.0        10.0
715-IN              1977       India          Second ARDC Credit                                 --     200.0       175.9
720-IN              1977       India          Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                         --       23.0        23.0
728-IN              1977       India          Assam Agricultural Development                    --        8.0         8.0
1473-IN              1977       India          Bombay High Offshore Development                 150.0       --       104.5
736-IN              1977       India         Maharashtra Irrigation                             --       70.0        70.0
737-IN              1977       India          Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                  --       13.0        13.0
740-IN              1977       India          Orissa Irrigation                                 --       58.0        58.0
1475-IN              1977        ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                  80.0       --        79.0
* 747-IN               1978       India         Second Foodgrain Storage                           --     107.0       107.0
* 756-IN               1978       India         Second Calcutta Urban Development                  --       87.0       87.0
A 761-IN               1978       India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research            --        8.0        8.0
*1511-IN               1978       India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                          25.0       --        25.0
Total                                                                   2,013.1  4,933.9
of which has been repaid                                                854.4      35.5
Total now outstanding                                                  1 158.7  4,898.4
Amount Sold                                133.2                        1
of which has been repaid                111.5                            21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                          1,137.0  4,898.4
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                           593.8  1,299.0
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                               April 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                               Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8       1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                            6.6        -        6.6
TOTAL                            49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                               6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                           14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                         6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                         22.9       6.5       29.4
Undisbursed                       5.3        -         5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
1/
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,893
million as of March 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects.  ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
73% and 88% of total loan amounts respectively as of March 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$15.9 million project, co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses envisaged
under the project (as revised) were completed and became operational in 1975.
The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after
delays due to cement shortages and is expected to be completed by December
1978. The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain
Storage Study was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating
the proposal for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in
February/March 1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. The project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice processing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377 was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date to September 30, 1978
(originally September 30, 1977). However an amount of US$84 million had been
disbursed by the end of March 1978 and the balance of US$1 million should
be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disbursements under
Part A of Credit 604 (US$120 million) have been slow with only US$0.4 mil-
lion disbursed at March 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50
million had been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate.
This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million under Part B to
meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; of this
amount some US$26 million has been committed leaving an amount of US$4 million
for load despatch equipment which should be committed by June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX lIt
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975; Closing Date:  March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good althotugh project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer thani expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the currenit situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by Marcth 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock.  Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investrmnent
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Becaise of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million ciedit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; 118$8,J ituil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  Se-u  ,er_ 7, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishmenc Oif whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka.  I'iogres. ,uJer
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory.  The pro j,i            e
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) siatf and
evaluation of the project's economic impact.  As of June 30, i9?7  develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markeLs.  Tlhe refiain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctikns uhad beer
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets.  Farrners and tj:aders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficie-t niarketing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project was last reviewed
appraisals for 36 of the 39 project market yard plans had been completed by
participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in
progress at 33 markets. In an attempt tb accelerate project progress, more
liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries
(MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is expected to be
completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve its major
objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and improving
farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date:  May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Daty : March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of
water treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August
1977) has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to
proceed, so that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled
for 1980 two years later than originally forecasted. Financial performance
of the project entity is satisfactory and all covenants are being met.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 1-5
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.  Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory. An April 1978 mission which supervised Cr. 720
Periyar Yaigai found that construction of the project commenced in March 1978.
The Public Works Department (PWD) has set up a strong construction organization
headed by a Special Chief Engineer in order to complete the project on schedule.
Monitoring of flows in irrigation canals will start in June 1978. A system
operation plan is under preparation and GOTN has appointed a Committee to
study water and water-related charges in Tamil Nadu.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expected to improve considerably during the next twelve
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, particularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 16, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now twelve States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time of



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the cumulative
value of contracts entered into or about to be entered into at February 28,
1978 was US$50.32 million leaving an outstanding uncommitted balance of
US$6.68 million. The full amount of the Credit is expected to be committed
by mid 1978 and it should be fully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project. Dis-
bursements as of March 31, 1978 were 85% of the total credit amount.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states.  The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. (Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit.) A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project supports seed industry expansion in the public and
private sectors; improvements in seed quality control; strengthening of
breeding and seed technology research; and development of a reserve stock
scheme. Institutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly
at the state level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project imple-
mentation, however, slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to
organizational problems. Project progress is now being made since approval
of the project by the new Government in September 1977 and is anticipated
to gain further momentum as GOI is about to appoint the two top officers
of the National Seeds Corporation.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed somewhat because of delays in pro-
curement action. However, contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single
deck and 175 double deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have
been delivered.  Bids for an additional 200 buses are being evaluated.  Civil
works contracts have been awarded for 8 to 15 bus facilities, and 13 of about
traffic engineering schemes.  Delays are expected in implementing some BMC
traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps are
being taken to minimize such delays.  Consultants in organization, adminis-
tration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Devel-
opment Authority. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corp-
oration and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have selec-
ted consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management assist-
ance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Singrauli project is the first stage of the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in the Gov-
ernment's program for the development of large Central thermal power stations
feeding power into an interconnected grid. It is proposed that the Bank
Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to
construct and operate these power stations, and the development program has
gotten off to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily and the project is proceeding on schedule with land acquisi-
tion almost complete. Site levelling is in progress and contracts have been
awarded for major plant (turbogenerators, boilers, transformers).
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and are expected to be commissioned
by May 1978. Bids for well and processing platforms at Bassein have been
received and are under review. Disbursements increased rapidly during March
at US$45.5 million and is expected to keep pace with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project.
About one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
The Government of Andhra Pradesh, Department
of Fisheries.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project.
July 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
September 19, 1977.
(e) Date of Completion of negotiations.
April 24, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
September 1978
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions.
(a)  GOAP would include the harbor entrance at Nizapatnam
within the seaward limits of the port under the juris-
diction of SPD and would use its best efforts to ensure
a water depth of not less than 1.0 meter at low water
in the entrance channel (para 41).
(b) VPT in conjunction with Andhra Pradesh would make pro-
vision for endorsement of bank liens on licenses of
fishing vessels registered at Visakhapatnam (para 43).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) ARDC would prepare a banking plan (Condition of
Effectiveness, para. 44).
(d) GOAP would undertake the overseas study tour by
December 31, 1979 and APFC would construct and
operate two experimental trawlers by December 31,
1981 (para. 45).
(e) A project engineer to help with detail design for
Kakinada and Nizampatnam and the naval architect to
help design the two wooden hull trawlers would be
hired by December 1978 and 1979 respectively (para 45).
(f) APFD would establish Fisheries Terminal Organizations
(FTOs) in Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Nizampatnam
harbors to supervise and administer shore facilities
(para. 46).
(g) APFD would establish a Catch Monitoring Unit (CMU)
and a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) by
December 31, 1978 and develop a detailed work plan
for catch monitoring by June 30, 1979 (para. 46).
(h) APFC would establish a Project Management Unit and a
Financial Control Unit and assign three managers by
June 30, 1979 to oversee operations at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam (para. 48).
(i) GOAP would provide to APFC Rs 2 million share capital
by June 30, 1979 and Rs 3 million share capital by
June 30, 1980 (para 49).
(j) GOAP would complete the evaluation of assets trans-
ferred to APFC by June 30, 1979 and submit a summary
of the evaluation report upon completion to IDA
(para 49).
(k) VPT would operate by December 31, 1978 the fishing
harbor slipway and repair facilities at Visakhapatnam
(para. 50).
(1)  GOAP would establish the Project Coordinating Com-
mittee and membership on existing GOI Central
Coordinating Committee would be extended to include
representation from Andhra Pradesh (Conditions of
Effectiveness) (para 52).
(m)  The Visakhapatnam Port Trust would construct and ad-
minister the harbor works at Visakhapatnam (para 57).






. .1                  78- '                  /9-                   86                      81-82-                                        83-                                         85-
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FISHERIES PROJECT   j°
Project Districts and Areas
5-                                                          r                                                                                                            :bD/ 5'9/+AUL 
>                           J                      Hyde-cobo\d                                                                           _                                                                              KHAMMAM ASTi<
'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dv
t.,< .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  /  Di0o   B~aoo s/
Iq 3-                            -.b.d          ¢                    {:                                   eev--B
Cj    A N A N T      N I  A   M ABDU RIRI               GA   ELLOR   E                                   5                                       R It K A              -.KJ
WARANGAL                                VISAKHAPATNA~~~~~~~*                                                   HN
t-  | 't *$'t;) < <q/UD D A P A H_)) \ / j0  20  40  40 ao 0C 10020 ff80 16C1 180 2CIC 220                                                                       Ca4       BJiQ       a 
0e k,~              2f                       f 40H8LT TXX 400                                                                        17OH.b0        140                           IN DIA M  EURMA
Brngclore .  ,,     i 5                                                                                    sa  an ,/g. ~tpsfXwSrwJ ajaWEST              PfrJt \                                  17
G  OD  AVAR         k 73-  79S                                             h 8ra *   Site$
0  hnnd$fta.6O~~~~  mw' am   0' 0.5-6.'   same.          ~       0     ci
...d.                                         -     Maj., HigvtI."
78~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-



