CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 815-IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 815-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and the State of Andhra Pradesh, the State of Andhra
Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of
the carrying out of the Project; and
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation,
the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Agreements
of even date herewith referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applic, le to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association beinf. hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "ARDC" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the Asso-
ciation and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time and such term includes all agreements supplemen-
tal to the ARDC Agreement;
(e) "Participating Banks" means banks listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act of 1934;
(f) "APFC" means Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Corporation
Private Limited, a corporation established and operating under the
Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower;
(g) "VPT" means Visakhapatnam Port Trust, a Port Trust
established and operating under the Major Port Trust Act, 1963 of
the Borrower;
(h) "APFD" means Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Department; and
(i) "SPD" means the State Ports Department of Andhra
Pradesh.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million and five hundred thousand dollars
($17,500,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall b governed by the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending
February 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit


﻿-4-
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Andhra Pradesh and ARDC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the ARDC Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh and ARDC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of
the Credit, funds equivalent to $13,600,000 to Andhra Pradesh and
VPT in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India and its agencies.
(c) The Borrower shall relend funds equivalent to $3,900,000
out of the proceeds of the Credit to ARDC under financial arrange-
ments to be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC which
includes terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement or such other terms and conditions as shall be agreed
among the Borrower, the Association and ARDC.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause VPT to make necessary
arrangements for the operation of the fishing harbor, slipway and
repair facilities at Visakhapatnam harbor by December 31, 1978 or
such later date as the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Central Coordina-
ting Committee established under Development Credit Agreement No.
695-IN (Gujarat Fisheries Project) dated April 22, 1977 between
the Borrower and the Association to provide policy guidance and
work coordination under the Project. This Committee shall include
a representative from Andhra Pradesh.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause VPT, in conjunction
with Andhra Pradesh, to make provision for endorsement of bank
liens on licenses of fishing vessels registered at Visakhapatnam
harbor by June 30, 1979 or such later date as the Association
shall otherwise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-5-
(a) Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement;
(c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or
may be distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Andhra Pradesh will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement, or (ii) ARDC.
will be able to perform its obligations under the ARDC Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh or ARDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events   are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Andhra Pradesh has been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary governmental action;


﻿-6-
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of ARDC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action;
(c) a banking plan satisfactory to the Association has been
prepared by ARDC under Part C of the Project; and
(d) the Project Coordinating Committee has been duly estab-
lished by Andhra Pradesh.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andhra
Pradesh in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC and is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
tith its terms.
Section 5.03. The dat2 September 19, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            312282 or
New Delhi                           313546
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   11,300,000        50%
(2) Equipment and                    800,000
materials
(a) directly im-                               100% of for-
ported                                    eign expendi-
tures
(b) manufactured                               100% of local
locally                                   expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported and                               50%
procured lo-
cally
(3) Loan by ARDC                   3,900,000        55%
(4) Consultants' ser-              1,200,000       100%
vices, study tour
and two experi-
mental trawlers
(5) Unallocated                      300,000
TOTAL         17,500,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000
may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made
for expenditures on civil works at Kakinada harbor before that
date but after February 28, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   1.   Construction of quay and jetty facilities and
buildings; expansion of slipway facilities; comple-
tion of roads, drains and culverts; provision of
electrical and water supply systems; acquisition of
land and dredging at Visakhapatnam harbor.
2.   Construction of breakwater, four jetties for
mechanized fishing vessels and one jetty for
trawlers; dredging of trawler basin and channel;
construction of boat repair facility, buildings and
roads; and provision of drainage, power, light,
w.ter and fuel supply facilities at Kakinada
harbor.
3.   Completion of quay, revetments, boat ramp, work-
shop, buildings and approach road; dredging of
harbor basin; and provision of harbor working
area, fuel and marine facilities, and drainage,
power, light and water supply systems at Nizampat-
nam harbor.
Part B:   Improvement and construction of about 215 kilometers of
coastal fishing village access roads in Visakhapatnam,
East Godavari and Guntur districts and a water supply
system for Nizampatnam village.
Part C:   A credit program to finance:
(i) Procurement of about 300 mechanized fishing ves-
sels, 10 meters long; about 60 mechanized fishing
vessels, 9 meters long; and about 60 non-mechanized
fishing vessels, 12 meters long; and
(ii) construction of two seafood processing plants one
each at Visakhapatnam and Nizampatnam harbors.


﻿- 12 -
Part D:  Provision of about 9 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices and 20 man-months of overseas study tour and
construction of two experimental wooden hull shrimp
trawlers, 23 meters lon$.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of equipment for seafood processing plants estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more each or for civil works at
Visakhapatnam and Kakinada harbors shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall cause to be prepared and forwarded to the Association as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall cause to be provided the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment, including those
under Part B of this Schedule, shall be grouped so as to encourage
competition and to permit bulk procurement consistent with appro-
priate technical and procurement practices.
4.   VPT and SPD shall be responsible for the civil works con-
tracts under this Part.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works at Nizampatnam harbor and improve-
ment and construction of village access roads, water supply system
and seafood processing plants shall be let on the basis of local


﻿-14-
competitive bidding and in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.   Contracts for dredging works at Viskhapatnam, Kakinada and
Nizapatnam harbors shall be executed through force 'account.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 each shall be
let on the basis of local competitive bidding and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 each may be
procured by prudent shopping through normal commercial channels.
5.   Fishing vessels procured by ultimate borrowers under the
credit program provided for under Part C (i) of the Project shall
be in accordance with the ultimate borrowers' preference.
6.   Construction of two experimental shrimp trawlers under Part
D of the Project shall be made by Kakinada Boat Building Yard of
APFC.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) G roup B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment and to be procured in accordance with the procedures des-
cribed in Part A.1 of this Schedule, a margin of preference of


﻿- 16 -
7-1/2% may be granted to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works at Visakhapat-
nam and Kakinada harbors:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause Andhra
Pradesh to furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, cause
Andhra Pradesh to inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall cause Andhra Pradesh to furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and Andhra Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75%, less 0.25% for
prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25%, less 0.25% for
prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) Borrower to carry exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 8%.
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately ;with
collections from ultimate borrowers.
(c) Refinancing by loans not exceeding 80% of individual
loans.
3.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) A loan ceiling of:
(i) 80% for fishing vessels procured by cooperatives or
seafood processing plant of APFC: and
(ii) 85% for fishing vessels procured by private com-
panies and individuals.
(b) Annual interest rate of 11%.


﻿.19
- 19 -
(c) Repayment periods not exceeding:
(1) 8 years including a grace period not exceeding 1
year from the date of each withdrawal for 9 meters
and 10 meters mechanized fishing vessels procured
by cooperatives;
(ii) 6 years including a grace period not exceeding one-
half year from the date of each withdrawal for 12
meters non-mechanized fishing vessels; and
(iii) 10 years including a grace period not exceeding 1
year from the date of each withdrawal for seafood
processing plants of APFC.
(d) An evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of project invest-
ments may be charged.
4.   General
(a) ARDC and the Participating Banks to maintain separate
accounts for each of the above financing schemes.
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between
Participating Banks and ARDC.
(c) ARDC to assist Participating Banks and ultimate bor-
rowers in the preparation and evaluation of investment
plans.
(d) ARDC to assist APFC in the improvement of its financial
management.


