CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 815-IN
ARDC Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 815-IN
ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter
called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million and five hundred
thousand dollars ($17,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that ARDC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit
will be made available to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall take all steps as shall be necessary
on its part to assist the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project and shall do so in accor-
dance with a banking plan satisfactory to the Association. ARDC


﻿-2-
shall act with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
Section 2.02. ARDC shall enter into financial arrangements
with the Borrower on terms and conditions which shall include
inter alia those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARDC
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the provisions of
said financial arrangements.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out Part C of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, ARDC and the
Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ARDC: (i) shall maintain records and
set up and maintain procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Part C of the Project (including its cost), and to
evaluate its impact, and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; and (ii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, its impact, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and ARDC, ARDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation


﻿- 3 -
of Part C of the Project, its cost and benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Association and ARDC
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit so relent to it.
Section 2.07. (a) ARDC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion:
(i) exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part C of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit; and
(ii) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request in respect
of Part C of the Project.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the pro-
gress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent technical staff in adequate number; and (ii) take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of Part C
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. ARDC shall cause the Participating Banks (i) to
maintain separate accounts for loans made in respect of Part C of
the Project; and (ii) to send to the Association through ARDC
their audited accounts (together with an analysis of overdue and
bad debts and a statement certified by ARDC of their Project
lending) not later than four months after the end of each of their
fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agrement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARDC of this event.


﻿- 5 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation
Shriniketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS, WORLI
Bombay 18, India


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement, on behalf of ARDC, may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative


