                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2080



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48320; TF-57329)

                                  ON A LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                             AND A GRANT FROM

                        THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO10.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR THE

 CHANGJIANG AND PEARL RIVER WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT



                               November 28, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

                        Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y)
                                 Y 1 = USD 0.157
                            US$ 1.00 = Y 6.37

                                FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 – June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPIO     Central Project Implementation Office
CPMO     Central Project Management Office
CPRWRP   Changjiang and Pearl River Watershed Rehabilitation Project
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
EC       European Community
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FM       Financial Management
GPS      Global Positioning System
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IP       Implementation Performance
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
ISR      Implementation Supervision Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MWR      Ministry of Water Resources
NDRC     National Development and Reform Commission
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMO      Project Management Office
RBMP     EU-China River Basin Management Programme
TTL      Task Team Leader

                          Vice President: Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                        Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                         Sector Manager: Mark Lundell, EASCS
                    Project Team Leader: Gayane Minasyan, EASCS
                       ICR Team Leader: Josef Ernstberger




                                         i
                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
             Changjiang and Pearl River Watershed Rehabilitation Project



                                                     CONTENTS




A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iii
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iii
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iii
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... iv
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iv
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. x
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47
Annex 7 (additional). Management Information System (MIS)................................... 49
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
Map – IBRD 33735....................................................................................................... 53
Map – IBRD 33736....................................................................................................... 54




                                                              ii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Changjiang/Pearl River
Country:                China                     Project Name:            Watershed
                                                                           Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P081255                   L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-48320,TF-57329
ICR Date:               11/28/2012                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                           CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M               Disbursed Amount:        USD 97.58M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 99.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
European Commission

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process               Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/12/2004      Effectiveness:              10/26/2006       10/26/2006
                                                                                   12/22/2009
Appraisal:            10/20/2005      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   06/28/2012
Approval:             06/27/2006      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                    06/30/2012       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                 iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Marginally Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                     20                   20
Crops                                                                 22                   25
Flood protection                                                      15                   20
Forestry                                                              23                   20
Irrigation and drainage                                               20                   15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                    17                   10
Other environment and natural resources management                    33                   30
Other rural development                                               16                   20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                   20
Water resource management                                             17                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Gayane Minasyan                      Achim Fock
ICR Team Leader:           Josef Ernstberger
ICR Primary Author:        Josef Ernstberger




                                               iv
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve farmers’
livelihood and protect the environment in poor and highly degraded watersheds of the
Changjiang and Pearl River Basin by promoting an integrated and replicable model of
sustainable rural development.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
                  Farmers income increased measured as per capita income increase, yield
Indicator 1 :
                  increase, variability of income.
Value                                                               2,150.00            4,533.00
                  Income-Average: RMB               2,150.00
quantitative or                                                    RMB/year/          RMB/year/
                  1,146/year/capita            RMB/year/capita
Qualitative                                                           capita             Capita
Date achieved             05/17/2006              12/11/2011       12/11/2011         06/05/2012
                  Net income increases from project activities for typical farms ranged between
                  RMB557 and RMB4,368 per capita/year. The lower value refers to farms in
Comments
                  difficult karst environments that benefited from terraces, livestock and biogas.
(incl. %
                  Farms that also engaged in fruit trees could increase income by RMB2,198 per
achievement)
                  capita/year. The project has achieved an average net income increase higher than
                  the appraisal estimate with most farms exceeding expectations significantly.
                  Outreach and equity measured as number of beneficiary households,
Indicator 2 :
                  disaggregated by gender, income level, and ethnic minority.
                                                                                 71% of all HH in
                                                                                 all selected sub-
                                                                 60% of all HH watersheds, 72% of
                                               60% of all HH in in all selected all ethnic minority
Value                                          all selected sub- sub-            households, 76% of
                  0% of all households in
quantitative or                                 watersheds and watersheds        all poor households,
                  selected sub-watersheds
Qualitative                                    66% of all ethnic and 66% of all and 21% female-
                                                minority HHs. ethnic             headed households
                                                                 minority HHs. out of all
                                                                                 participating
                                                                                 households.
Date achieved             05/17/2006              12/11/2011       12/11/2011         05/25/2012
Comments          Of all households in the project area, 71% benefitted directly from the project. Of
(incl. %          all ethnic minority households in the project area, 72% benefited from the

                                                  v
achievement)    project. Both values exceeded the appraisal targets of 60% and 66%. The project
                reached 76% of all poor households in the project areas (no target was set at
                appraisal). Of all beneficiary households, 21% were women-headed households.

                Erosion reduction by the reduced amount of silt inflow in downstream river
Indicator 3 :
                systems (million tons/annum)
Value
quantitative or               0                      5.2
Qualitative
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011
Comments        During the first restructuring of the project this indicator was cancelled and
(incl. %        replaced by the indicator 4 below, since it was considered difficult to quantify the
achievement) reduced silt inflow in the downstream river systems
                Area treated and achieving 50% long term reduction in on site erosion. (Indicator
Indicator 4 :
                newly introduced during the first restructuring of the project)
Value
quantitative or            0 km2                    NA              1,750 km2         1,769 km2
Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011         12/11/2011         06/06/2012
                The Soil and Water Conservation Monitoring Center of the Pearl River Hydro-
                conservancy Committee estimated the total project area where a 50% long-term
                erosion reduction was achieved at 1,769 square kilometers. The most immediate
Comments        impact in form of erosion reduction was observed on terraces, grassland and in
(incl. %        economic tree plantations while conservation forests and closure areas will take
achievement) time for the vegetative cover to develop its protection function. Soil conservation
                tillage contributed to a reduction in soil erosion on an additional 510 square
                kilometers. This area is not included in the actual achieved area as it is uncertain
                if the reduction in erosion can reach the 50% target.
                Total amount of carbon sequestrated through increases in the amount of biomass
Indicator 5 :
                (measured in tons).
Value
quantitative or             0 tons                580,000            300,000           391,000
Qualitative
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011         12/11/2011         05/31/2012
                A survey of project sites estimated the incremental carbon sequestered at project
                end at 391,000 tons compared to the revised target of 300,000 tons. Since
                plantations and conservation forests are still immature, the amount of carbon
Comments        sequestered is small. Projections based on similar vegetation and agro-climatic
(incl. %        conditions estimate the total amount of carbon sequestered by plantations and
achievement) protection activities to be between 5.8-8.3 million tons after 10 years and
                between 11.4-16.2 million tons after 20 years. If the lower band projections and a
                conservative price assumption of US$10/ton are used, the value of carbon
                sequestration benefits would reach US$114 million.
Indicator 6 : Replicability and sustainability
                                                                                 Specific
Value                                                            Project is      management
quantitative or               --                    NA           replicable and procedures are
Qualitative)                                                     sustainable. likely to be
                                                                                 replicated or are

                                                vi
                                                                             already being used
                                                                             in national projects.
                                                                             The project as a
                                                                             whole is replicable
                                                                             with minor changes
                                                                             in procedures and is
                                                                             likely to be
                                                                             sustainable.
Date achieved          05/17/2006                               12/11/2011        05/25/2012
              This qualitative indicator was assessed by an international/national expert team.
              Overall, the expert team deemed the project and its design features replicable
              with minor changes in procedures or national project planning and financing
              mechanisms. The project concept, activities and principles are backed by strong
Comments
              policies and are integrated in the social, legal and administrative system of the
(incl. %
              country. The project is also considered to be sustainable. The integrated
achievement)
              watershed planning and management has built a solid foundation to ensure the
              long-term impact of the project investments. The socio-economic context is
              favorable to soil and water conservation in the project areas. Sustained migration
              to cities will help to decrease pressure on land for cropping purposes.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :    % of area where erosion is controlled
Value
(quantitative               52%                    76%                76%                83.69%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011        12/11/2011          05/25/2012
Comments        Areas were erosion is considered controlled include terraces, forests and closed
(incl. %        shrub-lands, fruit tree orchards and crop lands with soil conservation
achievement) technologies implemented. The target was exceeded.
                Silt retention capacity created (million tons/year) (the final target is 9 million,
Indicator 2 :
                which would be reached in year 15)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      6                 6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011        12/11/2011
Comments
                The silt retention capacity was difficult to quantify and no acceptable
(incl. %
                methodology could be defined under the project
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Area of protection forest and shrub land created (ha)
Value
(quantitative                 0                   41,000             41,000              20,688
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006             12/11/2011        12/11/2011          05/25/2012


                                                 vii
Comments          Plantation of forest and shrub land was reduced, since it was recognized that
(incl. %          closure and protection for natural re-vegetation was often effective, accordingly
achievement)      area closed (Indicator 3) exceeded the original project target.
Indicator 4 :     Area closed for re-vegetation (ha)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      71,000          71,000           112,052
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006              12/11/2011       12/11/2011         05/25/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target area exceeded as explained under Indicator 2 above
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Protected crop land created (ha)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      6,700           6,700               7,761
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006              12/11/2011       12/11/2011         05/25/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Includes 2,947ha of stone-faced and 4,813ha of earth terraces
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Areas developed with economic trees (ha)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      40,000          40,000              33,859
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/17/2006              12/11/2011       12/11/2011         05/25/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Includes development of nut and fruit tree orchards of various kinds
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Livestock households established (#)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      50,000          50,000              30,813
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/17/2006              12/11/2011     12/11/2011          05/25/2012
Comments          The number was reduced, since the project at various points sharpened the
(incl. %          targeting of livestock support towards investments with a clear linkage to soil
achievement)      and water conservation.
Indicator 8 :     Irrigated land developed (ha)
Value
(quantitative                 0                      8,000           8,000                N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/17/2006              12/11/2011        12/11/2011
                  Information about actual irrigated land developed is not available. The initial
Comments          design provided project funds for field irrigation on terraces (pipes, sprinklers,
(incl. %          etc.). During implementation this was considered a private activity to be paid by
achievement)      beneficiaries, while the project only funded infrastructure facilities (tanks,
                  channels).
Indicator 9 :     Bio-gas pits constructed (#)
Value
                              0                      30,000          30,000              22,478
(quantitative

                                                 viii
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/17/2006               12/11/2011        12/11/2011       05/25/2012
Comments
                The project targets were not fully achieved and the scope was reduced, since
(incl. %
                other on-going Government programs also supported bio-digesters.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : % of beneficiary households who will receive training
Value
(quantitative                0                      90%               90%               N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/17/2006               12/11/2011        12/11/2011       05/25/2012
                According to interviews with beneficiaries and implementers, nearly all
Comments        beneficiary households received some type of training; most of them received
(incl. %        different types of training at various stages of the project. The MIS did not
achievement) capture the information correctly as it did not distinguish between first time and
                repeated training.
Indicator 11 : Number of demonstration households
Value
(quantitative                0                      2,000             2,000             N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/17/2006               12/11/2011        12/11/2011       05/25/2012
Comments        The concept of demonstration households was superseded by so-called Lead
(incl. %        Households and no information is available on the actual number of Lead
achievement) Households supported under the project.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     10/12/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory               0.00
  2     06/21/2007           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory               2.25
  3     09/27/2007          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory              2.25
                                                           Moderately
  4     06/29/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                      8.51
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                           Moderately
  5     01/30/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                     10.87
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  6     06/25/2009          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory            10.87
                                                           Moderately
  7     03/16/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                     17.59
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  8     06/28/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      32.71
  9     02/26/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      50.56
 10     09/06/2011         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory      69.21
 11     12/24/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      75.71
 12     07/05/2012         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory             96.67




                                                 ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Construction cost increases and
                                                     dollar devaluation required a
 12/22/2009       N       U      U           11.43
                                                     reduction in the scope of the
                                                     project
                                                     The use of the “grant option for
                                                     the poor?, originally designed to
                                                     only offset loans was widened
 06/28/2012       N       MS    MS           96.67
                                                     to make it available to all poor
                                                     households participating in the
                                                     project


I. Disbursement Profile




                                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. Despite enormous economic success, China was facing considerable social and
environmental challenges at the time the project was conceived. Land degradation was
one of the environmental problems with consequences beyond the country’s boundaries.
Land degradation and erosion were caused by unsustainable land management practices
and, at the same time, were threatening the livelihood of millions of mainly poor people
in rural China. The project aimed at tackling these interrelated problems of environmental
degradation and poverty in areas where they were most severe, namely in the upper
watersheds of the Changjiang and Pearl Rivers.

2. At the time of appraisal, about 38% of the national territory was eroded, almost half
of which (1.79 million square kilometers) was hydraulic erosion. The most serious areas
of hydraulic erosion were located in the middle reaches of the Yellow River, and the
upper reaches of the Changjiang and Pearl Rivers. The Changjiang River Basin alone
covered a total eroded area of 562,000 square kilometers and the induced soil loss
amounted to about 2.4 billion tons annually, most of which were generated in the upper
reaches. Severe forms of land degradation, such as landslides, mud rock flow, and karst
building, were concentrated in the upper reaches of the Changjiang and Pearl Rivers.

3. The impacts of environmental degradation were severe. They ranged from a loss of
vegetation, biomass and biodiversity, and a reduction in soil water storage capacity to an
irreversible destruction of farmland, damaging floods downstream, and climate change at
a regional scale. While the environmental impact was of national and even global
significance, the greatest social costs of the degradation occurred in the upper reaches of
the Changjiang and Pearl Rivers themselves, which are among the poorest areas of China.
The exploitation of forest resources and the growth in agricultural production had
improved rural incomes and living conditions over the past decades but had also
increased socio-economic vulnerability and environmental fragility as the natural
resource base was diminishing. Pressure on land resources driven by the need to generate
income had accelerated the erosion of farmland and was limiting agricultural and
livelihood development options.

4. The project was envisaged to contribute to more environmentally sustainable
development and address the needs of poor and disadvantaged people in lagging regions.
It was intended to accomplish this by promoting the efficient and sustainable use of land
and water resources in severely eroded watersheds. The project sought to introduce an
integrated approach to watershed rehabilitation and management by building on the
Bank’s and the European Commission’s (EC) experience in sustainable watershed
management, including the Red Soils and Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation
Projects and similar projects in other countries. It also sought to improve the rural
business environment and help China accelerate its transition to a market economy by
encouraging active participation of the private sector.



                                            1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

5. The development objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve farmers’
livelihood and protect the environment in poor and highly degraded watersheds of the
Changjiang and Pearl River Basin by promoting an integrated and replicable model of
sustainable rural development.

6. The achievement of the PDO would be measured by the following impact and
outcome indicators: (a) erosion reduction measured through the reduced amount of silt
inflow in the downstream river system; (b) total amount of carbon sequestered, measured
through increases in the amount of biomass; (c) farmers’ income increase measured as
per capita net income directly related to project activities; (d) changes/increases in land
productivity measured by net value of production per land unit; (e) outreach/equity
measured in terms of number of direct beneficiary households (disaggregated by gender
and ethnic minority); and (f) replicability and sustainability looking into such factors as
number of programs using similar models, policy impact, and the linkage of public goods
with private goods activities at the household and village levels.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

7. The PDO remained unchanged throughout the project. Most PDO indicators and
targets remained unchanged with two exceptions: (a) the indicator for soil erosion
reduction was revised to area treated and achieving 50% long term reduction in on-site
erosion as a more measurable way to assess impact on erosion reduction. The original
indicator erosion reduction by the amount of silt inflow in the downstream river system
was unlikely to show measurable results during the life of the project, and results from
the original indicator would have been difficult to be attributed to the project; (b) the
target for carbon sequestration was reduced from 580,000 tons to 300,000 tons.

8. A shortage of funds due to unforeseen price increases and exchange rate changes
required a restructuring of the project with a reduction of its scope.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9. The beneficiaries of the project were farmers and the local communities in the sub-
watersheds, the wider community and local governments, downstream areas and
provinces, the nation and the global community, which would benefit from positive
environmental impacts. The number of beneficiaries targeted at appraisal was 2 million,
but was reduced to 1.3 million at restructuring.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10. The project was designed along three components:



                                              2
Component 1 - Public Interest Soil and Water Conservation (about US$40.4 million)
included public goods investments for soil and water conservation, including:

   •   Stone-face terraces in areas with thin layers of soil with and without
       supplementary water storage facilities. This activity targeted poor mountain
       villages where subsistence food production was important for the local population
       and where the establishment of a minimum amount of high quality farmland was
       a pre-condition for farmers to end non-sustainable land use practices.

   •   Sediment Retention Structures to intercept the sediment at source, check water
       discharge, and slow the flow of flood water in tributary gullies of the major rivers.
       Different types of sediment control dams were constructed, such as check dams,
       drains or sediment deposit pools.

   •   Afforestation and Vegetative Cover and Protection/Closing of degraded forests
       and other slope-land, which included the planting of trees and shrubs, and the
       closing and protection of areas for natural re-vegetation with the primary purpose
       of soil and water conservation and limited commercial use.

   •   Village Infrastructure, which included the construction of drinking water supply
       systems, improvement of access roads, tractor roads and field tracks, where they
       were important to achieve benefits from other project activities and for project
       sustainability.

Component 2 - Livelihood Improvements (about US$140.5 million) included
investments designed to improve the farm income. These investments also aimed at
changing the prevailing unsustainable land use practices and included: Terracing of slope
land, including construction of ‘earth-faced’ terraces on sloping land between 5 to 15%
gradient with incremental crop production expected to generate significant income
increases; Horticulture and Fruit and Nut Trees including the establishment of a broad
range of high value fruit and nut tree orchards; Grasslands, including the establishment
of perennial grassland to improve fodder production and reduce soil erosion; Livestock
Development, including livestock activities that were integrated with soil and water
conservation and targeted at poor households willing to give up grazing or convert
sloping farmland into grassland and forest plantations; Irrigation and Drainage,
including irrigation facilities, small-scale tanks and cisterns to capture runoff and provide
emergency water supply in cases of drought; and Renewable Energy Supply which
supported energy-saving stoves and small-scale bio-gas digesters to contribute to
reduction of forest resources destruction and reduction of household expenditure for fuel.

Component 3 - Project Management and Support Services (about US$16.3 million)
supported the participatory project design process, the management and implementation
of activities under Components 1 and 2, the institutional setting for sustainable operation
and maintenance of project activities, the mitigation of environmental and social risks,
and project management including M&E. In addition to IBRD loan financed activities,


                                             3
training, extension services, and technical assistance were also financed by the
Government and by the EC.

1.6 Revised Components

11. The component structure and project activities remained largely unchanged
throughout the project. The originally designed establishment of water-saving drip
irrigation systems in project orchards for supplementary and emergency watering was
considered unnecessary and not cost-effective and was replaced by alternative water
distribution methods (e.g. use of buckets, small mobile pumps and pipes financed and
implemented directly by beneficiaries). Soil conservation tillage was introduced as a new
activity during implementation. Farmers were trained and encouraged to use contour
planting, contour bunds and hedges combined with low or zero tillage. This was
considered a cost effective method to reduce soil erosion on the remaining cropped
sloping land which could not be terraced. The activity was included into the project
activities with a target area of 33,300 hectares during restructuring.

1.7 Other significant changes

12. The project was first restructured in 2009. The restructuring became necessary to
address a potential funding shortfall due to a 20% depreciation of the US dollar against
the Renminbi as well as domestic price increases for inputs and labor in the range of 60-
100%. Reduced IBRD funds were off-set through increased contributions from
beneficiaries. The total financing envelope of the project was reduced by only about 5%
from originally RMB 1,656 million to RMB 1,573 million.

13. The project benefited from a EUR10 million grant from European Community (EC),
of which US$1 million was delivered as a ‘Grant Option for the Poor.’ In the original
project design, IBRD loan proceeds were to be on-lent to farmers with a requirement for
repayment. The EC-financed grant option was used to help the poorest households pay
back part of the on-lent funds. Towards the end of the project, Chongqing Municipality
and Guizhou Province decided to cancel the farmers’ repayment obligations and absorbed
loan repayment at the provincial level. As a result, the ‘grant option’ was no longer
needed. A second restructuring became necessary in 2012 to allow the ‘grant option’
funds to be fully disbursed prior to project closing and funds were therefore directed to
finance the operation and maintenance of project investments.

14. During implementation, it was also decided to reduce the number of sub-watersheds
from originally 274 to 191. The reason for this decision was to concentrate project
resources in fewer areas to address watershed rehabilitation in a comprehensive way.
Specifically, it was decided to target 70% of total area in each sub-watershed for
treatment and to reach a minimum of 60% of households in the project areas. The
participatory watershed design also required flexibility in the choice of activities to be
implemented in response to the needs and desires expressed by the beneficiaries. During
the restructuring, original output targets were therefore adjusted based on actual
implementation experience. For example, grass planting turned out to be less attractive



                                            4
and related investments were significantly reduced.

15. Finally, complementary government programs also impacted on the project. Many
project villages benefitted from on-going or newly launched public programs to expand
biogas digesters and drinking water supply. As a result, project investments in these
activities were reduced and redirected to activities such as economic tree planting or
tractor road construction, where the original targets were significantly exceeded.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16. The project was requested by the Ministry of Water Resources with the intention to
transfer the experiences from the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Projects, which
had been very successful, to the Changjiang and Pearl River watersheds. The Bank’s
project preparation team consisted of an experienced team of experts who brought to the
project a wide range of relevant skills and in most cases were familiar with the Loess
Plateau Projects. The team worked closely with national experts and conducted a series
of preparation missions, which involved site visits and field assessments, interviews with
a large number of stakeholders at different levels, and study tours to the Loess Plateau.
This process proved to be important to develop an understanding of the similarities and
differences between the Loess Plateau and the Changjiang/Pearl River areas. While the
Loess Plateau experience provided the basis for overall project design, differences in agro
climatic, social and economic conditions required significant conceptual adjustments.

17. Valuable design features maintained and transferred from the Loess Plateau included:
(a) the principle of integrated watershed rehabilitation, which builds on the integration of
income generation activities with environmental stabilization measures; (b) farmer buy-in
by providing livelihood activities that make the project attractive and sustainable; (c) a
combination of bottom-up participation and top-down planning; (d) engagement of
farmers both in the planning and implementation of project measures; and (e) a focus on
reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems.

18. New design features that had not been used in previous projects, included: (a) a better
understanding and clear definition of public and private goods elements in watershed
rehabilitation, which is reflected in the project’s component structure; (b) the adoption of
financing mechanisms linked to the public and private nature of watershed rehabilitation
activities following the principle: ‘who benefits pays’; this included using different shares
of funding for different activities from national, provincial and local government funds,
EC grant and IBRD loan; (c) focus on transparency in the financing of activities down to
the individual, with each farmer receiving a ‘transparency card’, showing the detailed
sources of funding for each activity; and (d) beneficiary participation in the design and
implementation of activities detailed in a Participatory Design Manual.

19. The project was co-financed by the EC with a grant of EURO10 million. Grant funds
were to support poor households and were to be used to: (a) provide co-financing for



                                             5
livelihood activities, which were considered particularly important for poor farmers; and
(b) off-set part of the loan repayment obligations for the poorest households. The EC
grant support allowed for the participation of all households independent of their
individual financial capacity and thus greatly contributed to achieving the project’s aim
of comprehensive coverage, outreach and integrated watershed rehabilitation. The
mechanism to off-set part of the loan repayment obligation was however complicated and
weakly designed and caused implementation delays that needed to be addressed through
project restructuring in 2012.

20. Assessment of project design and preparation: The PDO was well framed and
realistic. The results framework provided a sound basis for implementing, and assessing
progress towards achieving the expected outcomes. The understanding that effective
watershed rehabilitation requires a comprehensive set of integrated activities justified a
relatively complex design. Project preparation was thorough and included the testing of
participatory design methods and full preparation of designs for a first set of sub-
watersheds. As a consequence of the complexity, preparation took about 22 months from
concept to appraisal stage.

21. In hindsight, two design elements turned out to complicate implementation: First,
while the designed financing mechanism was grounded on a sound and well explained
theoretical concept, project design underestimated the complications due to different fund
approval, fund flow and release mechanisms. Second, while the importance of
demographic change was recognized during preparation, project design was probably
built too closely on the status quo. It could have adopted a more flexible approach to take
into consideration and address changes in farm structure and migration out of certain
project areas, for example by integrating emerging larger farms and farmer cooperatives.

22. Risk assessment: Critical risks and mitigation measures were well defined. Overall
project risk was assessed as moderate based on the fact that the project built on tested
technical, institutional and project management experiences from previous successful
projects. The project integrated important risk mitigation measures in the design, notably
in form of participation and measures to ensure participation of smallholder farmers and
ethnic minorities. Risks related to financial management were correctly assessed as
substantial and were addressed through training and internal and external control
mechanisms. The assessment of recognized risks was sound and the designed risk
mitigation measures proved to be effective. Some risks, such as exchange rate and
inflation risk, were underestimated and potential implications not adequately assessed
during design so that a restructuring became necessary.

23. Government commitment and stakeholder involvement: The project built on a long-
term partnership and successful cooperation experience between the Bank and the
Ministry of Water Resources and enjoyed strong government attention and support
combined with a high level of mutual trust and commitment. This included policy,
institutional, as well as financial commitments from the central, provincial and local
governments. The government provided committed and qualified staff and resources for
the coordination and management offices at the national, provincial, municipality and



                                            6
county/city levels.

2.2 Implementation

24. Project implementation was affected by a number of positive and adverse factors.

25. Strong political leadership and highly motivated PMO staff at the CPIO, provincial
and county level. Many leaders took pride in the fact that they were part of an
internationally supported project. This created significant motivation for the PMO staff at
all levels. Most of the PMO staff were already in place during project preparation when
they gained ownership and understanding of the project.

26. Consistency with national policy directions. The project design was consistent and
supportive to higher level national policies. In particular the concept of beneficiaries’
participation in the decision making, design and implementation of watershed
rehabilitation activities was conducive for the project’s implementation. Beneficiary
participation was a declared intention under all national programs and the project
prepared the ground for defining and testing practical ways of how to implement this
policy.

27. Supportive national programs. The implementing agencies were flexible in
coordinating national programs with the project. This flexibility allowed project funds to
be used for complementary activities to achieve the desired level of integration. Mutually
supportive activities included the closing of forest areas for regeneration, the
development of renewable energy programs with several government programs
supporting bio-digesters, investments in drinking water supply, and the village road
program.

28. Strong management and control arrangements. The government was committed to
use this project to improve the management of government funds through improved
reporting and monitoring, control of funds through on-site audits and reimbursement
methods based on fully documented physical implementation progress.

29. Cross-support from the EU- China River Basin Management Program. In addition to
the EC grant, the European Union-China River Basin Management Programme (EU-
China RBMP) provided valuable cross-support to the project in two ways, namely: (a)
through the provision of experts that supported local project management staff; and (b)
through funding of technical assistance in M&E, participatory design, orchard
management, and impact evaluation studies. A number of promotion booklets on these
subject areas and a video documentation on the Monitoring and Management Information
System were prepared by the EU-China RBMP.

30. Different World Bank and Central Government level approval procedures. The Bank
and the EU used a framework approach to appraise the project based on the experiences
from a first set of sub-watershed designs. The framework approach acknowledged that
the detailed quantities of works and activities would not fully be determined a priori
because of the project’s participatory decision making processes. The National


                                            7
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), however, required the detailed
quantification of all works and activities based on a complete design for all sub-
watersheds for its domestic project approval. As a consequence, two different designs
existed for most sub-watersheds throughout implementation. One government approved
design that was the basis for the allocation of central government funds and one design
developed and implemented through participatory procedures during implementation.
This inconsistency in procedures delayed implementation, the release of central
government funds, and ultimately required the restructuring of the project.

31. Price and Exchange rate effects. Unexpected cost escalations affected the project at
the early implementation stage and the depreciation of the US dollar against the local
currency reduced the project funding envelope. These factors led to a reduction in the
total volume of works which the project was able to finance. It also affected
implementation directly. Because project activities were funded on a reimbursement
method using pre-fixed unit cost as a basis, the originally agreed unit costs soon turned
out to be lower than the actual costs and this prevented the implementing agencies to
proceed in the field.

32. Implementation and disbursement progress was slow during the first years of
implementation. Problems caused by the above mentioned approval procedures and
related delays were addressed through an action plan in 2007. Problems caused by the
price increase and exchange rate impacts were addressed through project restructuring at
mid-term. The restructuring was initiated in time and as soon as the need became
apparent in 2008. Internal government approval procedures, however, delayed the
restructuring and overall implementation by one year. Upon completion of the
restructuring, all stakeholders initiated a re-launching of the project with a renewed
commitment in order to catch-up with the delays. During the last two years of the project,
implementation accelerated significantly and nearly all of the remaining activities were
fully implemented and project funds disbursed by project closing.

33. Project Rating. The task team took a candid and proactive approach to assess and
describe problems, as is reflected in the ISRs, and suggested appropriate actions during
the various stages of project implementation. PDO and IP ratings ranged from
unsatisfactory to satisfactory with quick adjustments in response to identified
implementation weaknesses. For example, the ISR of June 2007 rated PDO and IP
‘satisfactory’ while the ISR of September 2007, only three months later, rated PDO and
IP ‘unsatisfactory’. It is understood that these ratings reflected the actual situation and
were used by the task team to emphasize the consequences if identified implementation
problems remained unresolved. The ICR team found these ratings well supported by the
information provided in the ISRs, aide memoires and/or project files. Continuous
performance improvements during the last 18 months of implementation led to
satisfactory PDO and IP rating before project closing date, which is consistent with the
ICR ratings.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34. The project design included a sound project monitoring and results framework with


                                            8
five outcome indicators covering all aspects of the PDO and components. Most of the
indicators were well defined with the exception of the soil erosion indicator, which was
redefined at restructuring. A baseline survey provided reference values for net income
and land productivity. Following good practice, the project conducted a series of impact
evaluations at project completion with support from external institutions and independent
experts with expertise in different areas (social, environmental and institutional).

35. Monitoring physical progress in such type of project is challenging as it involves
recording, tracking and verification of activities scattered over large areas in thousands of
different site locations. The project used a system of ‘maps and tables’ that had been
introduced under the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Projects and proven to be
effective. The project further developed this system to adapt to its specific needs. The
system was combined with a computerized management information system (MIS)
developed with support from the EU-China RBMP. The MIS build on new technology,
such as map display and GPS tracking on smart phones and tablets. The MIS was
developed as a globally accessible web-based system and provided easy to use, uniform
and reliable implementation progress information with up-to-date reports at sub-
watershed, county, prefecture, province and project levels. It also includes a map-linked
smart phone and tablet interface that provides on-line and real-time access to the MIS
database at any location with a cell phone or internet connection. This tool was used in
the field with map-linked quantitative or graphical figures of progress plus a set of the
most important analytical tools. A detailed description of the MIS is provided in Annex 9.

36. The project MIS is a state-of-the-art system with potential for replicability in many
other projects. It provides the opportunity to verify, record, and directly feed-back field
observations into a project data base through text notes or geo-referenced photos and
allows the random checking with a high level of transparency. The MIS also allowed for
improving implementation efficiency. Several cases of inaccurate and false reporting of
project activities were found during supervision and could be corrected and resolved
through the operation of the MIS. In the hindsight, the MIS would have been even more
useful had it been developed during earlier stages of the project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37. The project was classified as a Category B project. An Environmental Assessment,
Pest Management Plan, Social Assessment, Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land
Acquisition, and an Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (in conformity with the Bank’s
Safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples, OD 4.20) were prepared. Most social and
environmental concerns were central to the PDO and fully integrated into the project
design. On the social side, attention was given to inclusiveness and outreach of project
activities to socially disadvantaged groups (poor households, ethnic minority households).
On the environment side, integrated pest management was promoted in fruit and crop
production in addition to the overall watershed related development objective. The
Bank’s safeguard policies on Forests (OP/BP 4.36) and on Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
were triggered but this was probably overly cautious and turned out to be of little
relevance to the project. Compliance with the safeguard policies was monitored during
implementation with no significant issues observed. Reporting on dam safety was


                                             9
irregular though, and implementation of the Pest Management Plan took a while to take
off since it required significant training efforts of farmers.

38. Procurement followed Bank policies and procedures with some minor issues reported
that could be resolved. Initially, project entities were unfamiliar with the community
participation in procurement procedures that were used in the project. This created some
confusion at project start-up when in some cases a mixture of community procurement
and competitive selection of contractors was used. Community participation in
procurement was however soon recognized as an efficient and suitable way to implement
watershed rehabilitation activities. It is one of the management models highly likely to
be replicated under future national programs.

39. Financial management was generally in compliance with World Bank procedures.
The project financial management arrangements were complex. Counterpart funds came
from at least three different sources, following different approval and accounting
procedures, and the timely availability caused problems and continued to be a challenge
in financial management. One case of fund mis-use was found and corrected and funds
were returned.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40. All livelihood activities have been transferred to the recipient farming households and
most of them are generating benefits (terraces, livestock, biogas digesters). Many of the
fruit orchards are still young and not yet fully productive. Some of the newly planted
orchards were also affected by frost or drought and require additional investments and
specific maintenance. The PMOs continue to work with the responsible technical
bureaus and agricultural extension offices to and provide technical training and services
to the orchard owners in such areas as tree pruning, pest management, and marketing to
ensure sustainability and long-term income generation from this important project
investment. Infrastructure investments (stone terraces, water collection canals and ponds,
field tracks and tractor roads) have also been turned over to beneficiaries and are operated
and maintained by them.

41. Several project provinces expressed a strong interest in a follow-on project. Should
such a project materialize it could build on the valuable experiences and lessons gained
under the current project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42. The PDO and project design remained highly relevant and consistent with national
policy priorities and the World Bank-China Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2006-
2011 that succeeded the Country Assistance Strategy of the preparation and design period.
The Government’s 11th and 12th Five Year Plans (2006-10 and 2011-15) placed high
priority on a ‘harmonious society’ that balances economic growth with income
distributional and ecological concerns. The project directly contributed to two outcomes


                                            10
of the CPS’s “Supporting Greener Growth? strategic theme: promoting sustainable
agricultural practices and demonstrating sustainable natural resources management
approaches.

43. From national as well as from international perspectives, the project concept and
design was forward looking. Giving farmers an active role in the design, decision
making and management of sustainable natural resource management and watershed
protection became a declared policy in China. The project anticipated policy trends and
priorities by giving high importance to farmer participation. It demonstrated feasible and
practical arrangements to policy implementation, which is valuable for scaling-up in
other programs. The project also recognized that watershed rehabilitation is a complex
undertaking requiring integrated activities and that benefits of such measures extend to
local, regional and global levels. The project contributed to raising understanding and
awareness that the burden of financing watershed rehabilitation activities cannot be
carried exclusively by local farmers but need to be shared.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44. The project achieved its development objective of improving farmers’ livelihoods and
protecting the environment. The project also achieved its objective of promoting
integrated and replicable models of sustainable development. The three project
components were well designed and justified as they individually and collectively
contributed towards meeting the PDO. The combination of public goods and public
infrastructure investments contributed to soil and water conservation and improved
livelihoods. Income generating activities created the necessary attractiveness of the
overall approach and sustainability was achieved. The project responded flexibly to
external programs and shifted support to other activities and avoided supporting
unnecessary and non-essential activities or duplication of investments.

45. Achievements of the project by component are discussed below. The findings are
based on the ICR team’s own field work, third party assessments and field studies
(collecting quantitative and qualitative information from a large number of project sites)
and extensive stakeholder consultations, including with representatives from the EU/EC.
Table F summarizes the findings with regard to the main PDO and intermediate
outcome/output indicators. Further details are provided below and in Annex 2, including
linkages between component activities and indicators.

46. Area treated and achieving 50% long-term reduction in on-site erosion (achieved).
This indicator measured project impact on soil erosion and stabilized watersheds with on-
site and downstream relevance: on-site benefits include maintaining long-term soil
fertility and productivity, which are important for farm production and for maintaining a
stable and diverse vegetative cover avoiding karst building with detrimental effects on
water management. Downstream benefits include avoiding the inflow of sediment into
river systems, impacting functioning and lifetime of reservoirs, hydraulic structures, and
reducing flood damage.

47. The Soil and Water Conservation Monitoring Center in the Pearl River Basin of the


                                           11
Pearl River Hydro-conservancy Committee estimated the total project area where a 50%
long-term erosion reduction was achieved at 1,769 square kilometers, exceeding the
project target of 1,750 square kilometers. The most immediate impact in form of erosion
reduction was observed on terraces, grassland and in economic tree plantations while
conservation forests and closure areas will take time for the vegetative cover to develop
its protection function. Soil conservation tillage contributed to a reduction in soil erosion
on an additional 510 square kilometers. This area is not included in the actual achieved
area as it is uncertain if the reduction in erosion can reach the 50% target.

48. Total amount of carbon sequestered through increases in the amount of biomass
(achieved). This indicator provides an indirect measure of watershed health. By
observing changes over time, this indicator gives a good indication if watershed
properties are improving. It also reflects the global benefits of good watershed
management beyond on-site impacts.

49. A team from the Huazhong Agricultural University with support from an
international expert (EU-financed) undertook a survey of project sites and estimated the
total amount on incremental carbon sequestered at project end at 391,000 tons, exceeding
the original target of 300,000 tons. Due to the short time of the project life, carbon
sequestration potential has not yet been exhausted. Projections have therefore been made
using similar vegetation and agro-climatic conditions in China to estimate carbon
sequestration over time. Total carbon sequestered through by project plantation and
protection activities would reach between 5.8 - 8.3 million tons after 10 years and
between 11.4-16.2 million tons after 20 years. If the lower band projections and a
conservative price assumption of US$10/ton of CO2 – equivalent are used, the value of
carbon sequestration benefits could be in the range of US$114 million.

50. Farmers’ income increased measured as per capita income increase (achieved). This
indicator addressed the livelihood dimension of the PDO. Poverty combined with a lack
of sustainable livelihood opportunities is by far the most important cause for destructive
practices and responsible for the stage of degradation of the project watersheds. Long-
term and sustainable watershed stabilization has to go hand in hand with alternative and
improved income opportunities. A relatively narrow definition and calculation method is
used in this ICR to ensure that income changes can be clearly attributed to the project.
The field surveys and detailed analysis were conducted by the EU–China RBMP.

51. Net income increases are shown for a range of typical farms. Income increases take
into account only incremental income generated through project activities. Such
incremental increases range between RMB557 to RMB4,368 per capita per year 1. The


1
  The analysis uses constant 2012 prices. It excludes family income from non-project related sources, such
as off-farm income and farming activities with no direct project connection. Income changes of project
households in comparison to non-project households were also estimated by a social assessment study
based on information of 2010. The survey estimated an income difference of RMB 3,665. The ICR team
considered this as less useful due to the different timing when the information was collected and due to the
difficulty to attribute changes in general household income to project activities.



                                                    12
lower value refers to farmers in particular difficult karst environments that benefited from
stone terraces, livestock and biogas. Farms that also engaged in fruit trees could increase
income by RMB2,198 per capita/year. Notably this measured income changes are still
not reflecting the full benefits from fruit trees, which are still young and not fully
productive. Overall, the project achieved an average net income increase higher than the
appraisal estimate (of RMB535 based on total farm income increase) with most farms
exceeding expectations significantly.

52. Increase of farm land productivity (partially achieved).        This indicator measures
changes in productivity independent of the specific farming system. The above-
referenced analysis found that the annual net farm land productivity increased from
RMB11,165 to RMB16,679 per hectare, a net increase of RMB5,504, which falls
somewhat short of the expected increase of RMB 8,174. Falling below PAD
expectations on land productivity can be explained by the delays in implementation with
the bulk of activities implemented during the last three years. Terraces normally need 2-
3 years to reach full productivity and fruit trees reach full production after 5-8 years. It is
therefore reasonable to expect that the land productivity will soon further increase and the
PAD target will be achieved or over-achieved in a short time.

53. Outreach and equity measure as percentage of beneficiary households with
disaggregation by gender, income, and ethnicity (achieved above targets). This indicator
covers a further social and livelihood dimension. The percentage of directly benefiting
households under the project reached 71% of all households per sub-watershed. The
percentage of benefitting ethnic minority households among all ethnic minority
households in the project areas reached 72%. Both values exceeded the appraisal targets
of 60% and 66%, respectively. About 76% of all poor households were reached by the
project in project areas (no target was set at appraisal); and 21% of all beneficiary
households were headed by women. The participatory design of the project combined
with special financial support through the ‘grant option for the poor’ resulted in a
remarkable coverage and outreach and benefitted over 70% of all households in the
project areas, including an over-proportional participation of socially vulnerable groups.

54. Replicability and Sustainability (achieved). This indicator was assessed by a joint
national and international expert team. It covered aspects of replicability and
sustainability of the project as a whole as well of key design features.

55. Replicability: The expert team concluded: “Overall, the project is rated replicable
with minor changes in procedures or changes in national project planning and financing
mechanisms. The project concepts, activities and principles are backed by strong policies
and are fully integrated in the social, legal and administrative system of the country.
Therefore the changes requested in procedures and implementation mechanisms are very
likely to happen.? Several design features are already replicated in national programs.
Beneficiary participation is well established in national watershed rehabilitation programs
and the project has developed and tested the necessary design tools and procedures.
Similarly community procurement and reimbursement methods are considered efficient
methods which will likely enter into national programs.              Integrated watershed



                                              13
rehabilitation is also widely recognized as an effective approach to sustainable watershed
rehabilitation and is likely to be replicated despite difficulties resulting from barriers to
inter-departmental coordination and cooperation. The project’s financing mechanism has
proven complex and would deserve simplification.

56. Sustainability: The expert team concluded: “Overall, the project is considered likely
to be sustainable. Generally, the integrated watershed planning and management has
built up solid foundations to ensure a long-term impact of the measures taken. The socio-
economic context is favorable to soil and water conservation in the project areas with the
sustained migration to cities, which results in a decreased pressure on land for cropping
purposes.?

3.3 Efficiency

57. An economic analysis was carried out at the end-of the project using actual field
survey data and applying the same methodology used during appraisal as referenced in
the PAD 2. The ERR of the project is estimated at 18%, which is very close to the PAD
estimate of 19%. Most activities show ERRs ranging from 16% (conservation forests) to
33% (renewable energy).

58. However, stone faced terraces, considered as one of the most attractive activities from
beneficiaries’ perspective, show an ERR of only 1%. Low economic returns of this
individual investment were already foreseen at appraisal due to high cost (ERR 5%) but
the investments were considered essential as part of a package of integrated watershed
rehabilitation measures and to achieve the necessary buy-in from the beneficiaries. In
retrospect this rationale remained valid and the project would not have been possible
without the inclusion of stone faced terraces. Given the rationale of the project as an
integrated package of activities, the overall ERR is likely a more meaningful measure to
express the economic efficiency of the project.

59. The ICR also undertook an analysis of farmland and farm labor productivity. Both
values increased significantly under the project: farmland productivity increased from
RMB11,165 to RMB16,679 per hectare, and labor productivity increased from RMB31 to
RMB55 per labor day (for details see Annex 3, Table 4). Despite being situated in
agriculturally marginal areas, the project achieved remarkable land and labor productivity
gains which are competitive with many better-off areas in China.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Satisfactory

60. Five of the six key PDO indicators have been achieved or over-achieved.
Achievement of one indicator (land productivity) is already high and will likely be
achieved soon. In light of the relevance of the PDO and the project design, a satisfactory


2
  The financial and economic analysis was also carried out under the EU– China RBMP. A summary of
the report is shown in Annex 3.



                                                14
efficacy, and a satisfactory efficiency, the overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

61. One dimension of the PDO focused on livelihood improvement and income
generation. The project achieved this in two ways: First, it generated a range of
sustainable livelihood opportunities with short-, medium-, and long-term income
generating effects. This allowed for a smooth transition from unsuitable cropping to
sustainable production methods without temporary drops in farming income during the
transition phase; and (b) it increased agricultural labor productivity.

62. The project reached out to a large proportion of the population in the sub-watersheds
with about 345,000 directly benefitting households, which represent 71% of all
households in the project areas. The project achieved proportionally higher outreach to
ethnic minority and poorer households where the shares of benefitting households were
72% and 76%, respectively. The designers anticipated the risk in a project that is funded
by repayable loans, poor households might hesitate to participate. This risk was
mitigated through the supplemental grant support from the EU that specifically targeted
poor households.

63. Nearly 79,000 project households were female headed. Equally important from a
gender perspective is that labor migration in many project areas resulted in a situation
where many farms are operated and managed by women whose husbands work as
migrant laborers most of the year in other areas. In some villages more than 80% of
households are reported to be ‘de facto female-headed’. These women not only carry a
significant labor burden, but are also effectively managing and running the farms and are
required to make most managerial as well as technical decisions. According to project
reports, the project helped reduce and ease the labor burden of women through project
activities and addressed their specific technical and managerial training needs. Most of
the ‘de facto female-headed’ households also participated in the participatory watershed
management process. A more systematic assessment of gender development would have
been of interest for the project and moreover of significance in context of the
restructuring of agriculture in China.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

64. The project did not create new institutions nor did it change the structure of existing
institutions. Instead, it strengthened existing institutions both in the water resource
management sector and in related line departments. A total of 88,500 person training
days for officers and technicians from various government institutions and departments
from the provincial down to the village level were implemented covering managerial and
technical aspects of watershed development. This enhanced institutional capacity in a
wide range of areas, most importantly in inter-departmental coordination and cooperation,
participation of beneficiaries, support of village level organizations, procurement,
financial management, monitoring and quality control, and documentation.


                                             15
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

65. Rural transformation. Various aide memoires recognized the importance of the
project in the context of China’s rural transformation and advised how the project should
respond to the developments of land consolidation, out-migration of labor and the fact
that small farms are becoming too small to provide sufficient income for a farm family.
Overall, the project made a positive contribution to the transformation and agricultural
sector restructuring agenda and increased options for farmers. In many locations
producer cooperatives were created with project support. In other cases, the project
helped aging farmers to attract investors leasing land and providing them with income
from land leasing and/or employment opportunities. In hindsight the project could have
addressed the issues of agricultural restructuring and out-migration during
implementation more proactively by looking at a longer time-frame, anticipating and
working towards a desirable agricultural structure.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

66. The key messages from the impact studies are summarized in section 3.2 above. In
addition, a social assessment was conducted at mid-term and at project completion.
However, field survey work for the end-project assessment was already done in 2010,
when only about half of the project investments were finished with even less than half of
the productive investments (terraces, livestock, fruit trees) having shown any yields. The
survey shows a high satisfaction rate among beneficiaries for all project investments.
Satisfaction was particularly high for infrastructure and energy saving activities. This is
not surprising as these investments provided immediate benefits. Income and land
productivity increases were high as well. However, the ICR team considers this
information of limited value since the methodology is not well explained in the
assessment and the time span between the first and second evaluation of only one year is
too short to observe profound changes.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

67. The project successfully implemented a comprehensive set of integrated watershed
rehabilitation activities, which have proven to be effective in simultaneously addressing
social/income and environmental challenges in the project area. This suggests low to
negligible internal and technical risks to the development outcome. However, China’s
agricultural/ rural transformation and the continuous migration from marginal rural to
urban areas could result in a situation where some of the productive investments may not
be fully utilized in the medium to longer term future. This would not affect the
environmental stabilization outcome of the project but could affect the economic
efficiency of some of the project investments. This risk may be limited to some of the
most marginal areas and may not change the overall development outcome significantly.
The risk is therefore rated likely in terms of probability but low in terms of impact on the
development outcome. The overall risk to development outcome is rated moderate.




                                            16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

68. Project preparation and design was thorough and based on existing experiences that
were adjusted to the specific conditions in the two project river basins and the country
policy context. On the Bank side, preparation was undertaken by an experienced team
with an appropriate skill mix and significant country experience. It involved detailed
field investigation, farmer interviews, workshops and stakeholder involvement. During
the preparation and design phase intensive client interaction and cooperation took place
leading to a joint project design. The PDO was clear and realistic with project
components and activities well linked and supporting the PDO outcomes. The PDO
indicators and targets provided a comprehensive reflection of the expected project
achievements. The Bank team paid high attention to designing a sound M&E system and
defined an effective management mechanism to track physical progress and to assure that
the project funds were used efficiently.

69. Innovative design features included: (a) a clear definition of public and private goods
elements in watershed rehabilitation; (b) the definition of financing and repayment
responsibilities according the principle ‘who benefits pays’; (c) transparency in the fund
allocation down to the individual beneficiary level; and (d) the facilitation of beneficiary
participation while at the same time maintaining a good balance of efficient top-down
and participatory bottom-up watershed planning and implementation.

70. Some of these design features, while well rationalized, turned out to have been too
ambitious in the later stages of the project and for the overall country context. The
complexity of the financing arrangements was underestimated and the implications of the
discrepancy between domestic approval requirements and the participatory project design
could not be foreseen. Combined with underestimated price increases and currency re-
valuation, these issues caused implementation difficulties and delays. Project design
decided in favor of innovative features and implicitly accepted the inherent risks and
subsequent implementation challenges. On the other hand, this approach also created the
space for better learning and expanded experience. The project’s innovations did not
jeopardize the project outcome, and based on this, quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

71. The Bank conducted supervision missions and provided project implementation
support generally twice per year. In addition and on a continuing basis, the Bank carried
out fiduciary supervision through country office based staff. Regular supervision
identified and addressed implementation issues and problems in a timely matter. The
impact of price increases and exchange rate risk was recognized on time and addressed
through an action plan and subsequent project restructuring. The quality of aide


                                            17
memoires was consistently high and agreed actions were described in concise and
comprehensive ways. PDO and IP ratings at various stages of implementation were frank
and well supported by the aide memoirs and project reports. The team was effective in
informing and alerting Bank management, the Borrower and the implementing agencies
about the project situation and triggered the necessary actions to bring the project back on
track.

72. The Bank team, included expertise in technical, economic and institutional aspects,
including fiduciary and social and environmental safeguards, and was regularly supported
by technical experts from the EU-China RBMP. More continuity in the team
composition could have helped to resolve some of the implementation issues in a more
timely manner. A number of experts joined the supervision process only for a short
period but had to cope with a complex project and learn about preceding discussions and
agreements.

73. From lending to project completion, four different TTLs were in charge of the project,
which put significant demand on the borrower to explain the context of issues and
rationale of previously agreed approaches and to maintain a consistent path of project
implementation. Examples where discontinuity might have an impact were the delayed
implementation of the ‘grant option for the poor’, or a more pro-active adjustment to the
agricultural restructuring agenda with the unresolved issue of supporting emerging larger
households and cooperatives. .

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

74. While some design shortcomings, such as the complexity of the financing
arrangements and underestimated macro-economic risks, and supervision weaknesses,
such as frequent task team leader changes, affected the project implementation, thorough
project design and a responsive and pro-active supervision outweighed these
shortcomings and the achievement of the project objective was not affected. The overall
Bank performance is thus rated Satisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

75. The Ministry of Water Resources was highly committed and supportive to the project
objective and design and contributed to the success of the project with strong leadership
and significant financial resources. Provincial and lower-level government departments
were equally committed and contributed to the project success. The central, provincial,
municipal and county governments provided the required counterpart funds, adequate
oversight, and implementation support. They also showed a strong interest and openness
to test and integrate design elements of the project into the national policies and programs,
such as integrated watershed rehabilitation, farmer participation, reimbursement methods
in funding. Related line departments such as finance, forestry, agriculture and livestock


                                            18
supported and complemented the project with their own on-going programs and services.
Government policies and policy priorities remained highly consistent with the project.
Overall government performance is rated satisfactory despite some delays caused by
internal approval procedures and some impacts on the project’s participatory design
approach that were caused by the requirement of NDRC to have all sub-watershed
designs fully approved at project inception, as is discussed above.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

76. The Changjiang River Commission, the provinces, municipalities and counties set up
project management offices with skilled and dedicated staff, which worked with the Bank
team constructively and in partnership. The PMOs provided continuity in management
and core staffing and assigned excellent staff at field level. A large number of township
officers dedicated an unaccounted amount of work to the project and its demands in terms
of farmer mobilization, participatory meetings, design and implementation of a variety of
works. The CPIO and the provincial PMOs maintained a good control of all project
activities and conducted regular field supervision missions throughout the
implementation period. Management and implementation issues were addressed in a
timely manner through training workshops and study tours, which provided a good
learning opportunity for the PMO staff and improved understanding and work
performance.

77. When alerted by the Bank team about mis-reporting, the responsible PMOs responded
quickly and appropriately to those specific instances, corrected mistakes, and took actions
to improve control and implementation oversight. In addition, the CPIO pursued
innovations of technologies and took the initiative to develop - together with the EU-
China RBMP experts – the project’s computerized advanced MIS system. Through these
continuous efforts, the PMOs at all levels ensured the high quality implementation and
achievement of the PDO.

78. The tasks of the CPIO, which included a core team of highly dedicated and hard
working staff, were enormous in terms of: (a) managing and coordinating a large number
of complex and wide spread implementation activities in four project provinces; (b)
interacting with the MWR and the Bank; (c) providing project reports; and (d) responding
to implementation issues and taking actions. The limited number of staff and staff
authority in the CPIO was sometimes a bottleneck. Project implementation might have
benefitted from a larger number of staff and more decisiveness at the CPIO. The
challenge to complete this project in full, in time and successfully after significant delays
was enormous. The implementing units at all levels under the leadership of the
respective government departments have succeeded to do this with commendable
determination and commitment.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

79. Strong political commitment and the dedication of the implementing agencies were


                                             19
the main factors in overcoming most of the procedural difficulties resulting from national
level approval procedures and delays and brought the project to a successful outcome.
The overall borrower performance is therefore rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

80. A design focus on the PDO facilitates outcome oriented implementation. The
project was complex as it involved two closely interlinked objectives. Project design
developed a framework of mutually supportive and integrated activities, which were
closely linked to the project outcomes. During implementation this design framework
proved important to guide decision making, so for example when deciding on livestock,
bio-gas or fruit tree planting activities the linkages to soil and water conservation became
selection criteria.

81. Participation of beneficiaries is important and needs to be combined with higher
level planning and foresight. The participation of beneficiaries in the design and
implementation of watershed development activities was important to generate ownership
and sustainability. Participatory decision making cannot be limited to local beneficiaries
but needs to be combined with higher level planning that takes the following into
account: (a) a technical dimension to balance interests of beneficiaries with necessary
technical measures; and (b) a development planning dimension that considers long-term
development perspectives and options in a changing macro-economic environment.

82. Advanced information technologies improve project management and control.
The project improved its monitoring system continuously through implementation by
adopting monitoring and field tracking technologies, many of which did not even exist at
the design stage. The smart phone and tablet based field tracking system combined with
the MIS opened an entirely new dimension for a transparent and interactive M&E.

83. Changes in the rural environment require forward planning and flexibility.
During the lifetime of the project the rural environment change markedly. The
agricultural restructuring in project areas involved significant out-migration combined
with shortage of young and middle-age labor, new responsibilities of women,
development of cooperatives, emerging larger farms, land consolidation, and in some
cases even the complete abandonment of marginal settlements. The implementing
agencies responded to these developments but generally more flexibility to such changes
needs to be built into the project design.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
84. Borrower had no specific comments: “We found the daft ICR sent on OCT 26, 2012
explicitly presents the outcomes of the project. The overall assessment and rating on the
performance of the project was acceptable?. Summary of Borrower’s ICR is presented in
Annex 5.




                                            20
(b) Cofinanciers
85. EC’s comments are presented in the Annex 6. No particular issues raised. EC’s
comments are broadly in line with the ICR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)a)

                                             PAD    Revised   Latest            Percent of     Percent of
Component/Activities
                                           estimate estimate estimate             PAD           revised

I Soil and Water Conservation
1 Stone terraces                               12.2        36.4          41.5        339%           114%
2 Sediment retention structures                 6.8        10.6           7.9        117%            75%
3 Afforestation & vegetation cover             11.0        20.1          14.2        129%            70%
4 Protection/Closing Areas                      3.6         7.1           7.1        201%           101%
5 Village Infrastructure                        6.9        15.4          24.5        356%           159%
5 Irrigation and Drainage b)                   40.8        24.4          21.1         52%            87%
6 Soil Conservation Tillage                       -         2.0           2.9                       147%
Sub-total Component I                          81.3       116.0         119.2        147%           103%
II Livelihood Improvement
1 Earth terraces                                8.8        16.2          18.5       211%            114%
2 Economic/Fruit Trees                         36.1        48.9          61.8       171%            126%
3 Grass land                                    8.1         3.4           2.8        35%             84%
4 Livestock                                    29.0        29.1          31.3       108%            108%
6 Renewable Energy                             17.7        15.0           8.2        46%             55%
Sub-total Component II                         99.7       112.6         122.7       123%            109%
III Managm. & Support Services                 16.3        30.4          18.0       111%             59%
EU grant for the poor                           2.5         3.3           1.4        57%             44%
Total project costs c)                        199.8       262.3         261.4       131%            100%
Front-end Fee                                   0.3         0.3           0.3       100%            100%
Total Financing                               200.0       262.5         261.6       131%            100%
    a) To convert local currency in US$ at appraisal an exchange rate of RMB 8.1, at restructuring RMB
       6.0, and for the actual expenditure an average of RMB 6.3 per US$ is used.
    b) Irrigation and drainage was moved from component II to component I during restructuring.
    c) The increase in project costs in US$ was largely the effect of the appreciation of the local currency.
       Project cost in RMB remained close to the appraisal estimate of RMB 1.6 billion.

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                      88.0       148.7       169.0%
 EC: European Commission                       Grant           12.0        13.4       111.7%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                               Loan             100.0            99.5           99.5%
and Development




                                                    22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                Summary Project Components/Activities
                                                                                   Achievement in % of
Component/Activities               Unit                         Actual
                                            PAD Restructure                     PAD       restructure weighted
                                                              implemente
                                          estimate d estimate                   estim.     d estim.      a/
                                                                   d
I. Soil and Water
Conservation (Public
Interest)
1 Stone terraces                    ha       2,378        2,506        2,947    124%        118%      118%
2 Sediment retention structures
       Sediment deposition pool     m³     54,530        28,587       19,013     35%         67%       63%
       Drainage works               m³    481,195       541,216      434,990     90%         80%       81%
       Check dam                    m³     54,867        10,588        5,172      9%         49%       45%
3 Afforestation & vegetation
                                    ha      38,668       25,219       20,688     54%         82%       79%
cover
4 Protection/Closing Areas          ha      78,440       87,979      112,052    143%        127%      129%
5 Village Infrastructure
       Drink water supply          HH       17,903       23,580       12,265     69%         52%      54%
       Field tracks                km        1,455        1,234        1,266     87%        103%      101%
       Tractor roads               km          808          616          985    122%        160%      156%
6 Irrigation
       Water cisterns               m³    514,355       487,807      438,707     85%         90%       89%
       Water tanks                  m³    233,460        67,375       59,690     26%         89%       82%
       Irrigation channel           m     735,300       652,183      551,175     75%         85%       83%
       PVC pipeline for
                                    km      62,790       12,578          819      1%          7%       6%
    irrigation
7 Soil Conservation Tillage         ha                   33,346       51,090                153%       153%
II Livelihood Improvement
(Private Interest)
1 Earth terraces                   ha        7,110        4,069        4,813     68%        118%      113%
2 Economic/Fruit Trees             ha       40,516       19,584       33,859     84%        173%      163%
3 Grass land                       ha       20,230        2,646        2,525     12%         95%      86%
4 Livestock                        HH       63,417       27,231       30,813     49%        113%      106%
5 Renewable Energy
       Biogas pits                  Set     89,982       34,515       22,478     25%         65%       61%
       Energy saving oven           Set     70,800       32,478       10,105     14%         31%       29%

a/ Using the actual World Bank loan disbursement rate at restructuring of 11.4% the PAD targets are
weighted with a factor of 0.114 and the revised targets are weighted with a factor of 0.886.




                                                   23
                                   Summary of Linkages of Components and Activities to Development Outcome
                                                                                  PDO Dimension
                   Cross-linkages with
Component /                                     Protecting ecological environment                    Improving farmers' livelihood
                   other components /
Activity                                   Short-term and direct                            Short-term and direct
                        activities                                     Long-term impact                                 Long-term impact
                                                  impact                                           impact
Component 1: Soil and Water Conservation (Public Interest)
                   Assured farmer                                                                        Retain water, soil and
                                                                                                                                      Create conditions for the
1. Stone           acceptance and             Significantly reduce the soil                              nutrients; increase land
                                                                                                                                      planting of high value-
terraces           sustainability of most     and water loss on slope land                               productivity and farmer
                                                                                                                                      economic crops.
                   other project activities                                                              income.
                                                                                                         Returned sediment to
                   Protect water cisterns,
2a. Sediment                                                                                             farmland improves soil
                   water tanks, irrigation    Intercepts surface runoff and     Increase operational
deposition pool                                                                                          fertility, yields, and
                   channels                   sediment, reduced downstream      lifetime of reservoirs
                                                                                                         incomes.
                                              damages of hydraulic              and other downstream
                   Provide water for                                                                                                  Reduce soil fertility loss,
2b.Drainage                                   structures.                       hydraulic structures
                   cisterns, water tanks                                                                                              increase ability to resist
works              and irrigation systems                                                                                             losses caused by flood.
                                              Effectively intercept surface
                   Protect terraces, water
                                              runoff and sediment flow,                                                               Generate fertile farmland
2c. Check dam      storage tanks and
                                              reduced downstream damages                                                              on warping dams.
                   irrigation facilities
                                              of hydraulic structures.
                   Returning slope-land
                   to forests is dependent
3. Afforestation
                   on alternative
& vegetation       livelihood                 Increase vegetative cover,
cover              opportunities, terraces,   protect soil, reduce water run-   Increase biodiversity,                                Income from use of non-
                   econ. trees, livestock     off, and increase ground water    sequestrate carbon.                                   timber forest products
                   Interlinked with           recharge.
4. Protection/     alternative energy
Closing Areas      supply to reduce fuel
                   wood collection
                                                                                                         Reduce water related
5a. Drinking       Supports livestock                                                                    diseases, improve health,
water supply       production                                                                            reduces labor for fetching
                                                                                                         water, support raising




                                                                                24
                                                                                        PDO Dimension
                   Cross-linkages with
Component /                                           Protecting ecological environment                  Improving farmers' livelihood
                   other components /
Activity                                         Short-term and direct                          Short-term and direct
                        activities                                           Long-term impact                               Long-term impact
                                                        impact                                         impact
                                                                                                        livestock.
                   Provide access to
                                                                                                        Reduce labor, improve
5b. Field tracks   terraces and economic
                                                                                                        convenience for farmers
                   trees
                                                                                                        Improve the traffic, be
                   Provide access to                                                                    convenient for the foreign
                   terraces and economic                                                                sales and transportation of the
5c. Tractor
                   trees, facilitate                                                                    agricultural products, and
roads              transport of increased                                                               combine the transportation to
                   volumes of produce                                                                   reduce the labor intensity of
                                                                                                        farmers.
                Provide supplementary
                                             Intercept surface runoff, reduce                           Increase crop yields, reduce
6a. Water       irrigation water for
                                             flood intensity and flood                                  risk and damage of drought,
cisterns        terraces and economic
                                             volumes.                         Facilitate change from    and increase income.
                trees
                                                                              damaging slope-land
                Provide supplementary                                                                                                     Create conditions for the
                                             Intercept surface runoff, reduce cropping to sustainable   Increase crop yields, reduce
                irrigation water for                                          un-damaging crop/tree                                       planting of high value-
6b. Water tanks terraces and economic        flood intensity and flood                                  risk and damage of drought,
                                             volumes.                         cultivation               and increase income.              economic crops.
                trees
                Provide supplementary
                                                                                                        Increase crop yields, reduce
6c. Irrigation  irrigation water for         Intercept surface runoff, reduce
                                                                                                        risk and damage of drought,
channels        terraces and economic        flood intensity.
                                                                                                        and increase income.
                tree
                                                                                                        Increase quality and yields       Create conditions for the
6d. PVC            Provide water saving                                                                 from economic trees,              planting of high value-
pipeline for       irrigation for economic                                                              reduce risk and damage of         economic crops; improve
irrigation         trees                                                                                drought, and increase             market access and market
                                                                                                        income.                           stability
7. Soil
                                                                                                                                          Secure long-term
Conservation                                 Reduce water and soil erosion
                                                                                                                                          productivity of farm land
Tillage




                                                                                25
                                                                                      PDO Dimension
                   Cross-linkages with
Component /                                         Protecting ecological environment                  Improving farmers' livelihood
                   other components /
Activity                                       Short-term and direct                          Short-term and direct
                        activities                                         Long-term impact                               Long-term impact
                                                      impact                                         impact
II Livelihood Improvement (Private Interest)
                                                                             Facilitate change from
                                                                                                        Retain water, soil and
                                                                             damaging slope-land                                       Create conditions for the
1. Earth                                   Significantly reduce the soil                                nutrients; increase land
                                                                             cropping to sustainable                                   planting of high value-
terraces           Linked with the field   and water loss in the slope                                  productivity and farmer
                                                                             un-damaging crop/tree                                     economic crops.
                   tracks, tractor roads                                                                income.
                                                                             cultivation
                   and water storage
                                           Increase vegetative cover,
                   irrigation facilities                                                                                               Significantly increase
2. Economic                                protect soil, reduce water run-
                                                                             Sequestrate carbon                                        returns from land and
fruit trees                                off, and increase ground water
                                                                                                                                       income
                                           recharge.
                                           Increase vegetative cover,
                                                                                                        Income is generated
                                           protect soil, reduce water run-
3. Grass land      Livestock production
                                           off, and increase ground water
                                                                             Sequestrate carbon         through livestock
                                                                                                        production
                                           recharge.
                   Directly linked to                                                                   Provide short- and medium-
                   grass production,                                         Facilitate change from     term alternative income
                   indirectly linked to                                      damaging slope-land        sources and compensate for
4. Livestock       reduction of damaging                                     cropping to sustainable    short-term losses of farmers
                   slope-land cropping,                                      un-damaging crop/tree      caused by replanting the
                   closure and                                               cultivation                economic and fruit trees or
                   afforestation                                                                        implementation of terrace.
5a. Biogas pit                                                               Reduce pressure on
                   Afforestation and                                                                    Reduce costs of fuel and
                                           Improve carbon emission           forests and closed areas
5b. Energy         closing, manure from                                                                 labor for collecting fuel
                                           balance                           from fuel wood
saving oven        livestock                                                                            wood, increase convenience
                                                                             collection




                                                                             26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis for the project was conducted with a two-fold
objective, namely to: (a) recalculate the economic impact from project point of view,
following the method used in the PAD and at restructuring; and (b) analyze the project
impact on the household economy (financial analysis). The analysis built on data
collected during household interviews that were conducted in five counties/districts
covering all four project provinces between February and April 2012. Key project
benefits and major determinants of the project impact on the households’ economy are
described below.

                  •   Economic analysis

Major benefits expected from the project
The project improved about 165,000 ha of slope land, which were previously cropped or extensively grazed
slopes. About 7,937 ha of the previously cropped land were turned into terraces. The remaining land was
brought under permanent vegetative cover, such as fruit and nut trees (34,115 ha), conservation forest
(20,688 ha), and forage grassland (2,525 ha). 99,404 ha have been closed for natural regeneration.
    (A) On-site benefits
    ̵ Direct Farm Income Increase
    ̵ Food Security and Risk Reduction
    ̵ Natural Resource Protection and Securing of Long-Term Income Opportunities
    (B) Improvements in the river regime downstream in the Changjiang and Pearl Rivers
    ̵ Reduced Sediment Loads in Rivers
    ̵ Lower Variability in Water Flows and Reduced Flood Risk
    (C) Global or regional ecological improvements beyond the project areas and the two river basins
    ̵ Reduction of Greenhouse Gases and Carbon Sequestration
    ̵ Restoration of Biodiversity
    ̵ Long-Term Impact on Climate and Rainfall
    (D) Efficiency gains in public administration and public spending under similar international and
    national projects and programs.

The economic analysis follows the same method as in the PAD and at restructuring.
Prices have been up-dated and physical input output parameters have been adjusted using
the project reporting and monitoring data. Table 1 below presents the quantification
method used for each aspect.

Table 1: Quantification method used for each component in the PAD and in the ICR report
        Component                   Expected Benefits              Quantification Method
        Sub-Component
        Stone-walled terraces       Yields increase up to double   Crop models
        and earth terraces          after 2/3 years                Sediment retention
 Direct benefit




        Irrigation                  Similar to those expected from Crop models
        (on terraced land)          terraces but with immediate
                                    effect
        Afforestation               Income at medium and long      Crop models
                                    term                           Carbon sink of up to 3 tons per
                                    Carbon sequestration           ha is built up over 25 years
                                                                   Value of standing timber




                                                  27
                         Component                   Expected Benefits                Quantification Method
                         Sub-Component
                         Natural re-vegetation       Erosion reduction                CO2 sequestration has not been
                         (closing of areas)                                           valued. The monitoring survey
                                                                                      did not yet demonstrate any
                                                                                      increment in biomass of the
                                                                                      closed forests
                         Economic trees, fruit and   Increased income                 Crop models
                         nut trees
                         Grassland development       Increased income                 Crop models for grass
                                                     Carbon sequestration             production are integrated in the
                                                                                      cattle production models.
                         Livestock Development       Increased income                 Livestock cash flow models
                         (Improved livestock         Reduced cash expenditure for
                         based production            chemical fertilizers and fuel.
                         systems: cattle +shed
                         +permanent pastures &
                         forage)
                         Bio-gas, energy saving      Reduced expenditures             Saved costs for fossil energy
                         oven                        Reduction in fossil-based CO2    (coal) and firewood at the
                                                                                      household level (figures from
                                                                                      the socio-economic monitoring
                                                                                      report)
                                                                                      Reduction in fossil-based CO2
                                                                                      emission
                         Sedimentation retention                                      Construction costs estimated
  Indirect Benefit




                         structures                                                   with the actual results reported
                                                                                      in the ICR
                         Village infrastructure      Facilitate the improvement of    Transport cost saving and
                                                     agricultural production          growth stimulation not valued.
                                                                                      Part of the economic benefit is
                                                                                      captured in the crop models.
Notes: in italic, adjustments made for the end-of-project analysis.

                     •   Assumptions

Actual farm-gate prices are used for most traded inputs and outputs and price
distortions are considered as insignificant. Given China’s market liberalization, no major
bias was observed for the key inputs and outputs of the project that would require the
calculation of world market reference prices. The price of each commodity is estimated
by an average for the whole project area. The counties have reported up-dated unit prices,
which have been discussed, agreed-upon and verified through field interviews in the four
provinces. Prices are kept unchanged throughout the analysis.

The daily rate for unskilled labor was RMB15 at appraisal and increased up to RMB50
in 2012. A conversion factor of 0.7 is used to reflect the opportunity cost for farm labor.
Physical quantities for each input and output were kept the same as in the PAD and
restructuring analyses except when otherwise observed in the field.

Phasing. The economic analysis was done for a period of 20 years at restructuring and in
the PAD. The yield increases on terraces are expected to build up over a period of four
years after terracing. The sediment retention impact from dams and terraces will occur


                                                                    28
immediately after construction. The sediment retention from vegetative measures, such as
trees, shrubs or natural regeneration is expected to build up over a period of 6 to 10 years.
The carbon storage benefit is expected to accrue over a period of 40 years.

Environmental benefits are considered in the economic analysis: (a) sediment retention
30 tons per hectare for terraces, at RMB15/ton; (a) carbon sequestration with an
estimated increment of 3 tons per hectare for afforestation, valued at about RMB83/ton 3;
and (c) renewable energies through a decrease in expenditures for other sources of energy
(coal, electricity).

Benefits resulting from the construction of public infrastructure such as rural roads
or water supply are difficult to quantify and are not taken into account in the analysis.
Therefore, the Economic Rate of Return is rather under-estimated.

    •    Results

The overall ERR of the project is 18% when carbon sequestration is accounted for
as a benefit, and 17% when it is not. It is similar to the ERR estimated during appraisal
(17%) and higher than at re-structuring (13%). Labor costs and prices of construction
material increased rapidly during appraisal and restructuring but there has also been a
trend for an increase in all commodity prices since restructuring. The increase in the cost
of unskilled local labor from RMB/day 15 in 2005 to 45 in 2008 slowed down from re-
structuring to date where it increased from RMB/day 45 to 50 from 2008 to 2012.

The comparatively low ERR for Chongqing reflects the high percentage of infrastructure
works in this province where the benefits accruing from public infrastructure are not
taken into account in the calculation of the ERR. In Yunnan, the ERR is higher than at
re-structuring. The proportion of activities with a relatively higher ERR is higher in this
provinces, including earth terraces, fruit trees and livestock.

         Table 2: Economic internal rate of return by province
                                        ICR             Re-structuring                   PAD
                  Total             17% (18%)                13%                         19%
                 Yunnan             18% (18%)                15%                         18%
                Guizhou             15% (16%)                14%                         17%
                 Hubei              15% (15%)                15%                         18%
               Chongqing            14% (14%)                11%                         18%
          Note: in italic, ERR with carbon sequestration.

The ERR per component ranges between 14% and 22%, except for stone terraces
which ERR remains as low as 1% due to the continued high increase of the costs of
construction material and technical services. The social benefits of stone faced terraces
construction should be considered. In remote areas with extremely poor soil conditions


3
 CO2 sequestration is valued at EUR 10 per ton of CO2 fixed (reference: early 2012 in the European Union system).
The exchange rate of 8.3 RMB per EUR on April 20th, 2012 was used to obtain the value of RMB 83 per ton.




                                                       29
and uneven rainfall, farmers have no economic alternative to agriculture yet. With
terraces, the productivity increases along with farmer’s income (see chapter 2). The ERR
for earth terraces is higher than at restructuring. The calculation is based on a different
cropping system, the seasonal rotation of maize and rapeseed versus maize and potatoes
at restructuring. After field visits in the four provinces and discussions with the project
staff and county specialists, this cropping system is considered the most common in the
project area.

The ERR for livestock is lower than at restructuring. The cow fertility and calf mortality
have been revised to reflect the field observations. Most often and even with cross-bred
heifers, calving occurs once every two years and the newborn calves mortality rate is
actually of 1 out of 10. However, with improved practices such as a more balanced ratio
and better housing, animal husbandry should perform better in the long term. Other
benefits of livestock raising might be considered such as the maintenance of small
livestock producers to provide the local market with meat when the demand for meat
increases in the country and can hardly be fulfilled.

The ERR for renewable energy is also lower than at re-structuring. At re-structuring, the
value attributed to 1 ton of CO2 sequestrated was RMB250. The value of CO2 emission
rights which was actually close to EUR30 per ton (equivalent to approximately RMB
249) in 2008, dropped to EUR10 in 2012. In the calculation, CO2 emission rights are
valued at EUR10/ton. The ERR for renewable energy increases from 22 to 33% when
carbon sequestration is accounted as a benefit.

       Table 3: Economic internal rate of return as per activity
                                          ICR            Re-structuring   PAD
        Stone faced terrace                1%                   1%         5%
        Conservation forest           14% (16%)                20%        15%
        Earth terrace                     18%                   7%        17%
        Orchards                          17%                  12%        18%
        Livestock                         22%                  42%        22%
        Renewable energies            22% (33%)                60%        32%
       Note: in italic, ERR with carbon sequestration.



   •   Financial analysis

The financial analysis aims to evaluate the financial impact of project at household level.
It was conducted in two steps: (a) the analysis of typical cropping systems on capital land
and (b) farm models analysis.

   •   Land productivity and return to labor

In order to assess the impact of project interventions on agricultural production on capital
farmland, the analysis focused on two indicators: land productivity and return to labor.
These indicators have been calculated for typical cropping systems corresponding to
different natural (soils and climate) and socio-economic (transportation, market, distance
to cities) conditions found in the project provinces. The performances of each cropping


                                                 30
system without project (cultivation on slopes or traditional semi-terraces) are estimated
and compared to the performances of the cropping systems resulting from project
interventions “with project? (after terracing), in 2012.

Four typical cropping systems (CS) have been identified in the project area.

•   Cropping system 1 (CS1) is found in areas with poor, rocky and thin soils and
    uneven rainfall (mainly in Guizhou). Inter-annual variation in rainfall results in an
    extremely unreliable production on sloping land. Two annual cropping seasons are
    possible but the whole production might be lost in case of drought. Yields increase
    and are more stable with improved soil conditions and water retention through
    terracing. Main crops are maize (summer) and wheat and rapeseed (winter). Products
    are used on farm.
•   Cropping system 2 (CS2) is found in areas with better soil and more reliable
    rainfall conditions (mainly in Chongqing and part of Hubei). Two cropping seasons
    are possible annually. Maize is the prevalent crop together with sweet potato, broad
    beans and soya. Soil deepening and leveling result in increase in yields and allow the
    use of machinery for transportation and small tillage. Products are used on farm.
•   Cropping system 3 (CS3) is found in areas with poor soil conditions, handmade
    terraces, and uneven rainfall conditions (mainly in Yunnan). The inter-annual
    variation in rainfall results in extremely unreliable yields. Maize is cultivated in
    rotation with wheat and broad bean as winter and spring crops. Products are used on
    farm.
•   Cropping system 4 (CS4) is located in relatively better soil conditions and
    relatively favorable rainfall (mainly in Hubei). Peanuts are cultivated in summer,
    rotating with wheat and rapeseed as winter crops. Peanuts are cultivated as cash crops.

The production figures are based on average yields, taking into account the inter-annual
variations resulting from drought and other extreme climatic conditions. All data on
production costs and benefits are derived from household interviews and represent typical
farms. Information has been validated through discussions with the County and central
levels project technical staff. Overall land productivity figures have been calculated by
weighting the productivity of each cropping system by the estimated area covered.


Table 4: Productivity and return to labor on capital land
                                        Land productivity (CNY/ha)    Labor productivity (CNY/WD)
                        Estimated
                        area (ha)                           Change                          Change
  Cropping systems                  Without p.    With p.    (%)     Without p.   With p.    (%)
 1. Very poor
 conditions              2,109         7,095      11,858      67%        24         46       89%
 2. Better conditions    1,250         8,723      13,748      58%        29         54       85%
 3. Poor conditions      2,107        11,850      16,200      37%        33         53       61%
 4. Better conditions
 & cash crops            2,302        15,626      23,126      48%        35         64       85%
 Weighted average        7,768        11,175      16,679     49%         31         55       79%




                                                    31
Without project. Land productivity of grain and oil crop based systems oriented to on-
farm consumption (CS1, 2 and 3) ranges between RMB7,095 and 11,850 per hectare. As
expected, it is lower than the land productivity of the cash crop based cropping system
(CS4), which reaches RMB15,626 per hectare. Good market conditions for peanuts
explain the higher productivity of this system. The example of peanuts production in
Hubei has been chosen but such cash crops systems also occur in other provinces.

CS 2 benefits from relatively better soil and weather conditions. However, the resulting
land productivity is lower than the productivity of CS 3, which is located in poorer
conditions. This is explained by higher production costs. In such areas, farmers have
opportunities for off-farm employment. In order to free up as much labor force as
possible, farmers tend to decrease their inputs on farm: no livestock raising, therefore no
manure and no drought power. Farmers rely on the utilization of chemical fertilizers and
tillage services. In the three other systems (1, 3 and 4) animal husbandry and cropping are
closely linked with the utilization of manure as fertilizer and crop products to feed the
animals.

With project. Overall, land productivity on capital land increases from 11,175 RMB/ha
on slope land to 16,679 RMB/ha on terraces after project intervention. The most
important impact occurs in areas with poor soil conditions and uneven rainfall where land
productivity and return to labor increase respectively by 67% and 89%. Land productivity
of the grain and oil crops based systems (CS 1, 2, and 3) ranges between 12,000 and
16,000 RMB/ha. It remains low compared to a productivity of 23,000 RMB/ha for the
cash crop system (CS4). This result explains that, provided they have access to additional
support to investment from the project or other sources, farmers choose to shift to cash
crops or fruit trees on part of the terraced land.

The return to labor after project intervention ranges from 46 to 64 RMB/Work Day (WD)
which is the level of remuneration expected locally for unqualified farmers’ labor. The
increase is outstanding and reaches up to 89% for CS1. This also reflects the changes in
agricultural practices permitted after terracing and construction of village infrastructure
especially field paths. The project interventions facilitate the introduction of innovations
such as the use of machines for cultivation and transportation, but also the introduction of
innovations such as plastic mulching.

   •   Farm models analysis

The farm model analysis is based on three typical household farms. For ease of
comparison, farms have been chosen with similar cultivated land size of 15 mu (1ha)
used for annual slope land cropping of grains and oil crops in the situation without
project.

Farm 1 (F1) is located in poor, rocky and shallow soil conditions (karst area) with
uneven rainfall. It produces maize, rapeseed and wheat. Under the project, stone faced
terraces are constructed on 15 mu (1 ha) of cultivated sloping land, 3 mu (0,2 ha) of
previously highly degraded sloping land are planted with fodder crops and the household



                                            32
receives two heads of cattle (heifers - productive females) and a biogas pit. The objective
of the farm model is to increase income from agriculture.

Two scenarios are possible with project intervention:

    -    F1a: The farmer continues to cultivate 15 mu (1 ha) of grains and oil crops after
         terracing
    -    F1b: The farmer benefits from the project support to plant 4.5 mu (0.3 ha) of
         pear trees; and continues to cultivate grains and oil crops on the remaining 10.5
         mu (0.7 ha).

Farm 2 (F2) is located in an area with relatively poor soil conditions and uneven
rainfall with a high occurrence of droughts. It is a relatively remote area with limited
off-farm work opportunities. Under the project, 6 mu (0.4 ha) sloping land are terraced, 9
mu (0.6 ha) are planted in walnut, and 3 mu (0.2 ha) of very degraded sloping land are
planted with grass. The household receives two heads of cattle (heifers - productive
females) and a biogas pit. The objective of the farm model is to increase and stabilize the
income from agriculture.

Farm 3 (F3) is located in relatively better soil and rainfall conditions. Under the
project 4.5 mu (0.3 ha) of sloping land are terraced and 10.5 mu (0.7 ha) are planted with
citrus. There are opportunities for off-farm work in the area. The objective of the farm
model is to increase its labor productivity.

Without project. Without soil and water conservation intervention, the yields are
expected to go down in all farms and the vulnerability to extreme climatic conditions will
increase. As expected, the initial agricultural income varies with the natural conditions,
off-farm employment opportunities, and the strategy of the farm. The average annual
income per household is lower in areas with:
    • Very poor soil and rainfall conditions: 6,768 RMB per household farm
    • Areas with comparatively better soils and weather conditions (e.g. Chongqing par
        of Hubei) but with opportunities for off-farm employment. All households have
        migrant workers. Off-farm job is their main source of income. The households
        maintain the agricultural production to secure their livelihoods but minimize the
        time spent on farm.


Table 5: Performances of typical farms
                                     Farm 1a         Farm 1b           Farm 2            Farm 3
                                 Stone terraces,  Stone terraces,   Earth terraces,       Earth
                                    cattle and      cattle and      walnut, cattle    terraces and
                                      biogas          biogas          and biogas          citrus
                               Without pear trees With pear trees
 1. FIRR                                3%              8%               18%             21%
 2. Average annual agricultural farm income (RMB)
  Without project                     6,768            6,768            11,488           7,067
  With project                        8,995           15,561            23,434          24,538
  Change (%)                          +33%            +130%             +104%           +247%



                                               33
  3. Average annual agricultural income per capita (RMB)
   Without project                     1,692                1,692               2,872              1,767
   With project                        2,249                3,890               5,859              6,135
   Increment                           +557                +2,198              +2,987             +4,368
  4. Labor requirements (WD)
   Without project                      366                  366                 433                300
   With project                         349                  422                 484                392
   Increment                            -17                  +56                 +51                +92
  5. Return per labor day (RMB)
   Without project                       18                   18                  27                 27
   With project                          29                   39                  49                 66
  FIRR at re-structuring                                       8% to 36%*
  FIRR in PAD                                                17.2% to 41.3%
*        A range of values is given for FIRR calculated at re-structuring and appraisal (PAD). The farm
models utilized for calculation were not the same in PAD, at restructuring and in this report. Therefore, the
FIRR cannot be compared per farm model.

With project. The average agricultural incomes of all farms increase remarkably as well
as the return to labor. The increase in income and in return to labor is higher with the
introduction of fruit and nut trees. However, cultivating fruit and nut trees requests more
labor force, especially for pruning and harvesting and thus the possibilities for going for
long-term off-farm work are reduced for orchard farmers.

    •    Farm 1. The lowest increase in income is in the karst area, in case the system
         remains based on grain and oil crops production. The annual income per capita
         increases from about RMB 1,700 to RMB 2,500. This improvement brings more
         security to the household with an income slightly above the poverty line defined
         in China. The overall labor requirements decrease slightly by 17 WDs. With
         plantation of pear trees, the income per capita reaches RMB 3,890. The return to
         labor reaches RMB 49 per day, approximately the local expected daily wage for
         unskilled labor. However, with 422 WDs per year, two workers are fully occupied
         with agricultural activities and there is little scope for off-farm labor.
    •    Farm 2. The annual agricultural income increases from about RMB 2,900 up to
         RMB 5,900 per capita. Livelihood security is ensured, but the return to labor
         remains relatively low. The high labor requirements for livestock keeping and
         fruit tree production keep two persons busy full time on the farm. Incremental
         income can be expected from improved animal husbandry practices over time.
    •    Farm 3. The annual agricultural income per capita increases significantly from
         about RMB 1,800 to 6,100 through the production of citrus. Return to labor
         reaches 66 RMB per day, which is higher than the daily wages for local unskilled
         labor. The overall labor requirement increases, but is concentrated during pruning
         and harvesting seasons. One person working full time all year long on the farm
         would be sufficient with additional seasonal labor employment.




                                                    34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                        Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Ms. Anisi                 Operations Officer                   EASSD Project Management
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM Financial Management
                                                                     Agricultural/NRM
Josef Ernstberger         Consultant                            ARD
                                                                     Economics
Achim Fock                Senior Economist                     AFTAR Task Team Leader
                                                                     Irrigation/ Water Resources
Liping Jiang              Sr Irrigation Engineer               EASCS
                                                                     Management
Zong-Cheng Lin            Senior Social Development Spec       EASCS Social Safeguards
Robert Leonard O'Leary    Senior Finance Officer               CTRFC Financial Management
Li Ouyang                 Program Assistant                    EACCF Program Assistant
Margaret Png              Lead Counsel                         LEGEM Counsel
Jinan Shi                 Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPPR Procurement
Juergen Voegele           Sector Director                       ARD Task Team Leader
Da Zhu                    Senior Economist                     SASDU Economist
Supervision/ICR
Ms. Anisi                 Operations Officer                   EASSD Project Management
Wendao Cao                Rural Development Specialist         EASCS Watershed Management
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM Financial Management
                                                                     Agricultural/NRM
Josef Ernstberger         Consultant                            ARD
                                                                     Economics
Carlos Ricardo Escudero   Consultant                           LEGLA Counsel
Yiren Feng                Environmental Spec.                  EASCS Environmental Safeguards
Zong-Cheng Lin            Senior Social Development Spec       EASCS Social Safeguards
Gayane Minasyan           Sr Environmental Economist           EASER Task Team Leader
Cordula Rastogi           Transport. Economist                 ECSS5 Infrastructure Economics
Jinan Shi                 Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPPR Procurement
Artavazd Hakobyan         Consultant                            AES  Agriculture
Stefanie Sieber           Environmental Economist              EASER Environmental Economics
Sari K. Soderstrom        Sector Manager                        ENV  Task Team Leader
Zhuo Yu                   Finance Analyst                      CTRDM Financial Management
Jinmu Yuan                Consultant                           EASCS Project Management
Weiguo Zhou               Consultant                           EASER Project Management
Da Zhu                    Senior Economist                     SASDU Environmental Safeguards
Qi Zhu                    Consultant                           EAPFM Financial Management




                                                   35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                     4.05                       35.02
  FY04                                     7.23                       78.11
  FY05                                    27.43                      163.84
  FY06                                    32.21                      180.30
  FY07                                     6.90                       41.88
  FY08                                     0                           0.00
                          Total:          77.82                      499.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                    0                            0.00
  FY04                                    0                            0.00
  FY05                                    0                            1.01
  FY06                                    0                            0.00
  FY07                                   18.33                       104.16
  FY08                                   12.16                       161.50
  FY09                                   12.50                       170.78
  FY10                                   19.40                       197.51
  FY11                                   21.89                       220.78
  FY12                                   19.18                       216.26
                          Total:        103.46                     1,072




                                       36
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Project Outcomes Evaluation

1.1 Interrelation of objectives, design and implementation

In the period of project evaluation in 2005, China and the World Bank came to an
agreement on the project development goals, namely: in the poverty and serious soil
erosion areas of the Yangtze River and Pearl River Basin, taking a subwatershed as a unit
to carry out integrated control measures of soil and water conservation, through the
construction of a integrated and replicable sustainable rural development pattern, realize
the double goals of protection of the ecological environment and improvement the
livelihood. In 2009, the project mid-term restructuring largely reduced the construction
tasks. Under the this circumstance, through compressing the project implementation
scope in the project area, the management measures and project investment after
reduction are relatively concentrated in the specific subwatersheds, and keeping the
project construction goal the same is as the first principle of the mid-term restructuring
and is continued, which is never affected by the rise of construction cost and devaluation
of us dollar.

In order to ensure the implementation of project goals, the project management and the
World Bank experts design a series of available project measures for project builders to
flexibly choose according to the actual situation (construction activities).According to the
different investors and beneficiary objects of the measures, divide these measures into
common-weal and soil and water conservation measures, private-weal and livelihood
improvement measures. These measures are associated with the goal of construction
directly or indirectly. In order to strengthen the association of measures and the
construction goals in the design phase and implementation process, the project
implementation manual also mutually supports with some other measures, the combined
arrangements formulate provisions, which include:
•   Combine livestock, grass plantation and livestock (poultry) house (hut).
•   Combination of building biogas pit, building livestock houses or closing hillsides to
    facilitate afforestation;
•   Combination of repairing energy saving stove, planting firewood forest or closing
    hillsides to facilitate afforestation;
•   Combination of project construction of water system, terrace, and plantation of
    economic and fruit trees.
The quantity statistic of measures after the project completion shows that these associated
provisions of these measures are better implemented as a whole. For example, pool and
water kiln are generally matched with the terrace project, and the project design requires
that the supporting of the terrace shall no less than 4m3 per Mu of irrigation water. The
total volume of the pool and water kiln is 61000m3, with the supporting water sources of
5.1m3 per Mu; the project develops total 25002 households to cultivate cattle and pig,
builds 22362 biogas pits, with a supporting rate of 87%, which means that nearly 90% of


                                            37
the households are supported with the methane pool; the project develops 19803
households to cultivate cattle, totally 39606 heads of cattle, constructs artificial
grasslands with an area of 2525 hectares, equivalent to 37875 Mu. The cattle households
basically realize that there is average 1 Mu of fresh grass for one head of cattle, with the
addition of natural grass and ensiling, they can basically meet with the feed demand of a
cattle in a year.

1.2 The completion status of project measures and investment

1.2.1 Completion status of project amount
From the aspect of quantity, the project measures still have some differences from the
mid-term restructuring plan. Some measures meet with or exceed the original plan, and
some are lower than the original plan. One of the key principles is the bottom-up
participatory design principle of masses adopted by the project. It provides the grass-root
projects with more options and flexibility, but at the same time it exits some
contradictions with the traditional prescriptive planning control, especially that it is
unable to accurately predict the implementation results in the overall planning phase of
evaluation and mid-term restructuring and other projects. This difference is precisely the
evidence of respecting the wishes of the masses. From the aspect of implementation
effects, each key project of investment which is directly related to the project, such as
terrace, economic and fruit trees, roads, drainage system and livestock, basically reaches
the expected goal. Compared with the project mid-term restructuring plan:
In the 14 measures of public interest and soil and water conservation category, there are 5
measures that reach or exceed the original planning, they are: stone terrace, closure,
conservation tillage, filed roads, and tractor roads; the measures that are basically reach
the original planning (accounting for 80%-100%) are pond, water kiln, irrigation
channels, drainage channels and other slope river system engineering, and conservation
forest, totally 5 measures. There are 4 measures that are significantly lower than the
original planning, they are sediment trap, check dams, water supply pipeline networks,
drinking water and so on, of which the completion rate of the water supply pipeline
networks only accounts for 7% of the planning. Actually, in the 37 project counties, only
Hubei Changyang and Guizhou Bijie and so on only a few counties carry out the water
supply pipeline networks. On the one hand of the reason, the unit investment cost of the
measure is high, and on the other hand, it has a certain technological threshold for the
designers of water and soil conservation. Human animal diversion is not for soil and
water conservation technical personnel are familiar with, and relates to a diversion safe,
project implementation manual for the measure of the design, approval, construction and
quality standards to make the comparison of strict rules, some have been incorporated
into the plan of Engineering in the stage of implementation cannot perform.
In the 10 measures of private interests and livelihood improvement category, there are 6
measures that meet with or exceed the original planning, they are land terrace, economic
and fruit trees, grass plantation, common cattle, sheep cultivation, and pig cultivation;
there are 4 measures that fails to meet with the original planning, they are crossbred cattle
cultivation, biogas pit, energy saving stove and the EU grants to support the poor
households. The breeding of crossbred cattle didn’t be achieved, but the summation result


                                             38
of the common cattle has basically reached the original planning; that the biogas pit
didn’t reach the planning is largely because the national rural energy project is anterior to
the biogas pit built by the World Bank to help the targeted households, therefore, it can’t
be continued to arranged; energy saving stove lost its functions as the introduction of
biogas pits and many households has largely reduced the usage of traditional firewood
stove; the low completion rate of EU grants mainly has two reasons: firstly, there is short
of explicit operability provisions of the usage of this part of funds in each provincial
financial manual; secondly, both the World Bank and the EU didn’t agree that Chongqing
and Guizhou where the households loans have been promised to relieve continue to use
the money.
In the technical support category, measures are generally better completed, and controlled
in the expected level. The 61% of total monitoring expenditure was spent, since that,
according to the division of labor, the project monitoring and evaluations are mainly
undertaken by the CPIO. The local project offices have also been distributed a small
amount of loans to develop typical farmers and plot survey, but as the tasks aren’t clear,
this work doesn’t been developed. In the mid-term project implementation in 2010, the
state cancelled the related charges of the water conservancy project quality supervision.
Therefore, the investment completion rate of this measure is low.

1.2.2 Completion status of investment
Until present, the project has basically completed the construction investment. The
completed investment and quantity of each measure is the accumulative total of the
completed results before and after the mid-term adjustment. As there are two sets of
different unit prices implemented before and after the mid-term adjustment, the
completed ratio of investment and the quantity of investment have a certain difference,
but they coincide basically. The completed results of investment show that the completed
status of the investment of the three big measure classes has small discrepancy with the
mid-term restructuring planning; water and soil conservation for public interests totally
accounts for 44.3% of the total investment, which is slightly lower than 45% in the mid-
term restructuring planning; livelihood improvement measures for private interests
account for 46.4% of the total investment, which is slightly higher than the 44.9% in the
mid-term restructuring planning; the measures of technical support account for 9.4%,
which is slightly lower than the 10.1% in the mid-term restructuring planning. It means
that, from the aspect of overall situation of the investment completion, they have realized
the purpose of balance of public interests and private interests in the project investment
established by the evaluation and the mid-term adjustment. The measures whose
completed project investment has the maximum proportion in the total investment are:
economic and fruit trees, 23.1%; stone terrace, 15.5%; livestock (breeding of cattle, pig
and sheep), total 11.8%; stone terraces, 6.9%; conservation forest, 5.3%; tractor roads,
5%; field road, 3.4%.According to the further statistics, the total completed investment of
the measures that meet with or exceed the investment planning of the mid-term
restructuring accounts for 70% of the total investment, and 77% of the total project
investment. While the total completed investment of the measures that are lower than
70% of the investment planning of the mid-term restructuring accounts for 7.7% of the
total investment, and 8.5% of the total project investment. The above analysis shows that,



                                             39
the completed investment of single measure has a certain discrepancy with the mid-term
adjustment, but it is overall in the control range.

1.3 Achievement status of project construction goals


According to the monitoring conclusion of the evaluation reports at the end of the project
and related statistical results of each county project office, the evaluation results of
monitoring index in the project agreement are shown in Table 3-5.

1.4 General Evaluation to Project Implementation

From 2002 to 2005, we have gone through 4 years of project preparation. From 2006 to
2012, we have gone through 6 years of project construction. Project construction is
almost complete. Integrated management of mountain, water, farm land and forest has
been done in sub-watershed area. And all ecologic, economic and social effects are
showing, all indexes are normal or exceeding our expectation. People’s sense of eco-
protection and ability of future operation have been improved; PMOs at all levels are
more capable of implementing water and soil conservation projects. Their technical and
administrative ability have improved a lot. The development goal has been achieved

1.4.1 Production and living infrastructures have been improved apparently.
Terraces canal suit completely. Terraces project fits water storage volume 5.1 m3for each
acre. Calculated according to multi-storage index 300%, water for irrigation for each acre
can reach 15 m3, which is enough for dry years. Terraces project fits 127 m irrigation
canal each acre, field path 163m, tractor road 127 m. this makes irrigation and
transportation much easier for HHs. Solved problem of water shortage for 12266 HHs.
Water channeling in these areas has been improved greatly.22478 biogas pits and fuel
saving stoves are built. This replaced conventional wood cutting for HH in places far
away and supplements the promotion of biogas pit in villages by rural energy department.
This provides clean energy solution for project area.

1.4.2 Land is more reasonably used and this gives power to the future development of
economic and society.
In project area, slope farmland above 5° is reduced from 129 thousand ha before
implementation to 79 thousand ha after implementation. Nearly 50 thousand ha are
changed to step farmland, economic trees or grass land. Reduction ratio 39%. 5°-25°slope
farmland is reduced from 119 thousand ha before implementation to 76 thousand ha,
reduction ratio 37%. Slope farmland above 25° is reduced 65% from 9502ha before
implementation to 3322ha. Basic farmland less than 5°increased from 36 thousand ha
before implementation to 46 thousand ha, with a net increase of 27%. Farmland per
person has been increased from 1.29 acre to 1.37 acre. Economic tree area has been
increased from 12 ha before implementation to 45 ha， with a net increase of 287%.
Economic tree area per person has been increased by 0.5 ha. Barren Mountain and Slope
area has been reduced from 289 km2 before implementation to 81 km2, with a reduction


                                            40
rate of 72%. Forest area has been increased from 1997 km2 before implementation to
2245 km2, with a net increase of 12%; grass land area has been increased from 62 km2 to
96 km2, with a net increase of 54%; forest and grass coverage rate has been improved
from 40% before implementation to 45%.

1.4.3 Water and soil loss in project area has been reduced greatly. Ecological environment
has been improved greatly.
Area of Soil and Water Erosion has been reduced from 2605 km2 to 1230 km2, by
52%.Soil Erosion index has been reduced from 2784 t/(km2·a) to 1357 t/(km2·a), which
means water and soil erosion intensity has been changed from medium to light. When all
the measures function, sediment flow to the downstream will be reduced by 2560
thousand ton. 1030 million m3 Water flow over surface will be reserved, which is equal
to a volume of a big reservoir.

1.4.4 Self management capacity of fundamental organization and project HHs has been
improved greatly.
In the process of project implementation, local authorities and PMO changed positively.
They enhanced organization management and negotiation and pushed the participation of
public in the project construction and future management. They also coordinate the
responsibility, right and obligation among governments at all levels, department in-
charge and beneficiary public in the project. Establish transparent, practical policy and
regulations. Respect the will of public and combine the technical support from
departments. Aim at sustainable Water and soil conservation ecological benefits and
development of public living. Encourage and attract publics. Especially the participation
of rural basic level and beneficiary in the process of project planning, construction and
managements and make them benefit from the project. Ensure the benefit of public
especially the weak group on the base of equality and justice. Through technical training,
make the local people responsible for project construction and management. Put effort to
establish village organization and train beneficiaries with self-management to develop
themselves. 1. Promote Participatory Design of sub-watershed area to enhance the
decision making scheme of villages; 2. Community procurement will make village
community the mail role in project construction, including measure selection,
construction organization, construction management and examination upon delivery. Let
them master skills such as procurement, financial management, process and quality
control, documentation and so on. 3. Through diverse, intensive training, help
beneficiaries to master project construction techniques and operation and administrative
abilities in the future. According to statistics from PMO, headcount of HHs participate in
project construction and measure management is nearly 230 thousand. (See the Table
below for details).

2. Project Lessons and Problem Discussions

2.1 Main Experiences

2.1.1 Adhering to the Overall Project Objectives to Carry out the Project Construction and
Management


                                            41
At the beginning of the approval of CPRWRP, primary objectives of the project building
are to protect the ecological environment, increase people’s income, and improve
people’s livelihoods, with the emphasis on the principle of protecting ecology through
increasing income, benefiting the public through the ecology in the measures layout,
insisting on the measures collocation between the private and public interests, adhering
to the close matching between the drinkability for livestock and irrigation for grass and
the integrated management of soil erosion of mountains, water, fields, forests and roads,
giving attention to coordinately playing the long-term, mid-term and short-term
effectiveness. Adher to a balance budget for the construction costs on the investment
system, carry out the different financing options according to different beneficiaries of
the project measures, and mobilize the positivity of all levels of government and
beneficiaries to integrate resources to carry out the project construction so as to lead a
road of sustainable and promotable construction development.

2.1.2 Implementing Strict, Normal and Standardized Project Management
During the project implementation, the CPIO absorbed successful experience of project
management from other World Bank Projects, in the form of a project implementation
manual, it specified the many management aspects, such as project design, project
planning, project procurement, construction organizing, measures quality, inspection and
acceptance etc. Such project implementation manual with so broad coverage, so specific
provisions, and so rich samples is not often seen in other soil and water conservation
projects. The introduction of the project implementation manual helped grass-roots
PMOs clarify the tangle between domestic capital construction program and the World
Bank’s management style. And in accordance with the manual, IT staff developed the
county-level project management modules and soon put them to use, which taking
measure spots as the minimum management unit, realized interrelated and automatic
summarizing of various information of project design, procurement, contract
management, acceptance, and fund payment, and greatly optimized and simplified the
workflow. The initiative practice of routinization and automization of management
system greatly shortened the project preparation cycle, and significantly improved the
management efficiency, which becomes the main tool for PMOs at various levels to carry
out the project management, and also wins widespread recognition and appreciation of
supervision departments such as the Development and Reform Commission, finance
sector and audit department.

2.1.3 Implementing Public Participation
At the beginning of the project setup, the World Bank and the Chinese side both
recognized that various undertakings in rural areas are undergoing profound changes with
the continued deepening the reform of grassroots democracy in rural areas, industrial
structure adjustment of agriculture and land management changes, coupled with the
transfer of rural labor, a large number of relocation of rural population, and the
improvement of HHs’ self-awareness. Firstly, after the rural land contract, especially
after the forest tenure reform, most of the project measures involve HHs own land, which
shall be implemented after obtaining their consent and support first.Secondly, under the
background of farmers’ compulsory labor being cancelled and continuing increase of the
opportunity cost of migrant workers, the rural labor force is in great short, which often


                                           42
makes it difficult to realize the labor investing for the project financing, needing a lot of
careful propaganda and patient persuasion from the grassroots PMOs.Thirdly, seeing
from the implementation effect, only when the related HHs are involved in the whole
process of project planning, construction and acceptance, can the quality of the project be
ensured, and the follow-up management and protection be implemented, so as to achieve
maximum efficiency and sustainability.Fourthly, in the remote and backward project
areas, the implementation of the participatory method is not only able to take into account
of the interests of the disadvantaged masses ensuring fairness and justice, but also more
importantly, help the masses broaden their visions and enhance the awareness and
capacity of village grass-roots organization for the management of public resources, so as
to boost sustained development. While at present, the system of construction
management of domestic soil and water conservation projects, which implements bidding
to select construction companies to carry out the construction, is not able to adapt to the
changes in the above situation, whether from the implementation effects or from the
sustainability of post-effectiveness, and thus face huge challenges.It requires that starting
from the top-level design of the CPRWRP, the public shall be more closely relied on with
the broad participation of beneficiaries especially
In the process of project implementation, we adhere to the principle of participation by
the masses in all aspects of the management. At the preliminary design stage, the project
content and the favorable terms of various measures were posted for publicity; When
designed on site, HHs representatives were invited as the members of the design team in
order to participate in the program development, and each HH of the project areas was
visited for collecting willingness; after drafting of the programme, convened the meetings
of the masses to amend the programme on the basis of the result of the votes of the
masses, then publicized the modified programme, and provided the clarifying-cards to the
HHs who didn’t have objections, specifying national project subsidies, their personal
responsibilities and obligations in the project construction, and loan arrangements etc. At
the stage of open tender for procurement and community-based procurement contract
negotiation, HHs representatives were invited to monitor and participate in the bid
evaluation and contract negotiations. At the stage of construction, the majority of
investment projects were constructed by the HHs collectively, the quality of the project
was controlled by the PMO technical staff through technical services and supervision. As
for the construction project undertaken by the construction team, HHs representatives
were invited as the supervisors, implementing quality supervision. During the project
acceptance, engineering fund for each measure was settled after HHs representatives and
beneficiaries signing for approval. The above methods effectively enhanced the
autonomy and sense of ownership for the community and the masses, greatly mobilized
the project HHs to participate in the project investment, and the invested labor’s
positivity to participate in the project, and effectively cut down the non-constructive
project costs.

2.1.4 Center on informatization construction, and improving project management efficiency.
For project areas are distributed in different remote areas such as Yunnan, Guizhou,
Chongqing and Hubei, construction projects are complicated, and project execution
procedures are relatively complex. The World Bank and the Chinese project supervision
departments, in the project preparation period of designing project management mode,


                                             43
will depend on management information system to improve the efficiency of
management. The primary ability aim is to ensure the opened and transparent process of
project implementation, which incorporates into the project feasibility research report and
overall preliminary design. After the close collaboration and persistent efforts of system
development personnel and PMOs at all levels, the concept of the operation of
information management system comes true, playing an important role in every phase of
project implementation. It greatly improves the integration of quality and efficiency of
management, to greatly enhance the efficiency of management.

In the preliminary stage of project design, after users of CPMOs input (or import) spots
information, unit price, financing information, etc., the system can generate a full set of
preliminary design statements for the users in line with the provisions of the World
Bank’s management, including: spots registration table, land use and planning table,
status quo table of soil and water loss, engineering measures and planning table
(classified according to engineering type), measures summary and investment table,
etc.When users compile the report of preliminary design, they only need to finish the rest
of paper work, and then results can be output.

In the stage of detailed design, after people input information of HHs and assign
measures to HHs respectively, the system can generate a kind of card showing HHs’
subsidy standards clearly, for the convenience of subsequent publicity and recording.

In the stage of project implementation, users can make use of system to pack the
measures, so as to generate procurement plan meeting the requirements of the World
Bank. The more important is that the management of project schedule through the system
can greatly improve the efficiency of PMOs at all levels. Take for instance the
management of measure progress and capital progress: in the traditional management
mode, to generate an acceptance note, users need to search the quantity of measures,
beneficiaries, measure distribution of s beneficiaries, etc. according to measure No. in the
spreadsheet, and fill all information in the blank acceptance note. Through information
system, users can automatically get batches of acceptance notes according to measure No.
(Or classifications of measure, its administrative districts and many kinds of conditions),
so as to save a great deal of manual power.

After the completion of acceptance, users can input all information of acceptance note
into the system. The system can automatically count measures progress of project and
completion progress of capital. CPMOs can export progress information from CPMOs’
system, and import the system of progress summary. This system can count up them and
generate progress reports at all levels of county, city, province and project area, which
leave out statistical summary and tabulation required by the traditional mode of step-by-
step submission.

In the stages of project supervision and evaluation, supervision personnel can sample
measures from the system, make on-site investigation. After inputting survey data, they
can adopt the system to calculate the benefits of loss reduction automatically.




                                            44
In the stage of completion and acceptance of total project, adding bits of information can
generate all acceptance reports specified in the acceptance documents.

MIS of project is successfully applied to such a large extent and at different levels, which
is praised as the first case in China agricultural projects by the World Bank’s experts. It is
worth reference and popularization in other project.

2.2 Problems and Discussion

2.2.1 Rely on and strengthen the ability of village-based organizations to organize the
project self-management, further improve the methods of public participation, and enhance
the efficiency of project implementation.
Although public participation brings about many positive factors in the realization of
project construction goal, it also produces a lot of difficulties for engineering construction
and project fund management, and even risks. In many places, public participation is not
a master key to solve all problems. Generally speaking, village-based organizations and
project HHs are lack of knowledge and practice of modern engineering management
system. Some are short of able person, democratic decision-making mechanism and
appeal. In these places, on the contrary, promoting public participation will bring about a
major hidden danger in engineering construction and fund security. In addition, the
PMOs’ staffs confront the HHs and carry on publicity and design work. In fact, this
operation is too idealistic to achieve good effect. Implementation of public participation
must closely rely on the rural grassroots organization at the level of village community.
From the point of view of reality, the rural grassroots organization at the level of village
community is an effective platform of resources integration of project construction. Only
this level organization can learn much about the demands of local infrastructure and HHs;
be familiar with the local village situations well; be best able to attract and organize
construction investment, including social resources, through public participation; most
likely ensure the sustainable role of project follow-up benefits. A basic work of the
implementation of public participation to at first be carried out is to build up the ability of
rural grassroots organization and to promote the realization of self-management and
development.

2.2.2 Conditionally, implement management mode of large contracting HHs.
In over a decade, with the relaxation of land leasing policy, the reform of forest
ownership and large quantities of outward employment of rural labor, there are emerging
large land contracting HHs all over the country. The hilly areas mainly develop the
forestry and fruit industry. They built the contiguous high-standard orchards intensively,
water reservoir, intercepting drain and other supporting facilities, objectively, which are
beneficial to soil and water conservation. In the process of construction and operation,
local villagers are mainly hired for work, so that they make double profits from land
leasing and labor services. In the activities of the realization of rural production and
operation, large land contracting HHs have become important social power. Some places
focus on ensuring the quality of project and later benefits, through the support of large
HHs, spurring the control of soil and water loss in an area or region. There is no ground
for blame for this kind of practice itself, but in some places, the operation become simple


                                              45
in form, resulting in sacrificing potential development opportunities of small HHs. On the
contrary, that impairs public participation, and public resources cannot realize its own
general favorable value. In view of this contradiction, we think it is not appropriate to just
simply depend on and to reject the participation of large HHs in the project. When project
is intended to support large HHs, part of public fund investment can be regarded as the
contractor’s equity for the participation in the profit sharing, which becomes a regulation,
so that large HHs can be taken in construction and management. So, individual investors
are assured that they can benefit from project investment.

2.2.3 Improve the World Bank’s management methods and procedures of project
construction, to further enhance the efficiency of management.
Firstly, reform the current accounting method of construction cost, incorporating
construction cost of grassroots ability and management fee of late construction in certain
years into the cost; secondly, reform project design and approval system, i.e. preliminary
sub-watershed design and approval are changed into two times of approvals and
simplification of preliminary sub-watershed design, highlighting the macro control and
the part approval of the provincial competent authorities. Technical construction design
shall be organized by villages, for the approval of county-level competent authorities.
Project construction contents, fund payment and audit are based on the technical
construction design, to give village organizations and HHs to more autonomous rights
and flexibility; and thirdly, reform the bidding system of project construction, i.e. the
project, which the village-level organization has the ability to implement, should be
entrusted to implement in the way of agreement; Fourthly. Regard engineering benefit as
the goal, proposing the appraisal system of work performance, according to the principle
of selecting the superior ones to support, carrying the competition mechanism of project;
Fifthly, adjust the disbursement policy World Bank, allowing annual loan limit of
engineering construction plan as base number. Make provision of 30% of loan as
engineering advance payment, which shall be allocated to every project county as the
initial capital, to relieve the pressure of engineering initial capital of CPMOs.




                                             46
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from the European Commission (EC)

The CPRWRP was co-financed by the EC with a grant of 10 million Euros aimed at
providing additional financial support to the poor households in the project area. The
grant was designed to co-fund the private interest measures of the project as well as to
off-set part of the WB loan repayment obligations for the poorest households (grant
option for the poor). This special financial support, together with the participatory design
features of the project, have resulted in a remarkable project outreach with a larger
proportion of poor household benefiting from the action in the targeted sub-watershed.
The involvement of such a large number of beneficiaries has been at the core of the
project’s effectiveness in achieving its objectives.

In addition to the grant, the EC deployed long and short term experts to assist the PMOs
in implementing and monitoring the project as well it made available further financial
resources for capacity building and awareness raising activities. These resources were
channeled through the EU-China River Basin Management Programme (RBMP)
(http://euchinarivers.org/en ), a stand-alone cooperation action aimed at enhancing
integrated water resources management and protection in China by sharing the
experience gained over 30 years of formulation and implementation of successful
common EU water policy. High level technical expertise was provided in the areas of soil
and water conservation, participatory planning and design, M&E, procurement and
financial management as well as impact evaluation. On these subjects a wide range of
training and awareness raising material, as well as promotion booklets and video
documentations have been produced.

As per the quality and relevance of project design, the EC joined forces with the WB and
the GoC, recognising the innovative approach of combining watersheds rehabilitation and
livelihoods improvement measures along with participatory project design and
management. The project’s design was and remains consistent with the Chinese national
policies as well with the cooperation priorities identified in the EC’s Country Strategy
Paper for China for the period 2007-2013. CPRWRP’s objectives are also still relevant to
the current EU-China Strategic Partnership, where a continued emphasis has been put on
sustainable water management and water security with the launch in 2012 of the China
Europe Water Platform (http://www.cewp.org). However, cooperation modalities are
being changed and are now based on mutual interest, benefit and funding.

Project’s objectives have been largely achieved as specified by the five outcome and
impact indicators. Other valuable benefits have been produced in terms of increased
capacity of PMOs staff to implement integrated watershed approaches and participatory
methods as well as innovative project management and monitoring techniques. In this
respect, the EC is particular proud of the contribution given for the development of the
computerized/web-based MIS, which brings project management and monitoring to an
unprecedented transparency and quality of supervision.




                                            47
The management and supervision of the project is to be considered satisfactory
considering the complexity of implementing such a project involving different sources of
funding, new financial, procurement and reporting procedures, innovative technical
approaches, as well as challenging vertical and horizontal institutional coordination
issues. More timely and proactive intervention would have further increased the
effectiveness of the project particularly for issues related to the EC’s grant utilization (e.g.
delayed implementation of the grant option for the poor and delays in the disbursement of
EC grant).

Overall the EC shares the ICR’s assessment in the various dimensions of project
performance, and believes that the EC’s support has well complemented the resources
and expertise made available by the WB and the Chinese Government, providing a good
evidence of the effectiveness of blending loans with grants and technical assistance.




                                              48
Annex 7 (additional). Management Information System (MIS)

The MIS under the project was developed gradually. Initially the project used a set of
maps showing coded project activities combined with tables recording quantities, which
could then be aggregated from sub-watershed to county, province and project levels.

In 2008 during updating of the sub-watershed Participatory Design Manual, it became
clear that the production of the 25 tables for the design report, transparency cards and
farmer loan agreements became a major task for the county staff. To reduce their
workload the RBMP experts, in close consultation with the county staff, set out to
develop a desktop based sub-watershed Design Tool. Producing the transparency cards
and the loan agreements, which previously took 10-15 minutes per household could now
be done by clicking the “print all? button, saving staff some 30 working days per sub-
watershed.

  Figure 1. Overview map and graphs of CPRWRP MIS map-linked interface




In a next step the MIS was extended to produce progress reports by uploading of county
data to a central database, and design of a reporting interface to print uniform progress
reports at sub-watershed, county, prefecture, province and project levels for submission
to MWR, WB and EU.

The new MIS became rapidly accepted, as it was able to produce instant bilingual
overviews of the project situation at any given time. The only condition for having up-to-



                                           49
date reports is that the county staff regularly enters their data, which they did as it helped
them to produce their progress reports.

Finally the project developed a map-linked interface enabling on-line and real-time
access to a set of pre-programmed graphs and tables of key data. This enabled the MWR,
WB and EU to monitor real time project progress even from offices in Beijing and
Washington. A set of charts (see Figure 2) also made it much easier to spot, which
activities or counties were lagging behind or which might be exceeding the targets.

Finally the RBMP expert developed a checking tool which allowed accurate location in
the field in sub-watersheds with geo-referenced and digitized maps, using PC tablets or
smart phones. This includes the opportunity to immediately up-load, at the site, geo-
referenced information (e.g. photos from project activities, status of crops, good practice
examples, notes about issues, minutes of recommendations, etc.).

In summary, the main advantages of the CPRWRP MIS are:

1.   Easy to produce, uniform and reliable progress and constantly up-to-date reporting at
     sub-watershed, county, prefecture, province and project levels

2.   A map-linked interface providing on-line and real-time access to the MIS database at
     any location with a cell phone or internet connection with map-linked quantitative or
     graphical figures of progress plus a set of the most important analytical tools

3.   A GPS-linked mobile tracking system using smart phones or tablets, allowing
     accurate location (e.g. actual position or tracking of routes) on digitized sub-
     watershed maps and offering the option to directly up-load geo-referenced notes,
     recommendations and photos based on field observations.

Figure 2. Overview of CPRWRP treated areas, participating households and
procurement methods




                                             50
Figure 3. Using the checking tool in the field (inserts: sub-watershed map on tablet
and reporting screen on smart phone).




                                          51
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

•   Changjiang and Pearl River Watershed Rehabilitation Project Appraisal Document,
    2006;
•   Aide memoires, and ISRs;
•   Borrower’s Draft Completion Report
•   Technical Report 083 - CPRWRP Financial and Economic Analysis
•   Technical Report 088 - Projections of future carbon sequestration in the CPRWRP
•   Changjiang and Pearl River Watershed Rehabilitation Project (CPRWRP), End-term
    Soil Erosion Report
•   Various monitoring and evaluation reports prepared by SOCAD and the Expert
    Assessment Team;




                                        52
Map – IBRD 33735




                   53
Map – IBRD 33736




                   54
